madam president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate you, madam president, on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i am very happy to do so personally, because we have been working together in a spirit of trust and friendship in the european parliament since 1984. i wish you, madam president, all the success you yourself expect and wish for, and which we all wish for this parliament. when you gave up your presidency in strasbourg in may, during the last week of the session, you said: 'i am now closing this session. it is the last time i have chaired a sitting here as vice-president! you were there - and that was a unique event for me and for everyone else - and you received a big round of applause, and everyone stood up, as is usually the case with presidents. so we can say today, wherever we are in this house, if there is political justice, especially here in this european parliament, then that political justice has become a reality with the election of nicole fontaine as president of the european parliament! jean monnet once said: 'nothing is possible without people, nothing lasts without institutions'. the european parliament has come a long way from 1979 to now, and we have the right person in nicole fontaine to continue to carry the competences, the powers and the dignity of this parliament into a good future. i wish nicole fontaine every success and good luck, and she will always be able to count on the strongest group in this house to have put forward this proposal, which was her political duty and democratically necessary! i would also like to pay tribute to mário soares. he is a great portuguese personality and, mr president soares, you prevented portugal from going from one dictatorship to another in the 1970s. you are a great statesman, a great european, and although we were unable to vote for you, we have great respect for you! (applause from the centre and the right) heidi hautala we have worked well together in the last few days, and one of the signs of that good cooperation is that you, as chairman of the green group, are sitting in the front row, as is the chairman of the liberals, pat cox. let us continue to work in this spirit of openness and fairness and, despite all the differences in personnel policy today - this is normal in a democracy - let us be on the same page and push forward the unification of europe! i hope that is the case for you, madam president, and for all of us. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i can confirm what mr barón crespo said on this point. i have, however, come to the conclusion that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the fifth item is the formation of the political groups. i would like to inform you that our group will be known as the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) /european democrats. i ask you to consider that. i would also like to take into account - and this is well known - that our group is now the largest group in parliament. i would ask that this be taken into account on the monitors and other technical equipment. (applause from the centre)
council. – (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to meet the newly-elected european parliament today and extend my congratulations to you all, and particularly you, madam president fontaine, on your election. at the beginning of the german presidency, the european union took a historic step when it introduced the single currency, i.e. the euro. in january, i declared here in the european parliament that the federal government considered the rationale behind the introduction of the euro to represent further steps towards achieving full integration, and that germany would spare no effort in attempting to bring this about. i said that we considered it important to make the structural and procedural preparations needed to transform a union of western european countries into a truly pan-european union which would, at the same time, have power to act in matters of foreign policy and security, and which must therefore be more democratic too. today, six months on, we can see that the progress made in these three main areas relating to integration has fulfilled our expectations. this progress is closely associated with the two crises that the european union has had to contend with over the last six months. the resignation of the commission, the outbreak of war in kosovo and the european council in berlin all coincided, putting the eu"s power to act to the test in a dramatic way at a particularly critical moment in time. the eu member states maintained not only unity and their power to act during this extremely difficult period, but also displayed considerable creative genius. they turned the crisis to good account as an incentive to achieve further integration. the reason for this is that the war in kosovo served to highlight again that the essence of european integration is to establish a lasting framework for peace on our continent. this insight resulted in an awareness of the degree to which the national interests of individual member states are interconnected, and in a readiness throughout europe to take a decisive step forward in the historic task of bringing european integration to fruition. in this way, the crisis has accelerated the process of integration. the step forward we have taken in the course of the last few months is above all a success shared by all member states and european union institutions. i should therefore like to thank the european parliament today for fulfilling its responsibility to extraordinarily good effect during this difficult period. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should now like to take a few moments to sum up the main events of the german presidency and then look at the prospects for the future. firstly, there has been an increase in the ability of the eu to act in matters of foreign and security policy. the eu is now an international player holding considerable sway. nothing rendered this more apparent than the belgrade mission undertaken by president ahtisaari and the russian envoy to kosovo, mr chernomyrdin. the contribution they made towards bringing the kosovo conflict to a peaceful conclusion has enabled the civil might of the eu to take a major step in the direction of a common foreign policy. unlike 1991/92, the eu pursued a common line in the balkans this time, which can be explained by the fact that the european states had at last recognised that it was not just about moral duty or the future of a region on the periphery of europe, but about their own security, indeed our collective security. in europe, there is just one single, indivisible kind of security; that is, the logical conclusion we can draw from our experience of the tragedy in kosovo. if we had stood idly by in the face of bloodthirsty, aggressive nationalism on our continent, then ultimately the fate of european integration itself, the greatest achievement in recent european history, would have been placed in jeopardy. we could not and would not allow this to happen. (applause) the kosovo conflict has propagated two important ideas in the eu. firstly, south-eastern europe is now widely and unreservedly accepted as being part of europe. this led to the stability pact being adopted, a subject i shall return to later. secondly, the member states have hardened in their resolve finally to give shape to a common foreign and security policy. against this background it has been possible to present a united front to china and the near east in terms of human rights policy and many other difficult foreign policy issues, and ultimately to reach a number of important decisions in cologne, which included adopting the first common strategy towards russia and a timetable for achieving a european security and defence policy, as well as nominating javier solana as the best possible candidate for the post of mr cfsp. the european union"s importance as an international player has also become evident at the numerous interregional conferences such as the latin american summit in rio, the mediterranean conference held in stuttgart, a platform which can now gain considerably in importance against the background of a new peace dynamic, the asem in berlin and many other meetings. secondly, the berlin decisions on agenda 2000 have secured the european union the power to act for the next few years. if we had failed to reach agreement there, and consider what it would have meant, if the berlin meeting had finished with no compromise having been reached at a time when the kosovo war was just beginning and the commission was in a state of crisis, then europe would have been plunged into a serious, historic crisis. agenda 2000 contained a sheaf of reform initiatives and huge national interests of a kind unknown hitherto in the history of european integration. the fact that it proved possible to reconcile these issues in one great compromise was because major member states, not least of which germany, refrained from pushing to achieve the most they could for their own countries, come what may, and instead made the further development of europe a priority. certainly, the federal german government would have liked to have seen more progress in many areas, for example in agricultural policy, where, following the wto round, it will be soon be essential to take further reform measures. but, all in all, the compromise is still an excellent foundation on which to lead the union into the 21st century. thirdly, agenda 2000 will also foster opportunities for the enlargement of the european union. the success of the berlin compromise can in fact be measured in terms of the extremely positive reactions displayed by the applicant states. the negotiations for accession have also made good progress over the last six months. we now undertake negotiations in more than half of all the capital cities. moreover, when we decided in cologne to have a new intergovernmental conference on institutional affairs, we seized the opportunity that will enable us to soon overcome the second large internal hurdle facing the enlargement process. as a result, the historic project of enlargement has made considerable progress in terms of pace and quality. fourthly, at the time of the dispute that led to the resignation of the commission, the european parliament fulfilled the responsible role expected of it by the people of europe. i regard this as the beginning of a process that will lead to more a pronounced democratisation of the union. the nomination of romano prodi as the new president of the commission was a very rapid reaction on the part of the eu states to the resignation of the commission. i should like, at this juncture, to wish romano prodi and the new commission a great deal of luck and every success as they embark on the great tasks ahead of them. in adopting the code of conduct the new commission has already sent out an important signal intended to regain the citizens" trust, a good start. however, i should also like today to again address particular thanks to the old commission and all its staff for their work. despite any criticism levied at certain individuals, we should not forget one thing, and that is that without the commission"s hard work and commitment, we would not have been able to solve the numerous and difficult problems, and not least those encountered during the german presidency. (applause) my fifth point is that the employment pact agreed in cologne makes it possible, at the european level, to pursue our goal of supplementing and strengthening national efforts to create more employment. the pact improves the conditions necessary to achieve an active employment policy in both a national and european context. the macro-economic dialogue agreed on in cologne, with the involvement of the two sides of industry and the european central bank, will make an important contribution to this process. we should therefore take stock of the situation for the first time at the employment summit to be held during the portuguese presidency. ladies and gentlemen, in the period that lies before us we should use the dynamic that has emerged over the last six months from the tension between the exigencies of crisis and those of reform, to take further steps towards integration. we must make progress in five key areas. the first of these is that our experience of the kosovo conflict must lead to a speeding-up of the enlargement process. the agenda for the european council in helsinki includes decisions that will point the way. two questions of central importance will be discussed, the first being which additional applicant states the eu is to enter into negotiations with. it has been evident for a long time now that several of the states not yet at the negotiating stage have made considerable progress in terms of reform and this should be shown due appreciation in helsinki. it should also be made clear that any candidate fulfilling the copenhagen criteria is entitled to enter into accession negotiations. the second question which will need to be addressed is that of a target date for concluding negotiations with the first candidates. numerous idealistic proposals have been made, but as yet we have no foundation worthy of consideration on which to base a realistic date. however, a foundation of this kind will be created for the first time in helsinki, when the full results of the screening and the commission"s new progress reports are made known. it is therefore my fervent hope that it will be possible to fix a date in december. personally, i feel that we must fix the date in december. this would send out a signal of enormous importance in terms of the future dynamics of the reform process as well as those of the accession negotiations. unfortunately, it has not been possible, over the last six months, to bring about any substantial improvement in turkey"s status vis-a-vis the european union. germany"s proposal to designate turkey an applicant state and to assess it in accordance with the same copenhagen criteria as applied to the other candidates, did not meet with agreement in cologne, but this issue remains on the agenda. it is important that turkey should draw up a timetable for implementing the copenhagen criteria. it is essential that turkey fulfil these criteria if it is to enter into accession negotiations. my second point is that if an enlarged union is to retain its ability to negotiate then it is essential that the three institutional questions that remained open in amsterdam, namely the size and composition of the commission, vote weighting in the council, and extending majority voting, are clarified in good time and comprehensively before enlargement takes place. in any case, this is in the interests of the applicant states. we should therefore make every available effort to adhere to the timetable for institutional reform agreed on in cologne and to complete the package of reforms in the year 2000 under the french presidency. however this will require the will and support of all member states. thirdly, the end of the fourth, and hopefully last, yugoslavian war of succession in kosovo and the agreement of the stability pact mean that for the first time in its history, south-eastern europe now has a real opportunity to break with nationalism and violence forever and draw closer to an integrated europe. reconciliation was able to take place in western europe after 1945 and so it can in the balkans today, provided that it is possible to root out the hatred and violence of nationalism there too. for this to be achieved, it is important that the european union should make the securing of peace in south-eastern europe a priority in peacetime too. reconstruction in kosovo and the eu"s central role in giving impetus to the stability pact mean that it carries more responsibility, also in material terms. equally though, in the long-term this represents a major and exceptional opportunity for the union and its national economies which we should embrace with determination. economic co-operation will be a decisive factor in the stabilisation of south-eastern europe. germany supports additional proposals for creating a regional trade and customs union with the aim of forming a free-trade zone which ought, if possible, to be linked with the european union. a stable economic framework of this kind would also be of great benefit to outside investment. however, the most important goal is to create stable conditions for democracy and rule of law throughout the balkans. the key to the lasting stabilisation of the region will be the democratisation of serbia. (applause) this is a question which the serbian people must decide for themselves. nevertheless, as far as the european union and its member states are concerned, we must do everything to strengthen democracy in serbia and weaken milosevic. it is precisely at this time, when courageous demonstrations are taking place throughout the country, that we must show the serbian people that they can count on the full support of the european union when it comes to the democratisation of their country. (applause) our experiences over the past few months show that europe also needs to be better organised in terms of security and defence policy if it wishes to be able to manage future crises effectively by itself. the cologne decisions on the creation of a european security and defence union have far-reaching implications. this area of policy must be the european union"s next large project for integration, after the internal market and economic and monetary union. consequently, the development of common options for action and the creation of the infrastructure necessary to achieve this will, in time, be the very first item on europe"s agenda for the future. but in fact, this is not about militarisation of the european union at all, but about developing it into an effective force for peace which has the ability to act, and which is able, as in kosovo, to uphold the power of justice and the renunciation of violence, thus ensuring that war as a political instrument in europe is forever a thing of the past. (applause) the future viability of the european union depends on its being strengthened in terms of its legitimacy and credibility in the eyes of the citizens. the draft for a european charter of fundamental rights agreed in cologne should ensure that the fundamental rights of the citizens are accorded the same status at the european level as they are at the national level. this is a new process. the charter should be based on a wide-ranging dialogue involving representatives of the european parliament, the national parliaments, the government and the commission. this committee should present its report to the european council under the french presidency. i hope that the european parliament will play a leading role in this process, building on the preparatory work that has already been underway in the parliament for some time. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the progress that has been made in terms of political integration and enlargement raises an issue of central importance to the future of the european union. how can a union of 27, or with south-eastern europe in mind, in the long-term even 30 member states, continue to work and have the power to act? how is the enlarged europe of the future both to retain its cohesion and fulfil its obligations internally and externally? this question, which in terms of far-reaching implications goes well beyond the next intergovernmental conference, is very soon to have a considerable impact on the debate on reform within europe, indeed it must impact on it. democratisation and, ultimately, development of the parliamentary process within the european union, must be central to this debate: the creation of a true union of citizens. it is only by following this path that we will gradually be able to overcome the decline in interest which manifested itself in the alarmingly low turnout at the european elections. indeed, it was to the alarm of us all. the democratic imperative has become evident from the conflict surrounding the resignation of the commission, during which the fundamental issues of transparency, democratic control and the legitimacy of european dealings have been raised. however, this imperative is also a consequence of the european union"s growing power to act, not least in terms of foreign and security policy. a union that wants to have the power to act in crises and conflicts urgently needs its own chain of democratic legitimacy. it will therefore be essential, in the future, for the rights of the european parliament to be extended beyond the new stipulations of the amsterdam treaty, but also for the national parliaments to have greater involvement. at the beginning of the german presidency, madam president, i initiated a debate on the idea of a european constitution. this debate will further strengthen the citizens" consciousness of their identity as european citizens. however, we should detach ourselves from a strictly legal understanding of the term constitution and instead understand it to mean a combination of values and fundamental principles, the functioning mechanisms of european co-existence, and the way in which the european union functions as a political construct sui generis. the two crises experienced over the last six months will have a long-lasting effect on the progress of european integration. the kosovo conflict has caused us to focus again on the point of departure for integration; the setting up of a european framework for peace. the resignation of the commission, on the other hand, has shown that we will need in the future to create a truly democratic union with as many checks as there are balances. i feel that these two insights serve as a good basis for the finnish presidency, which i wish the best of luck for the responsible task that lies ahead of it. thank you for your attention. (loud applause)
member of the commission . – (es) madam president, i am also going to be very brief this time for reasons which i am sure you will understand perfectly. i simply wish to point out that, as mentioned by mr fischer, the president of the council, during the german presidency – which has been a complicated and difficult presidency – some of the great issues and challenges which were facing us have been resolved. i refer, of course, to the approval of agenda 2000, which was an enormously difficult exercise in terms of politics, diplomacy and the balance of interests within the union, and to all the consequences resulting from perhaps the greatest contemporary problem, given its repercussions within the european union itself, by which i mean the kosovo conflict and all the circumstances surrounding it as well as its resultant consequences for the future. european security and defence have taken a step forward with the appointment of the person responsible for the cfsp. these steps perhaps demonstrate that foreign and security policy, in the aftermath of the kosovo affair, continue to be the ‘achilles heel’ of community construction and still have a long way to go. finally, the european employment pact has also been given a great boost – with the implementation of the conclusions of the european council of luxembourg. the outgoing commission therefore congratulates the german presidency. we believe it has been a very good presidency. very difficult problems have been resolved. this is all due, with no doubt whatsoever, to the talent, efficiency and intelligence of mr fischer, the foreign minister, with whom i have been very impressed, and i promise him that, in my new life, when i return to spain, i will go jogging and eat bananas. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr foreign minister, ladies and gentlemen, mr president, i would like to thank you for your speech, but unfortunately the german presidency of the council cannot be considered as a positive event. i am not going to find words as kind as those of the president-in-office of the commission. the german presidency has had its ups and downs, its successes, which we have acknowledged, but also its serious shortcomings, failures and mistakes. the german presidency had to deal with the tragic situation in kosovo and the berlin declaration left nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. the presidency of the council, together with the countries of the european union and the western allies, has acted decisively to confront the yugoslav tyrant and dictator milosevic. the action was necessary and right. our message on the threshold of the year 2000 must be: never again must people in europe be driven from their homes, from their homeland! human rights, human dignity and the right to a homeland are the foundations of our european civilization! i would also like to express my personal thanks and appreciation to you, mr foreign minister, on behalf of our group, for your strong and convincing defence of human rights, including the physical injuries you have suffered. (applause from the centre) but we in our group have often asked ourselves: what would have happened if our political friends had had your political responsibilities? would you have shown the same solidarity with the federal government in the opposition? we therefore thank our political friends from the cdu and csu and also the liberals for their strong support for the presidency of the council. we are disgusted - and we are as critical as you are - that the leader of the post-communist pds group has shaken hands with milosevic in belgrade. the people who share this view are also represented here in the european parliament. now we must build up kosovo, which is one of the central tasks of the european union. we must not repeat the mistakes made in bosnia, where everything is bureaucratic and takes a long time, but the european union must now act quickly and unbureaucratically. the council of ministers, the commission and the european parliament are called upon to work together to give hope to the suffering people of kosovo, the former yugoslavia and the balkans. agenda 2000 was adopted in berlin and must now be the basis for the accession of the first countries in this european parliamentary term until 2004. the main aim is to establish the european family in the community of values of european civilization, which is expressed in the european union. this will promote stability and security, democracy and peace. but we also say - and i know we agree - that enlargement has its prerequisites: reform of the european union. we welcome your efforts to establish a european charter, we welcome the efforts to establish a conference on the reform of the european union. the core of this reform must be that majority decision-making in the council of ministers is finally recognised as the fundamental decision-making instrument for this european union. we want a functioning union based on the principles of democracy and parliamentarism. the cologne summit decided on the secretary-general, the so-called high commissioner. we think this decision for javier solana is an excellent decision. but now the point is that this high representative should also be given the necessary powers and that he should work reasonably with the member of the commission responsible. we must also prevent foreign policy from being reduced to a mere cooperation between the countries of the european union where it is already carried out in a joint manner. we shall be very careful here to ensure that the right steps are taken. the western european union is to be integrated into the european union. that's very good. if the assembly of the western european union is to disappear, there must of course be a european responsibility of a parliament in addition to the national parliaments, and that is why the powers in the fields of foreign, security and defence policy must increasingly be vested in the european parliament, so that there is no parliamentary and democratic space in the european union. (applause from the centre) i now turn to rather unpleasant topics concerning the german presidency of the council. first, there is the appointment of the new commission. the presidency of the council gave us the recommendation at the beginning of the year that we should give discharge for the 1996 and 1997 budgets. so we were given advice that was actually long outdated. the federal government was still in a state of development which we could not fully comprehend. the second was the appointment and nomination of the two german members of the commission. mr foreign minister, the way this procedure has been conducted is scandalous! it is scandalous how the federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany has handled this question. the treaty provides that the members of the commission are to be appointed by agreement between the designated presidents and the national governments. we now know that a person proposed by the federal government did not even have the chance to meet the chancellor before the chancellor's meeting with mr prodi. that means the chancellor has not spoken to the person he has proposed before. he then dictated these two persons to the president of the commission, the president-designate of the commission. the german chancellor has thus rendered no service to romano prodi, to the european institutions or to the federal republic. the list of such failures can be continued. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was the first time since the war that the french national assembly had spoken of germany's violation of international law. this is the worst misconduct of the minister of the environment! the absence of the german chancellor, the minister of finance, at the launch of the euro is another case. the disappearance of the president of the finance council from office is a phenomenon unprecedented in the european union! the chancellor's dictum to withdraw the car directive from the council of ministers is a process hitherto unknown and unheard of in the european union, and the chancellor's dictum that the german minister for economic affairs should not attend the council of ministers meeting in finland is without precedent in the recent history of the european union. i know that you did not want all this to happen, mr foreign minister, but the strength of german policy, from konrad adenauer to willy brandt and helmut schmidt to helmut kohl, has always been that the partners have trusted the federal republic of germany. i hope that you, mr foreign minister, will be able to guarantee this confidence in the stability and reliability of german european policy in the future, because it is important for the progress of the european union and for the future of our european continent. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is clear that mr poettering now wants to use the european parliament as a kind of stepping stone for his national opposition in germany. the pirouettes you are making here, mr poettering, show that the folding of your dress cannot be as beautiful as the folding of the face of our foreign minister. the european union has been put to the test during a difficult period under your presidency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not a question! but the decisions taken under the german presidency of the council in the last six months will shape the future of the european union well into the next decade. mr poettering asked what would have happened if what had been decided under the german presidency had been decided under a presidency with its political colour. i can tell you, mr poettering, what would have happened. then you would have rung all the bells, you would have lit a thousand candles, and you would have set the tone for the te deum! that is the difference between christian democrats and european democrats. we are not going to start singing here, but we are going to say to the german presidency of the council a simple thank you for a successful presidency of the council! (applause from the centre) we welcome the fact that the european council, under the german presidency, has concluded work on a european employment pact. we know that a european employment pact cannot replace national efforts to create jobs, but it can and must coordinate, guide and stimulate these efforts. we also know that a european employment pact is not yet a european employment policy. the governments of all the member states must move from the non-binding nature of the joint declarations to the binding nature of common policies with clear guidelines and agreed benchmarks. we need not only a pact for the stability of the euro, but also a pact for the work of europeans. secondly, the decisions which the european council had to take in the field of the common foreign and security policy will change the european union more profoundly than is foreseeable today. for the first time in history, the european union has supported the deployment of armed forces in europe, and it has done so with remarkable unity. we want you, mr president-in-office, the governments of the member states, to show the same determination in the process of creating peace in the balkans. nato has won the war, the european union must now win the peace. the stability pact for the balkans is a right and necessary step, but it is not yet a balkan policy. the eu's policy in the balkans must not be limited to the creation of offices and agencies. if you continue as you are, you will very soon need the office of coordinator of coordinators, and that is not balkan policy. the third point is institutional reform. you made a very good speech here in january, mr president-in-office, with a great perspective. the cologne european council's decision to reform the institutions is, however, a small coin. the limitation to the reforms under the amsterdam protocol is too timid for us. it is good that you have launched the reforms in cologne, but we have an answer to the questions you have asked here, mr president-in-office, about the wider perspective of enlargement of the european union and the institutional structure of our european union, and the answer is clear: we want a major reform of the institutions before enlargement. a greater europe cannot be bought by a smaller europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr president-in-office, you have spoken of the new commission. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the new commission will not exist until the european parliament has voted to appoint it with a vote of confidence, but if mr poettering here is shouting that the chancellor did not speak to a commissioner-designate before the appointment, then, mr poettering, i must tell you that former chancellor kohl has spoken to mr bangemann very often, and you can see the success he has had in that, namely, none. talking is useless! however, i would like to say a few words to the other side of the house about the new commission: we refuse - and i am speaking here on behalf of the socialist group - to make the procedure and timetable of parliament dependent on the submission of a report by an extra-parliamentary group or committee. we will not tolerate any delay in the setting up of the commission. you may pass this if you find the majority in favour, mr poettering, but you will also have to explain to the public why a commission which resigned in march will still be in office six months after it resigned. this is a clear delaying tactic which my group will not support. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr foreign minister, i would like to thank you for your report. it would be politically shortsighted for a green representative to praise the german presidency of the council without any ifs and buts. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the conditions were exceptionally difficult, and we believe that the probationary period was passed well. a european commission in a state of shock, which is finally forced to take action and resign, but which also exposes europe's major institutional deficits. the appointment of mr prodis has been a quick response to the personnel consequences of the german presidency. this is an important start. unfortunately, the council has not yet taken the same consistent approach to institutional decisions, but it is in this area in particular that we should express our special thanks to foreign minister fischer for his important initiatives and his important work. agenda 2000, an ambitious reform project, was due to be implemented under the german presidency of the council to deepen european integration and make the eu fit for eastern enlargement through substantial reforms. the decisions taken at the berlin summit were not all as forward-looking as we had expected. good compromises, for example in the financial field, which constitute reserves for the enlargement to the east, are countered by halting measures in the field of agricultural reform. the opportunity was given here for a policy towards environmental sustainability that strengthens regional structures. the german presidency was also marked by the escalation in kosovo. the decision to intervene militarily to combat a policy of racism, nationalism and ethnic displacement in 21st century europe was, as you know, met with mixed reactions in the green group. the german presidency was very active in promoting a solution to the so-called fischer plan, involving russia, finland and, last but not least, the un. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the situation in the region is not destabilised. the german presidency has done its part to strengthen the common european home. we hope that the learning processes made by all those involved during this period will contribute to the strengthening, democratic development and enlargement of europe. the european parliament must now play its part and continue to work in this area. i would like to say a final word on mr poettering, without wishing to refer specifically to domestic policy decisions, because i believe that we are in a european parliament and that we should not be talking about germany in the first place. but i can assure you of one thing, mr. poettering: the green party in particular has learned from bosnia, and now also from kosovo, and we would have taken account of this responsibility today in a different composition. we have had many important disputes within the party, and i think we have made enormous progress!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! i would like to say a few words to my colleague mr poettering. you have just mentioned the name of your group and that it is called the christian democrats and the european democrats. it is almost nine years since germany was united, and i would be very pleased if you could finally, after so long, respect the fact that there is a democratic socialist left in germany, which is now also represented in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! instead of a union of employment, we get a union of defence. this is the sober assessment and the unpromising message of the german presidency. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a step in the right direction. the agricultural reform has not opened the door to the candidate countries of central and eastern europe. the german government itself, after the berlin summit, admitted that the agricultural policy needed to be reformed again in view of enlargement. the appointment of romano prodi as president of the commission was not able to overshadow the poor results of this summit. the german eu presidency did nothing to at least slow down the permanent external decline of the euro. the crisis of the european common currency was not even on the agenda in cologne. no decision was taken on taxation of international speculative capital movements or on combating tax dumping and tax havens in the union. as a german member of parliament, i was very concerned that national egoism became the hallmark of the german presidency of the council. the blunt blocking of the european altauto directive in the sole interest of a german car company caused outrage, as did the rash appointment of former chancellor hombach as the balkan representative or the lack of understanding of the aims and forms of french policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the european union has a duty to help the poorest countries in the world. this is probably one of the reasons why so many citizens have been left out of the european elections. the people of europe do not understand when european employment policy becomes a buzzword. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are firmly committed to a social europe and therefore we cannot accept that social cohesion in the union is being easily jeopardized, that wage restraint is being preached and that social security systems are being called into question. under the german presidency of the council, the european union and its member states actively supported the nato war in the balkans, which broke international law and abolished the un, and at the same time the community's transformation into a so-called defence union was sealed. the european union has been able to take a more positive stance on war as a political instrument, and this disastrous course is being furthered by the incorporation of the weu military pact into the european union and the build-up of interventionist forces. disarmament, crisis prevention and civil conflict resolution, in particular through the strengthening of the role of the osce, are at risk of being left behind. following this logic, nato secretary-general solana was appointed the future mister cfsp. our group rejects this nomination. the european union's designated german commissioner verheugen said after the cologne summit that the rapid agreement on strengthening the union's common foreign and security policy would have been impossible without the pressure of the kosovo war. in other words, war has become the motor and driving force of european integration. this is devastating and a dangerous misguided course for the year 2000. if today we are celebrating the stability pact for south-eastern europe as a great success, we would have done better not to waste money on bombs, missiles and soldiers, but to present the pact a few months earlier as part of a comprehensive political and civil concept of the european union for the region and to provide the osce with the necessary resources. we strongly advocate a policy which abhors war and military violence and which excludes them from the life of the people! (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the german presidency of the council is of course overshadowed by the kosovo war, but it deserves to be remembered all the more for the fact that the german presidency, which is responsible to the german government, has been able to maintain its position on this issue only because it was unreservedly supported by the union parties, whereas, mr fischer, your own followers would have been happy to throw you out of your sneakers, if you were still wearing them! the presidency of the council has a dubious record, and only the presidency of the council itself denies this. let us look at the outcome of agenda 2000, for example. it is not a good compromise, but a fragile basis. it will not be able to withstand the onslaught of the first wto negotiations. this applies to the agricultural problem, which has not been resolved in the slightest, which has not created any scope for enlargement. the only thing that has been achieved is a worsening of the income situation of farmers. the promising approach of cofinancing was taken for granted at the outset and thus amateurishly. the question of net contributions, of the reorganization of the financial framework, was first raised by the german chancellor, especially in the german public, and then he failed miserably to solve the problem. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. everything is postponed to the future and future conferences. the common currency, which you rightly pointed out as a great european success, mr fischer, was obviously not even important enough in the eyes of the finance minister responsible for you at the time to take part in the first important meeting. i think that is something that needs to be recalled. and where did the 'speech' about the independence of the european central bank come from, which has helped to weaken the euro in its external effects and which is only now, fortunately, recovering? the balance sheet of this presidency of the council is problematic above all because, like few others before it, it has not acted in the interests of the community. this is particularly evident in the process of the withdrawal of the high-speed car regulation. the community has not been served there, and mr trittin was left to play the role of berserker, which he obviously knows very well. no, this presidency has lost the confidence that many chancellors had built up in previous years, and it is therefore particularly appropriate to give a critical account of what has happened in the past six months. it's not a success! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a pity that the president-in-office is now leaving the chamber, because i would have started with a compliment. i would have said that he is one of the few, if not the only, bright spots of this council presidency! if mr swoboda has spoken to the new majority, then yes, the new majority is clarifying the profile and the conception of this house, and that is good for europe, mr swoboda. (applause from the centre) i regret to have to give the german government a 'deficient' rating for the first half of this year as a whole. the grand announcement of a new employment pact turned out to be a soap bubble in practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, the language and style of the german government in the last six months has sometimes made me feel ashamed of it in the european parliament. this is not the style of europe, and certainly not of the soviet power germany. the fact that mr trittin has been so bold in denouncing the nuclear agreements has naturally led to the proposals of the german council power being met with great scepticism. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will not be able to accept it. i would add that the chancellor schröder has said that helmut kohl's checkbook diplomacy must be stopped at last. that really has broken the barrel! i do not want to go into the nomination of the german candidates, which was a resounding slap in the face of the election, and therefore i would like to conclude by saying: as long as the dictator milosevic is at the helm in serbia, not a penny and not a single euro of european taxpayers should flow to serbia! the first thing to do is to restore democracy. the council's power was also involved. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the serious and negative effects of the financial crisis, the slowdown in economic growth in the european union - also in the era of economic and monetary union - have dramatically highlighted the need for the european cologne employment pact. it is not a soap bubble, but it is at last a concrete approach to coordinating the economic policies of the european union beyond the employment guidelines, in order to organise more growth. we need structural reforms in the european economic and monetary union, in the european union. but just as important is higher and faster growth. we need it. in this respect, the european employment pact rightly does not delegate responsibility for employment policy to the european union. but they know that in the age of globalisation a common response must be found, and that is right. the only thing that is needed are more specific reference values and guidelines. but i have a request for the incoming presidencies: we have not succeeded in improving the democratic legitimacy of economic and monetary union during the german presidency either. we urgently need an interinstitutional agreement between the council, the commission and the european parliament on the broad lines of economic policy. we also need the integration of the employment and economic policy guidelines and, very importantly, we need a revision of the institutional framework of the european employment pact. we need more democracy, not an increase in the democratic deficit through the european employment pact, and this parliament called for it in the previous legislature. we must also make this demand.
mr president, you asked us to give an explanation, and that is how the sample vote was conducted. the name of the candidate chosen is visible and is underlined by the asterisk. i ask you to explain to us how the elections will be held in secret. i think that's the exact opposite of a secret ballot, and i'm challenging it right now! it's against the law. the vote will be held in secret and not in such a way that anyone can watch the vote, including the cameras in this house. i don't think this is a secret election! (applause from the centre)
president-elect of the commission. - (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the new president of the european parliament and all of you most warmly on your recent election. i am very happy to be here today to introduce to you a new team of european commissioners. in the last two addresses i gave before the european parliament, in april and may, i promised to inaugurate a new era of change within the commission. the new college of commissioners which i am going to introduce to you today is the team which will implement these changes. i do not intend to introduce each member of the college to you individually. they are sitting here in front of you and their names are well known to you. this is a well-balanced team of the highest quality, and is the result of my constructive debates with the heads of state and government, which have fully respected the new powers which the treaty of amsterdam conferred on the president-elect. each member of the team has proven experience. almost all have been members of the parliaments of their own countries, three quarters of them have been ministers, many have been leaders of political parties and others have accumulated a wealth of experience in diplomacy, business, economic policy making and the legal sphere. right from the beginning, i have made no bones about the fact that i would not accept a lower female representation than that of the outgoing commission. i have succeeded in this although i had hoped to do better. therefore, throughout its term of office, the commission will promote equality of opportunities between the sexes in all sectors. the new college is also characterised by the right balance between the political complexity of national governments and the european parliament. i am happy that this is so, but it should be specified that the commission does not operate according to the same procedures as political parties. the commission is a college and the commissioners are neither delegates from political groups nor representatives of their national governments. (applause) in our first informal meeting last weekend, we set a few clear ground rules. each commissioner will, at all times, discharge his duties in such a way as to reflect the interest of europe as a whole. if at any point i am not satisfied with the situation, i will not hesitate to use the powers conferred on me by the treaty and change competences and portfolios or ask individual commissioners to resign. with regard to this, although it is not laid down by the treaty, each commissioner has given me his personal assurance that he will stand down if and when i ask him to. obviously, this is not a step to be taken lightly, but the existence of these agreements is a transparent guarantee of the sense of responsibility of each individual commissioner. we also found we were in agreement regarding the need for the new college to abide by the highest standards of public life. one of the first actions of the new commission will therefore be to adopt formally the new code of conduct for commissioners, including also new, stringent rules for avoiding conflicts of interest when the commissioners leave their office. we are looking forward to getting down to work and we hope that dialogue with the parliament will be frank and open during our team"s hearings, and that we will receive firm support from you in september. i will now move on to the other main subject of my address today: the reform of the commission. the need for reform is indisputable, as recent events have shown that european institutions as a whole are no longer adequately equipped to deal with the wide range of tasks incumbent upon them. this is why i have promised a revolution in the commission"s operating procedures. this does not mean that i want to undermine the commission"s achievement as an institution: that would be extremely unjust. the commission has many strong points, including committed, experienced personnel and a great capacity for innovation and foresight. over the years, it has given proof of its considerable capacities to adapt, repeatedly taking on new tasks and responsibilities. practically every major development in the process of european integration can be traced back to the commitment and dedication of the personnel in the commission. however, as is the case in numerous public administrations, the world has moved on and the commission has failed to keep up. too little has been done to modernise the institution itself and no alterations of substance have been made to the structure of the commission in forty years. this is why an in-depth examination of the institution"s working procedures needs to be carried out now. the challenge to be taken up consists of redesigning, adapting and improving the organisation in order to make it more efficient, to fight fraud at all levels and place the institution at the service of the citizens of europe. let us not be under any illusions! this whole process of change will take time, but an initial reorganisation of the commission is already underway. the bureaucratic machine will be simplified and rationalised, with fewer directorates-general. the commissioner"s offices, that is, their private offices, will be in the same building as their respective directorates-general. both offices and commissioners will be more streamlined and more multinational – i have tried to ensure that each head or second in command of an office is the citizen of a different country from that of the commissioner, and each office contains people from at least three different member states. the rules for appointing higher civil servants will be more stringent and transparent, and mobility within the commission of higher civil servants will increase. the directorates of the commission will be identified by short, clear names instead of by numbers, and a larger department will be established in the mass media and communications sector to ensure that the commission"s policies are communicated professionally and that they reach all the citizens of europe. naturally, this is only the beginning and further, more important changes will follow. presumably, the committee of independent experts will present its second report in september, although i share mrs fontaine"s hope that it will be ready for publication as soon as possible, within a time frame which the five wise men will be able to sustain. we will study this report with the utmost attention, and i hope that it will contain elements which will be useful for the reform process. in this respect, the new vice-president responsible for reform will submit a detailed plan at the beginning of the year 2000. all this will have to be discussed in depth with the european parliament. in particular, we will have to find a suitable mechanism for ensuring that the parliament is kept constantly and exhaustively informed of the progress of the reform, while at the same time respecting the commission"s autonomy in managing its own competences. my intention is to transform the commission into a world class administration which will lead by example. our watchwords at all times will be transparency, accountability and efficiency. now is not the time to dwell on the programme for the new commission. i gave a broad overview of our future priorities in my addresses to this parliament in april and may, and we will have the opportunity to examine these issues in more detail in september. i am here today to introduce the new commission, not its programme, but i can promise you that the central theme of our entire programme will be to make the european union more relevant to the citizens of europe. in fact, it cannot be denied that the european institutions are suffering from a collective loss of confidence on the part of our citizen and in order to win this back, we must act decisively. however, we will only succeed if we confront the issues which have genuine importance in the daily life of the citizens, such as unemployment, economic growth and the challenge represented by sustainable development to ensure a balance between the creation of riches, social justice and quality of life. this must be the new commission"s genuine priority. as i have just said, this is not the time for a detailed examination of the programme, but i would like to put forward just three examples of what i mean by renewal. first of all, let us consider the issue of health and food safety. the european public has lost confidence in the national and european authorities responsible for controlling drugs and foodstuffs: it no longer has faith in this government, or any other governments, or scientists. i consider it our duty to take the initiative and make provision for an independent european food and drugs agency, which will help to win back consumer confidence. (applause) air traffic is another matter for concern. our european airports are in a semi-permanent state of chaos, due to ever-increasing traffic and lack of co-ordination between air traffic controllers. i think we can all testify to this. the problem transcends national boundaries in this case as well, and we must seek solutions at a european level – solutions that really work. a third example is the doping which is taking place in the sporting world – a question which may seem banal to some but which for many is a cause of deep concern. this is a problem which obviously requires the different nations to co-ordinate and take decisive action. i do not pretend that europe has all the answers to these problems. what i mean is that we must show our commitment to contributing to the resolution of these issues at a european level, as by their very nature, they go well beyond purely national boundaries. i have no hesitation in suggesting that in some cases – or, rather, in many cases – the answer to the concerns of disillusioned european citizens lies not in reducing but in increasing the european dimension. the vast majority of european citizens are not sceptical about action on a european scale, but they are becoming increasingly disillusioned and are fast losing interest in the interminable, impenetrable wrangles over who should do what at a european level. what the citizens persist in demanding are clear answers to the important problems in their everyday lives. the bottom line is, what interests them is not who solves their problems but the fact that the problems are finally being dealt with. they want consumers to be able to trust the food they buy, travellers to be able to take a plane without worrying about their safety and the sporting world to be above board. i have already stated that i do not intend to dwell on the policies as the time for that will be in september. however, i would like to touch briefly on two issues which are especially important in the new commission: kosovo and the next intergovernmental conference. let us first take the situation in kosovo and the balkans. the war in the balkans has left the whole of europe deeply scarred. what we must do now is make sure that peace brings something positive. as time goes on, my concern grows that our capacity to make war far exceeds our ability to co-ordinate the reconstruction after the devastation suffered by the populations involved. more time than necessary has been wasted in diplomatic disputes over who should co-ordinate the reconstruction work. it is now a question of focusing our energy on the really important tasks: rebuilding houses left without roofs, putting back together shattered communities, and, even more importantly, providing the balkans with a clear political and economic future, which will put an end to all the centuries of continual conflict. only the european union can do this. in order to restore peace, a clear, long-term strategy is needed, based on reconstruction, reconciliation and rapprochement : construction to repair the damage done by the war, reconciliation between all the parties involved, including the serbian people, and the rapprochement of this region to the european union, including the prospect of future accession to the european union for all the countries of the region, if and when they show themselves to be politically and economically ready. i am sure that the best way of pursuing such a goal is the method already successfully employed by the community in the past: firstly, to ask the various parties to co-operate with each other, to start to work together on issues of everyday relevance, to establish customs unions, to set up common institutions and to consolidate peace through common interests. this is how lasting peace was achieved within the european union, reconciling opposed nations by co-operation. when the second world war was still a recent event, the signatories to the treaty of rome were people of great courage and farsightedness. are the men and women of our generation unable to display the same farsightedness and courage over the balkans issue? is it that europe is not ready to take the risk? does europe not have the ambition to bring about successful change? when we start to take up this challenge, we find before us a paradox. the european union may be first in line with its contribution, but the risk is that the impact of its aid will be lost in a complicated network of competing structures: the united nations mission to kosovo, the stability pact, the g−7 high level group for economic relations, the office of the high representative in bosnia, the special envoy for the republic of yugoslavia, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. this multitude of decisions undermines the central function which should be carried out by the european union. there is a desperate need to simplify things. in particular, we must ensure that the european union"s huge financial contribution is spent on reconstruction and not on bureaucracy. i believe this is the reason the commission has refused, for example, to draw upon the budget made available by the obnova reconstruction programme, approximately eur 45 million to pay the salaries of the seven hundred people working for the office of the high representative in bosnia. this is the equivalent of a sum of about eur 17 million out of a total of forty-five. as a priority, our financial aid must be used to benefit the population and reconstruction work directly. we must focus exclusively on sustaining the economic growth of the region and reinforcing its democratic structures. moreover, with regard to the structures to be created, we must pay particular attention to the specific value added in each case. we must at all costs avoid things being done in brussels when it would be better to do them in thessaloniki, and doing things in thessaloniki when it would make more sense to do them in pristina. (applause) the second point which i want to touch on today is the new intergovernmental conference which will be announced at the summit in helsinki. some people think that the intergovernmental conference will be a simple job of fine-tuning after the amsterdam summit, the object of which will be to speed through the individual issues on which it was not possible to reach agreement in amsterdam. i do not share this view. for me, the intergovernmental conference will be crucial for european institutions. it is our opportunity, possibly the last opportunity, to prepare ourselves for the potential doubling of the number of the union"s member countries. in my opinion, an intergovernmental conference which only has limited goals could not deal with a similar challenge. i am well aware that some people will object that it is better to make rapid progress in a limited field than to line up a whole series of issues in several fields, which are too complex to be resolved quickly. to me, this means not going to the heart of the matter. if the agenda of the intergovernmental conference is too limited to allow us to prepare adequately for enlargement, the only thing to do is to enlarge its scope. (applause) it will serve no purpose to patch up the borders. for enlargement to work, an in-depth, thorough examination of the institutions is essential. to this end, i intend to build a small, high level working party – and i do hope that it will be of a high level – which, during the next three months, will prepare a report on the subjects to be covered at the intergovernmental conference. the report will contribute to the preparation of the official position of the new commission on the intergovernmental conference. even though much of the political demand of the european union is currently opposed to a clear refusal on this matter, i will not be shaken in my resolve to present, at least in an official way, the possible options. (applause) in my opinion, it would be an error of mammoth proportions to organise an intergovernmental conference in helsinki which is too limited, simply because of the collective fear of confronting the real challenges of future enlargement head on. we will naturally see to it that the european parliament plays a greater role in the work carried out in helsinki. ladies and gentlemen, the commission and the institutions of the community have been through a very difficult period. the european public is now looking to us to draw a line under the past and move on towards the future. the challenge facing all of us is that of restoring the credibility of the european union in the eyes of its citizens and ensuring that they understand the benefits that the european union provides for their personal, everyday lives. i cannot insist enough on this point. as i speak, the whole of the european public is watching us, and is waiting with bated breath to see what is about to happen in the great history of the commission and the parliament. i would like to propose that we disappoint those spectators who have come here to watch a confrontation. none of us will act in the interest of the people of europe if we allow the european institutions to be in a state of permanent confrontation and deadlock. now we have a new parliament and a new commission, and this is our opportunity to start afresh. the commission and this parliament are the only two institutions whose leaning is exclusively and genuinely towards europe. there should be a solid alliance between them. we have to deal with the same tasks. who else, if not the commission and this parliament working together, can take this project forwards? the commission has suffered greatly from the recent events, but i believe that this parliament has also been affected, considering the poor turn-out at the recent elections. the task we face is that of restoring deep, mutual confidence between the two institutions, which has traditionally been the driving force of european integration. this means working together, while at the same time acknowledging the diversity of our functions. i am convinced that it is in the best interest of the parliament for there to be a strong, autonomous, independent, trusted commission. i hope that the new college which you see before you today will receive your full support in september. the go-ahead is not, however, a carte blanche for the future. this parliament, which is the voice of the citizens of europe, is the supreme judge of the commission"s work. ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with many challenges and europe needs a powerful sign of renewal and leadership. i have done all i can to prepare the new team and we are all impatient to get started. however, only you can give us the signal to start work. i am confident that you will use the great powers and responsibilities conferred on you by the treaties wisely and in the best interests of the union. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is the first time that such a debate has been held in this form. that is a step forward which we welcome. the debate today is part of a longer process, and part of that process will be the hearings that begin on august 30th and then continue into the first week of september. anyone who says today that we agree with the commission or we say no to the commission, whoever says this in this parliament or outside this parliament, is disregarding parliament, because the hearings are an important part of the whole process, after which we then make our free decision whether we agree with the commission or not. (applause from the centre) mr president, you have just said that the commission is balanced. i do not know what criteria you use for balance, but i will say to you in all clarity and clarity: we, as the group of the european people's party, the european democrats, do not think that this commission is politically balanced! (applause from the centre and the right) and that is why we must not allow the legend to arise in europe that this commission is balanced! if you repeat that it is politically balanced, you are in no way facilitating the possible acceptance of your team, which could well be qualified! (applause from the centre) so, mr president, i would be grateful if you would explain a little bit about the criteria for balance. this team has a weakness. you said you did everything you could to put the new team together. i must say to you that what we have heard about the previous german presidency of the council was in no way a process in which you were involved as the designated president of the european commission. what happened to you in bonn was dictated by gerhard schröder! (applause from the centre) the treaty states that the governments of the member states shall, in agreement with the president-designate, nominate the other persons whom they intend to appoint. as far as we know, you were not involved in the appointment of the two german members of the commission. i must say that i regret that - the volume of your arguments does not make them any better, mr cohn-bendit, nor does it make them any better, nor does it make them any better, the arguments of the others who are now loudly babbling behind my back - we do not think it is right for great britain, italy, spain and france to appoint two commissioners, one of whom is from the opposition, if the federal republic of germany does not follow the example of great britain, italy, spain and france! i don't think this is right! (applause from the centre and the right) it is an attitude of arrogance, of arrogance and of the arrogance of the chancellor of the federal republic of germany! (applause from the centre) our president, who was elected yesterday, spoke of the importance of getting the report of the wise men as soon as possible. i hope that we can work together to ensure that this report of the wise men is available before the hearings take place. (applause from the centre) we will do everything possible - at least my group will do everything possible - to ensure that sufficient time is allowed for each candidate during the hearings, and the hour and a half provided so far is not enough, but we need at least three hours to have a really good discussion! (applause from the centre) i would also recommend that we, as a parliament, have the opportunity to have an in-depth discussion with you in a suitable forum, mr prodi. i say on behalf of my group that the hearings will be conducted on the basis of fairness and without any personal discrimination! this means that we treat everyone equally in the hearings as far as the persons are concerned. there is no prejudice. we are fair and we will behave accordingly! (applause from the centre) the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. i agree with you, mr president, that we as the european parliament and the commission have equal responsibilities for this european union. the commission is the guardian of the treaties and you have used the term 'government', which i personally like because it implies that this government also has parliamentary responsibilities and must be accountable to parliament. i would therefore like to ask you, mr president of the commission, to answer the following question: you said that you asked each member of your possible new commission whether they would accept your request if you said, 'please take your hat off'. i 'm asking you because: if a committee of parliament does not give a majority to a person, if the committee says no, what question will you then ask your team? will you then advise members to comply with the vote of this committee of the european parliament? i would like to hear your answer to that question. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
(de) mr prodi, you have just portrayed very colourfully, how the little donkey would rather go thirsty than drink dirty water. i ask you now though, if you can assure us that the little donkey would also say no to watered-down wine.
ladies and gentlemen, the agenda now provides for time for a further ballot for the quaestors, which we do not need because we voted electronically. i therefore declare the sitting adjourned until 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was adjourned at 5.05 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. dear president of the council! since 1989 this parliament has been continuously debating the fate of kosovo. we have called for action and warned against western inaction. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. unfortunately, the failure of western governments to act led milosevic to invade croatia, bosnia-herzegovina and finally to start a bloodbath in kosovo. there are millions of refugees in the region, tens of thousands of dead, misery wherever we look. long-term neglect, among other things, made the military strike necessary. we are all glad that the joint action of the west and russia has brought the war to an end and made it possible for the albanian refugees to return to their homes. but the tasks that now lie ahead are enormous and we must tackle them with vigour and efficiency, and above all we must not leave the people of kosovo out of the picture. the mistakes we made in the reconstruction of bosnia-herzegovina must not be repeated. if the salaries of the international staff in bosnia-herzegovina are not in proportion to the aid that is coming in, that is unacceptable and must not happen again in kosovo. but we must also prevent other mistakes which the council is now prepared to make. the council wants to record the inefficiency when it will establish the kosovo agency in thessaloniki. it must be located in kosovo and not 200 kilometres away in another country, especially since all the organisations and agencies of the un, the osce, the unhcr are located in kosovo. i am convinced that thessaloniki is the best place for the headquarters of the stability pact for south-eastern europe. i urge the council and the greek government to vote in favour of this option. let me also say that i have no understanding whatsoever of the show in sarajevo next week. for a day and a half, 1.5 million euros is nothing compared to what will not be published that day. because everything that is to come out of there has already been decided in cologne. how many small and mediumsized enterprises could we establish in bosnia-herzegovina with this one and a half million euros? how many jobs could we create, how many people could we bring back, which is not the case so far? i would like to say a word about serbia. i would like to welcome two representatives of the serbian opposition to the gallery. the serbian resistance, dear friends, against the milosevic regime must now receive all the help we can give, unlike two years ago when we left the opposition alone for fear of angering the regime. let's learn from our mistakes. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are currently dealing with a parallel case with kosovo, the öcalan case, which we as europeans could have handled better if we had not made so many mistakes. abdullah öcalan was in italy, abdullah öcalan was in greece. my country, germany, didn't like him. he should not have stayed in italy. he was not allowed in greece. now he's in turkey. the failure of our collective efforts in the öcalan case makes it difficult for us to explain to many people in turkey, whether they are turks or kurds, why we are fundamentally against the death penalty and why, as mr swoboda has just said, we are not only against the death penalty because of mr öcalan, but also because of the death penalty. we call on the turkish parliament to abolish the death penalty once and for all, because we have a great interest in welcoming turkey as a european country among us as an equal partner. we are therefore convinced that the death penalty in the öcalan case is the wrong answer to the longstanding kurdish question and cannot be an alternative when it comes to solutions. the case of öcalan could also be an opportunity for the people, for the turks, kurds and kurds in anatolia and for the country, the turkish republic, if the turkish government and the turkish parliament wanted it. in this sense, our resolution, which we hope to adopt tomorrow, is also an appeal to our turkish colleagues in ankara. we could all work together to ensure that one day there will be no need for debates in this house about a democratic republic of turkey. i hope we can all succeed together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to make a few remarks as rapporteur on the statute for members. the european parliament adopted the statute by a qualified majority in december 1998 and confirmed this decision by an overwhelming majority in may this year. we have a statute, we just need the council's approval. it is not enough for the council to present a counter-proposal. that's not an answer! i would remind you that the european commission has given its full approval to the statute of the european parliament. let me make a few remarks on the principles that will guide us. one thing will not happen, namely that the press will attribute this statute to the council. not the swedish press, not the british press, not the dutch press, none at all. not even the highly respected french newspaper liberation will invoke this statute. we don't let officials dictate our status. we are not children to be patted on the finger, we are not to be swung by officials. i would therefore recommend to the finnish presidency that the council document be quietly put on the record. we will not go into a babylonian captivity of the council. we will maintain the autonomy of parliament and we will reject any kind of patronage over parliament. (applause from the centre) we will make constructive proposals to the finnish presidency. i am glad that a first meeting can take place at the beginning of september. i would ask the finnish presidency to ensure that the necessary talks are held at the highest possible political level. i believe that this is the best way of ensuring the success we want. mr president, we have high hopes for the finnish presidency. we also hope that the finnish presidency will involve the european parliament in the preparation of the catalogue of fundamental rights. it is not serious that the council considers it an option for two members of the european parliament to participate in this catalogue of fundamental rights. without a minimum of 15 members, it will be difficult to achieve a balance between the european parliament and the national members, but this balance is necessary. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. i could just go ahead and join the speakers. you are quite right, because mr martin bangemann has managed in an inimitable way to permanently damage not only the reputation of the commission and parliament but also, in the end, the european idea. the electors, the citizens outside our countries, cannot always distinguish clearly between the commission and parliament or the council. they often confuse the institutions. and now, when you are at home, they say: 'you up there, you in brussels are always the ones who are corrupt, who get rich, etc.' what mr bangemann has destroyed and torn down, we must now rebuild with the new commission, with our own hands, in a laborious and small way. what light does that throw on mr bangemann's personality structure when he acts like that? in fact, it is more than necessary for the courts to deal with this, because if we remember the case of ignacio lopez at volkswagen, this kind of insider knowledge is actually almost a criminal act if you go into another area so soon afterwards. we should also bear this in mind. but this mr bangemann was also sent here twice by the kohl government. i would like to dispel the myth that the opposition in the federal republic has always appointed a commissioner. that was the first time with mrs wulf-mathies and not at all. i would like to ask mr poettering, who is not here, of course, where was his party to control its own commissioner? he was a tough guy as the minister of economy. he has been expelled from the liberal group in the european parliament. he was also very, very controversial as commissioner. let's remember the yacht thing. that's part of it, too. i very much welcome the fact that the new president of the commission, with his new commission, which we have yet to confirm, intends to introduce new rules of the game here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. we cannot accept that people say, 'yes, it is just a insult to our honour, but otherwise i can do whatever i want when my term of office is up.' it is up to us, including ourselves as members of parliament, to fight for and to draw up clear statutes, clear rules of the game, because it does little good to throw stones at others and to overlook the fact that sometimes we ourselves are sitting in a glass house. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the decision by mr bangemann to accept a seat on the telefonica board of directors is an unacceptable breach of political ethics. such action jeopardises the reputation of the european institutions and encourages citizens' reservations about the european union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. of course, mr bangemann bears personal responsibility for his actions, but a policy which is primarily oriented towards the economic interests, and unfortunately primarily the business interests of large companies, inevitably exposes its leading representatives as the executors of this policy to the danger of reproducing such a mentality and thus, contrary to any moral code, devoting themselves to their personal maximization of profit. in order for mr bangemann, former chairman of the fdp, which is characteristically known in the federal republic of germany as the 'party of the better-off', to be defined in the future as a negative exception of amoral behaviour, it is essential to support the action before the european court of justice.
council. – (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first, i would like to congratulate you all on the election results and wish the european parliament every success in its legislative work. i eagerly look forward to working in co-operation with you in my role of chairman of the agriculture council during the finnish presidential term. i have no doubt that co-operation between us during this time will be fruitful and will serve the interests of european producers, manufacturers and consumers well. obviously, i might have wished that our first meeting under the finnish presidency had taken place in other circumstances which would have permitted me to present the actual priorities of our programme. these include, in particular, legislation projects which aim to guarantee food safety for the consumer and promote the health and welfare of animals. unfortunately, owing to circumstances, we were obliged to give consideration to a chain of events we would never have wished for. recent events concerning the contamination by dioxins of certain foodstuffs in belgium have resulted in a very serious situation, not only with regard to the risks to people"s health, but also because they have weakened confidence in the animal feed and food production chain and in the ability of the authorities to monitor the situation properly. quite understandably, there has been a very strong reaction on the part of the public to this crisis, which erupted just as we were starting to think that the bse crisis was an exceptional, isolated case which we were already getting over. i fully understand why consumers expect us to take speedy, comprehensive and effective action, appropriate in terms of the gravity of the matter, to give them the necessary guarantees that the crisis will be resolved in both the short and the long-term. at the same time, we have to bear in mind that an undesirable occurrence such as this has very costly economic consequences. for that reason, we are under an obligation to do all we can to protect consumers" health and offer them guarantees regarding the safety of food that are as comprehensive as possible. it is in our own interest to take all necessary action to prevent incidents such as this from recurring. in connection with all this, i shall be working in co-operation with ms biaudet, who is chairman of the council of health ministers, to restore consumer confidence. we have to take into account the fact that legislation on issues of veterinary medicine and animal feed in the european union is amongst the most stringent in the world. you are well aware of the criticisms made by certain third countries that measures meant for the protection of consumers within the union are too restrictive. i can mention, by way of example, the recent decision by the world trade organisation to allow the usa and canada to impose penalty tariffs on our exports, owing to the importation ban on hormone-treated meat. the understandable financial and social worries of producers notwithstanding, the council has always worked, and will continue to work, with two principles in mind. first, the most important objective is the protection of people"s health, and second, all action must be based on the best possible scientific evidence. the recent decisions of the council are indications of this style of approach. i would refer to the decision forbidding the use of some antibiotics in feed as a boost to growth, and the decision approved by the council last monday to tighten up the rules on the treatment of animal waste as a way of protecting against infectious tse diseases. in speaking of dioxin contamination, we have to say that the investigations carried out by the belgian authorities and the inspections made by the commission show contamination was due to the introduction during the manufacturing process of a raw material that should never have been used for this purpose. we must also admit that the dioxin contamination of the feed shows that current legislation and protective measures are not fully sufficient to prevent the feed becoming contaminated by hazardous substances such as dioxin. for that reason, there is no doubt that community legislation should be amended to ensure that the quality of animal produce is to be relied upon fully. we must act now to see that the ‘prevention rather than cure" principle is fully applied in the future. before i move on to the question of the approach agreed upon in the council, i would like to remind everyone of the timely and effective work instigated by the commission and given the support of the member states" standing veterinary committee to implement vital crisis measures imposed by the precautionary principle. this action led to the identification, withdrawal from the market and destruction of all produce that was contaminated or suspected of being so. in addition, the commission imposed conditions on certified produce coming onto the market and on the continuance of trade in produce in national markets as well as the entire community market. the commission has already sent out all the details regarding the work it has begun, so i will not repeat them here. for my own part, and on behalf of the council, i would like to say we appreciate the commission"s work. turning to the action the council has taken, i would like to remind everyone that the ministers of agriculture and health have followed the dioxin crisis closely, and that they discussed the situation at the first available opportunity in meetings held in june. the aim was to provide a springboard and political direction for further vital action to be taken. the council adopted a set of conclusions on how this issue should be approached. the council particularly stressed that a swift, thorough and independently drafted report should be produced and, if required, that there should be changes to current legislation. the council also made a point of asking member states to ensure, through a comprehensive programme of checks, that eu legislation to guarantee health protection was being complied with. the council reminded everyone that, with the threat of a risk looming, the member states should use the early warning systems currently in place fully and in good time. furthermore, the council asked the commission to monitor the effective and uniform implementation of these eu early warning systems and, if it was appropriate, to make recommendations regarding how they might be improved, and give consideration to how much the existing monitoring systems should be extended to cover all situations. in addition, the council asked the commission to produce a report by the end of the year on the progress made in the establishment of a food veterinary office and its overall viability. on the basis of this report, we should also look at the need for a general improvement in food monitoring, including the possibility of food monitoring bodies. the council urged the commission to speed up the work already begun by its standing committee on feedingstuffs, which re-examines the legislation on animal feed and proposes, if deemed necessary, additions and amendments for tighter harmonisation. the council also urged the commission to take a critical look at eu legislation regarding the disposal of meat meal, animal waste and feed. moreover, the council emphasised that the manufacturers of animal feed were responsible for the safety of their products. anxious about the situation, the agriculture council in their meeting on monday this week returned to the issue to monitor developments. at the end of a new full debate on the issue, the council reaffirmed the conclusions drawn in june, and drew attention to the importance of unanimous political will on the part of the member states and the commission to act on these conclusions fully and immediately. the council considered the commission"s proposal for an exhaustive programme of legislation to be welcome in principle, a programme of which you are aware and whose purpose is to accommodate legislation on animal nutrition and measures relating to animal waste. the council made all the relevant decisions relating to procedure to ensure the speedy examination of the commission"s proposals, bearing in mind the aim the council has to finish the job, if at all possible, before the end of the year. i will take this opportunity to remind everyone that the co-decision procedure applies to debates on future commission proposals, and i would therefore ask the european parliament for their co-operation in honouring this very ambitious timetable. i can assure you that finland, as the country to hold the presidency, will, for its part, do everything within its power to ensure that work in the council is expedited in order for us to achieve a positive end result as speedily as possible during the finnish presidential term. before i end, i would like to say that the dioxin crisis has clearly shown that the effects of this type of occurrence are not restricted to the regions, or even countries, in which it began. the effects spread to every region of the community and extend also to our trading relations with third countries. this crisis has had an adverse effect on our exports, and the actions of some of our trading partners have in many respects exceeded justifiable limits as regards not only severity but also scope of application. we therefore have to rebuild consumer confidence both within the community and the world over and, at the same time, develop appropriate action to restore viable commercial relations. when it is a matter of people"s health, simply the best way to reassure the european people and the consumers who live outside europe is to act with transparency, clarity and a sense of accountability. aside from the programme of legislation, now available, as it is, to all, we are grateful to the commission for the consistent way in which it kept third countries and the world trade organisation informed and for its reports on community action to solve the dioxin crisis. it was an attempt to show that certified eu exports are safe. some positive results have been achieved, but the situation remains unsatisfactory in some cases, which means that the commission will have to continue with its efforts. in order to be successful these efforts need, and should receive, the support, not just of the council, but the european parliament also.
commission . – (de) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, esteemed colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. sincere thanks for affording me the opportunity to be able to inform you of the measures taken in relation to the recent dioxin crisis in belgium. i would also like to take this opportunity, however, to outline, in a somewhat broader context, some plans and projects which will help, firstly, to put this event in context and secondly, to provide us with the opportunity to give consideration as to where we must, and should, make improvements in the law concerning animal feed and foodstuffs. now to the reason itself. unfortunately, the commission was only informed of the problem by the belgian authorities on 27 may, but we immediately implemented a whole range of measures with a view to safeguarding the health of humans and animals. with the consent of the representatives of the constituent member states on the standing veterinary committee, firstly, emergency measures were laid down for the poultry industry as well as for poultry products of belgian origin. these were followed, several days later, by measures relating to the cattle, pig and milk sectors and products derived therefrom. in the meantime, however, it was possible, on the recommendation of the scientific committee, and following consultation with the standing veterinary committee, to lift the bans on milk and milk products. as far as the question of the source of the contamination is concerned, and i should point out that inquiries are still continuing in this regard, it can be assumed, based on the latest findings by the public prosecutor's office in gent, that the cause of the crisis was a serious product contamination which took place in january of this year. i should also point out that community officials arrived at the same conclusion during their inspections which were carried out on site between 8 and 11 june. looking ahead, one can assume that all products which are manufactured or marketed in the community today, be they of belgian origin or otherwise, will not be contaminated by this source. naturally, our work is continuing, and we will verify, as soon as the belgian authorities have provided us with the necessary information, whether the pcb certificate can also be applied to pork and beef. this would then allow us to make certain changes to the precautionary measures already taken. in order to limit the economic damage caused by the dioxin crisis, the commission has also introduced a number of measures. a regulation was passed on 16 june with the aim of maintaining exports at an acceptable level in spite of the more difficult conditions. pig breeders can also profit from having to keep their animals for extended periods. with regard to the poultry sector, a regulation was passed on 13 june allowing export grants for destination countries in addition to the middle east. as regards the milk sector, on 15 july, the management committee for milk decided to extend the period of use of butter and butter concentrates in bread, cakes, pastries and ice cream. a commission resolution for eight different state subsidies, which were announced and notified by the belgian authorities, was passed the day before yesterday. apart from the emergency measures which have already been adopted, the commission is, however, now working, and this is where the general context comes in, on proposals to improve and define community provisions relating to foodstuffs and animal feed more closely. these projects far exceed what is required. in connection with this, i would now like to cover certain issues which have already been discussed in parliament and which will continue to be discussed. firstly, i shall come to the question of foodstuffs legislation. here, we have already long since set about consolidating the texts of all hygiene-related regulations in the area of foodstuffs. this project is about to draw to a conclusion. on this point, we should also look to simplify matters from a legal viewpoint, which should serve to make the regulations relating to hygiene more transparent and ensure that they are applied better. in this regard, we have come to a definitive ruling on an issue which we have already discussed previously here in parliament, namely to what extent the decontamination process, modified and carried out under strictly controlled conditions, should apply to slaughtered hens and chickens as well as to red meat. another key issue is the traceability of animal products from the shop counter to the manufacturer. in the pig sector, of course, we have come a long way in this regard but the question still has to be asked regarding the extent to which this system should be applied to other sectors. throughout the community, four research laboratories are at our disposal for the testing and inspection of foodstuffs and the development of different research methods in connection with said testing and inspection. one of these, the laboratory in rome, has been specially commissioned to develop, where necessary, new and improved research methods. in addition, this laboratory offers a further education programme which is particularly concerned with the consideration of environmental contaminants. in the last council, which the president-in-office of the council has already talked about, political agreement was reached on different measures and, even prior to this in june, at the meeting of agricultural ministers, an agreement was reached on a regulation concerning biological farming and its expansion to include animal products. this is also one of the commission"s initiatives which should assist in improving production conditions and, above all, transparency for the consumer. another ambitious programme, which was last discussed on monday at the meeting of agricultural ministers, concerns substantial changes to current foodstuffs legislation. the commission is trying to deal with this matter as quickly as possible but, in this regard, we also need the support of the member states and, above all, of this parliament. we wish to concentrate on three different types of measures. in the first instance, we want to expand the list of animal feed raw materials which should not be used in mixed animal feed. secondly, we wish to establish maximum dioxin values for oils and fats as well as mixed animal feed products to which oils and fats are added. thirdly, we want to change the definition of animal feed raw materials, in particular with regard to oils and fats and animal products. in order to achieve this, we have a catalogue full of concrete proposals which have already been discussed by the committee responsible for animal feed products. i have forwarded this catalogue to the committee secretariat since it would simply take too long to go into all of these points here and now. therefore, i would like to mention a few points briefly. a legal basis must be created as regards the application of a safeguard clause in the event of emergencies which may occur in the european union in connection with animal feed products and which may pose a serious risk to the health of humans or animals and the environment. secondly, it is a question of making it incumbent upon the member states to implement a union-wide monitoring programme for contaminants in animal feed products. thirdly, we also wish to introduce an early-warning system for animal feed products, along the lines of the one already in place for foodstuffs. i would like to point out that the time frame for this has been altered and that it will now be in place as of september 1999. from this time, there will be a ban on the intermixing of contaminated animal feed raw materials and the exemption regulation for the regional use of animal feed products that have been contaminated due to local conditions will also cease to apply. finally, we want to inspect current provisions relating to the information concerning raw materials, in particular provisions concerning the labelling found on mixed animal feed products in the sense that, in future, a clear statement of quantity on all the raw materials used should be possible which will obviate the need for information on raw materials by categories. we then want to approve, in general terms, all mixed animal feed manufacturers as well as drafting an exhaustive positive list for approved animal feed raw materials. i would also like to point out that not all of the measures contained in this list, which i have forwarded to the committee secretariat, are completely new. this is the case, for example, as regards the approval of mixed animal feed manufacturers. we have already made a proposal along these lines in the past, but at that time the council did not accept the commission"s view and the proposal was therefore dropped. i would now like to talk about some trade issues with third countries. it was extremely important to inform these countries on the ensuing situation and of the precautionary measures taken by the commission and to keep them updated on an on-going basis. to this end, the competent services of the commission have been in regular contact with third countries and we used the wto/sps plenary session which took place on 7 and 8 july to report in detail on the current situation and the relevant legal documents. during this session, we also made it clear that the dioxin problems are not only a community issue. no country is free from dioxins and we can cite a whole number of examples of dioxin contamination which have made the headlines in many different parts of the world. it is to be hoped, therefore, that all countries, not only europe, can take some lessons from this. the majority of committee members at this session welcomed this report and thanked the commission and the sovereign authorities for the on-going and reliable exchange of information. a final word on the tests. the foodstuffs and veterinary office of dg xxiv has introduced a range of measures on site. even in the case of the first visit to belgium, it became clear that the crisis, unfortunately, had been poorly handled by the belgian authorities. this state of affairs could be attributed primarily to the lack of co-ordination between the various competent administrative authorities and the responsibilities of these authorities which were fragmented and unclear. in addition, it was revealed that community decisions concerning the withdrawal from the market of potentially contaminated products had been inadequately enforced by the belgian authorities. tests carried out in the netherlands, france, germany and spain also demonstrated certain loopholes in the procedures relating to the inspection of animal feed products. unfortunately, certain member states used the crisis in belgium as an excuse to erect trade barriers against non-contaminated belgian products, thereby infringing the principle of the free movement of goods. it has also transpired that other member states have also been supplied with reconditioned used oil which is belgian in origin. with regard to the infringement procedures, i can report to you that the commission has introduced, on the basis of article 226 of the ec treaty, summary infringement proceedings against belgium, since it failed in its obligation to inform the commission and member states immediately regarding the dioxin cases and did not fully transpose decision 1999/389. other issues concern the import barriers imposed by certain member states with regard to belgian products in general. the commission"s services met with the competent authorities to discuss in detail the uncertain legal and administrative provisions. these talks have led, in the meantime, to specific health protection measures being implemented and the lifting of temporary import barriers for a range of products. other problems persist of course, but the commission"s services are endeavouring to co-operate closely with those parties responsible at a national level, and we want to resolve the issues outstanding as quickly as possible. in conclusion, i would like to assure you that the commission will continue to do everything in its power to alleviate the consequences of this crisis as quickly as possible. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. mr president of the council! if i may, mr president-in-office, i would like to concentrate on you, because i think that the european council has been far too little at the centre of european discussions in recent years and has also been a little too modest in its refusal to take the potatoes out of the fire. in this case, after the unpleasant experience with bse, the commission is largely innocent, and the member states have once again played their game under the guise of subsidiarity and have not had the courage, for example, to finally draw up a european food framework directive, which could be a standard for europe to which the member states adhere. i do not want to go so far as to say that renationalisation has taken place in the last five years, but it is quite certain that the council has not become more courageous in the last five years when it came to setting european objectives which were both controllable and sanctioned, for example in the light of the consequences of the bse crisis. i am very sorry about that, and i fear that the only thing that will really move the council on this issue will be the agreement we have reached with the americans in these days, namely that the americans in europe will be able to check whether the hygiene standards we expect from the americans are being respected. then the council will move. the member states must stop playing their game and instead play a european game with european objectives and, of course, individual ways of achieving them. as a farmer, let me come to another point that worries me very much. there is a ruinous competition in the food industry worldwide. the americans are pushing the european market, and manufacturing profits are as low as ever. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, you said that the dioxin mixture was a mixture of unsuitable raw materials. maybe it's a translation issue. i consider this a criminal act that is ruining the peasants in my constituency! (applause from the centre) so let us speak a clear and unambiguous language for the consumers, but also for the farmers and ultimately for europe! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me begin by giving mr prodi some good advice, to him and to all his candidates who are seeking confirmation by this house in september. one of the questions that will certainly be asked by all the committees will be: what do you think about respecting the decisions of the european parliament? if mr prodi or one of the candidates says: 'oh, i don't really care about that', those candidates will have a problem. in his third speech to this house yesterday, mr prodi used the word consumer protection and health policy for the first time. that's a lot of money. however, he said in this context that he would provide for an i quote independent european food and drug agency. this house has decided after long discussions on bse that we do not want that. we do not want an independent agency, we want an authority which is subordinate to the commission and accountable to this house, to this european parliament. (applause from the centre) i hope that this message reaches mr prodi, so that he knows that he should be very careful in what he says in future. i asked mr fischler yesterday whether he had made this proposal. he gave me credible assurances that he did not. mr fischler, i believe you, and after your speech today, which i thought was excellent, i am even more convinced. let me say something to the president of the council: he has said in some places that the council is concerned, that the dioxin crisis has shown that the impact is on the whole of the union, and that the council wants to act in a transparent and responsible way. i believe you, mr president-in-office, but it would be something new if the council acted in a transparent and responsible way. i hope that the finnish presidency will actually achieve this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council has so far regularly veiled, delayed and swept under the carpet. (applause from the centre) let's get started right away. the council is aware that the individual countries are all acting in the same way. what happened in belgium - and it is a scandal that the government took six weeks to inform the commission - could have happened anywhere else. it was unfortunate that it happened in belgium. it could have happened in italy, germany, austria, we all know that. for example, have you done anything to improve inspections and controls? they have had a proposal from the european parliament on the table for over six months. i would like to express my appreciation to the commission for the details of this crisis. we have often found that the commission has not been at the forefront of the bse movement. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. everything you did and how you did it was excellent. that's not necessarily true of all the others. what are the consequences of this? mr fischler has mentioned some of them. he has pointed to legislation that is needed. yes, we need them, we need a different feed legislation, there is no question about that. we must prohibit, for example, the use of waste products in animal feed. we're talking about food and the animals that are fed it. waste products are not included. no, of course not, mr fischler, there can be no limit values for dioxins. the limit must be zero for dioxin and pcbs, no question. we must therefore be very careful in the formulation and the language. there's something else that comes with it. let us have the courage to address dioxin as a whole problem. will there be a dioxin register in the european union and worldwide? for example, will it be examined where emissions from waste incineration plants occur, where there are other emissions of dioxins, which are present in the soil, which are present in the grass that the animals eat? we know very well that it is not just animal feed, but our natural environment. so, please create a dioxin register! this is certainly just as necessary. i would like to make a few comments on the controls. if we do not ensure that the member states carry out checks better, if the commission is not allowed to carry out checks without being notified, but has to wait for the permission of a member state such as belgium or another member state, then we can forget about it. we must change the control system and agricultural policy as a whole. if we believe that we can make a high profit from waste products as cheaply as possible and if we want to do so, then we will have such cases again and again. we must change this in the european union and we must change this with our partners outside the union. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are once again dealing with incredible sloppiness and criminal behaviour, and in this there are certainly parallels with past events. the difference is that the commission has learned from the experience and acted more quickly than in the past, and some member states - in this particular case belgium - still take preventive consumer protection too lightly. mr president-in-office of the council, after hearing you this morning, i am hopeful that there has been a qualitative leap in the council, and i hope that this will be documented by the action and decision of the next few months. the commission has now put forward a number of good proposals, some of which we have already called for in parliament in the bse era. so, mr fischler, you can count on the full cooperation and support of parliament on the question of the open declaration, the protection clause or the positive list. but i also say that i find it absurd that member states which in the past have never complied with european safety standards, for example, now want to ban the use of animal flour in general, or that the commission now, in a working document on the question of the use of oils and fats at the same time, is generally discussing the question of food waste. then we're going from functioning recycling systems to unsolved waste problems. i am against inflationism in the agencies, and then we will no longer need the commission. the point is: tell parliament what you need in veterinarians, in inspectors, make sure that the tendering procedures work faster and that the allocation of posts within the commission is more flexible, then we can set up an improved system within the commission, also under the control of the commission! we in parliament will ensure that the co-decision procedure is carried out swiftly and promptly, in a proper manner and without panic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! the commission is not prepared to accept this. we must take note of the appalling fact that there has obviously been a systematic use of toxic substances in the feed. you have mentioned the contamination of products as the starting point of this crisis, but there is still no accident to blame. obviously, this contamination may have been systematic, and therefore the full force of the law must be applied. the criminal elements who abuse people for final disposal must be punished. many of the demands you have made are still pending from the bse committee. i hope that they will now be implemented swiftly. the question of maximum levels, mr fischler, must be linked to a ban on waste, otherwise this possibility of systematic disposal will not be stopped. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i respect your individual conduct of the sitting, but could you perhaps see to it that it is standardized to the extent that after the end of speaking time there is an acoustic warning with the hammer before the microphone is turned off, so that you are not simply interrupted in the middle of the sentence?
madam president, i would have come to approve the minutes this morning if i had seen that annex 3 had not been distributed among our seats. we found a report with two annexes in our seats this morning, and the third annex has not been distributed. they were in the drawers during the morning. i would like to protest against this and i would like to ask what the reason is. it is a part of the approval of the minutes that all three annexes are present, not just two. secondly, i would point out that annex iii contains the composition of the delegations' presidencies, and i would ask you whether yesterday, when we voted on this subject - and this is what apparently happened - whether the lists with the names and the composition were also available yesterday, or whether we voted yesterday without knowing the composition, which i would consider an unprecedented act if there had been no corresponding submission!
in writing . i could only agree with some reservations to the european parliament's resolution on the european council summit in cologne on 3 and 4 june 1999 under the german presidency. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. it is a very important difference between helmut kohl, who makes policy in the german and european interest, and who coordinates with his partners in the member states beforehand and thereby achieves concrete results, and mr schröder, who tries to do so. the world has noticed that he can only move awkwardly on the international stage. this was particularly evident in the lack of progress in tackling the main problem in europe, the lack of jobs and the inadequate employment situation. in 1994, a german president of the eu council, helmut kohl, had set a milestone in essen by agreeing the first elements of a coordinated european employment strategy. on this basis, the luxembourg employment summit will provide considerable guidance. jean-claude juncker pointed to ways of changing labour market structures to ensure higher levels of employment through greater efficiency. the full-blown announcement by mr schröder that the european employment pact was in place was, as usual, premature. the plan was to have an opulent menu; the result was meager food. the so-called 'cologne process' is simply a means of initiating a macroeconomic dialogue, i.e. talks between the council, the commission, the social partners and the european central bank. this is a fatal reminder of the 'aliances for labour' in germany, which has failed to become an 'aliances for rhetoric'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the unemployed, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the citizens, especially those without work, are tired of meaningless rituals. the kosovo conflict has covered a lot in a short time. but in the long run, nothing can be hidden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european elections have given the necessary thunderous slap in the face: the outgoing council presidency was not a great one, it was a flop. - kosovo
in writing . the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying in germany: "what i don't know doesn't excite me". so what i don't know doesn't bother me. this may be considered correct in the private sector, but it cannot be when it comes to consumer protection. the dioxin scandal has once again shown that an open information policy is a prerequisite for effective and comprehensive consumer protection. the irresponsible behaviour of the belgian authorities, the withholding of information on dioxin-contaminated feed and food, have seriously undermined public confidence. the consumer must be able to rely on the fact that he is not being offered food which is harmful to his health. this applies to feed as well as to farmers. they get their food from industrial farms and have no way of checking these products for contamination. they too must trust that the food is safe. this makes clear the responsibility of the competent authorities responsible for the control of products. secondly, it is becoming clear that the dioxin scandal is not a problem, not a mistake on the part of agriculture. it is a failure of industry alone. the farmers are the victims of this scandal, along with the consumers. they have to bear heavy losses through no fault of their own and also bear the burden of regaining the lost confidence of consumers. healthy food is the prerequisite for healthy animals and thus for healthy food. it is also a prerequisite for a prosperous farming economy with good farm incomes. food and feed, like other products, can be traded across borders in the european union. nevertheless - or for that very reason - it is important that the member states and the european union ensure consumer safety. european standards exist for the food sector, ensuring effective control of products. such monitoring must also be achieved in the feed sector. the dioxin scandal has made it clear that if feed is the first link in the food chain to be contaminated, food control is too late.
madam president, there is an annex to the minutes today which states that the chairs of the joint committees with the associated countries have already been elected. but if you read the rules of procedure, you will see that article 170 (6) states that the formation of joint committees - that is, something different from the interparliamentary delegations - means that the formation of joint committees with the associated countries must be done under the same conditions as the formation of committees. that's the way we've been doing it. that means elections will have to be held, as in the committees. the fact that there are collusions between the groups is another matter. so, in the case of interparliamentary delegations, the plenary decides, but in the case of the joint committees with the associated countries, i think that article 170 (6) applies. i'll have to make a note of that. there is a second point i would like to make. the deadline for submitting proposals was 10 a.m. yesterday. the proposals, the text on which we voted, were not received until after 10 a.m. yesterday, so i must say that the whole vote is questionable. i ask you to examine both points and to inform me at the next meeting.
madam president, i have a question on the minutes of wednesday, more specifically on annex 3, which was distributed only yesterday afternoon and which contains the proposals for appointments to the boards of the interparliamentary delegations. i would like to know whether the printing error, which is binding, has been corrected in the meantime. it was said that mr sumberg, of the epp group, had become vice-chairman of two of these delegations, for japan and china. it is correct that mr jarzembowski has become vice-chairman of the japanese delegation. has that been corrected and is that binding?
madam president, i should like to begin by pointing out that it is apparently the german translation that has not worked. i would like to make a second point: are you aware of the significance of mr posselt's statement? if what mr posselt has said is true, we do not have properly elected presidents and vice-presidents of delegations. this is an extremely serious matter and it must therefore be dealt with urgently. i ask you to clarify and deal with this matter as quickly as possible, because we are going into the summer break with a situation that is completely unresolved with regard to the delegations, and this must not happen in this parliament! (applause from the centre)
- (de) madam president, with regard to the minutes, i would just like to point out that the minutes of friday's sitting give the wrong impression of a speech i made. i had in fact stated that according to our rules of procedure, joint committees had to elect their bureau in a different way from delegations but similar to that of parliamentary committees. the minutes only mention my protest at the late delivery of the documents. i ask that it be made clear that we must apply the same electoral procedure in joint committees and parliamentary committees.
commission - (es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on friday the commission received the second report of the committee of independent experts, which analyses the commission's administrative management and makes proposals for its reform. i don't need to remind you of the political significance of this day. this commission, the outgoing commission, held what was probably its last meeting on wednesday and therefore did not have the opportunity, in the short time that has elapsed since the document was handed over, to analyse its contents in depth and to adopt definitive positions on this report. it will be for the new commission to make a more detailed assessment of this second report and, in this connection, the vice-president responsible for the reform of the commission, mr kinnock, will answer the most concrete questions about the future throughout the debate. that said, let me make a few brief comments from the outgoing commission on the work of the committee of independent experts on this second report. first of all, i would like to emphasize that the commission has cooperated in a loyal and constructive way with the work of the committee, in the same way as it has been committed to parliament from the very beginning of this work. when parliament proposed the establishment of the committee and defined its terms of reference, the commission agreed with this proposal and with the consequences and responsibilities that might follow. this was the case with the first report of the committee of independent experts and the events which followed its presentation and which led to the resignation of the commission. i shall not dwell on these events because this parliament is too familiar with them and i think they are now ancient history. however, looking ahead, i would like to say that we believe that this second report makes a positive contribution to the reform process which the next commission chaired by professor prodi will have to face. i would like to speak about that aspect. it is a debate on the future of the european union and on strengthening its institutions, in particular the european commission, which plays, no doubt, a central role in the construction of europe. there are certainly lessons to be learned from this second report. it emphasizes management weaknesses but, for the first time, it also mentions, in our view timidly, the causes of these weaknesses. in some cases, these are regulatory limits or obligations which the commission has been forced to assume from an institutional point of view in unforeseen or insufficiently anticipated circumstances. moreover, something which already appeared in the first report appears again and again, namely the limitation of the human resources available in relation to the tasks assumed by the commission at the request of public opinion or the council and, sometimes, of parliament itself. i therefore think that this report is essentially analytical. with its critical content, it once again proves what i have always observed as a commissioner and what i want to say in this house, namely the human and professional quality and integrity of the men and women who are part of the european civil service, who not only work there but also show personal dedication. some cases go the other way. there have been cases of abuse, but they are very rare, extremely rare. and it has always seemed to me unfair that because of a few rare cases, generalizations have been made in the past with regard to the european civil service. there are honest and worthy officials in the european commission who want to work with you to overcome the crisis that occurred last year. the european commission is by its very nature the sum, the sedimentation and the summary of the good and the bad of the history of european integration. it is true that the european commission as an institution represents more than forty years of european integration. but 40 years of experience is also undoubtedly a burden, and sometimes a negative one. the european commission has had to face new and more complex tasks every day, and it is true - i want to admit this without any qualms - that we have had difficulty in adapting to the new challenges. this has undoubtedly been our great responsibility. modernization and reform are therefore necessary and must be carried out if we want the commission to be able to play its essential role not only as guardian of the treaties but also as initiator of the decision-making process and as good manager of the programmes and projects assigned to it. in recent months, everyone - parliament, the member states, the media - has said they want a strong and independent commission for the future. i hope that statement is sincere, although i have to tell you that i sometimes think it is not entirely so. the report recommends a number of changes, amounting to 90 recommendations. this is not the time to analyse them in detail, but i would like to emphasize that the problems relating to the allocation of budgetary resources, the protection of the union's financial interests, the fight against fraud, contract management or decentralization are issues which require solutions and responses which require the active collaboration of the european parliament and above all of the member states meeting in the council of ministers. why would you do that? the recommendations, as we have read in the report, are of a very different nature, madam president. some involve practical changes and can be achieved quickly. other involve changes in management mechanisms. they can be achieved, but as my colleague mr kinnock will explain, it will take some time. in other cases, these are profound, sometimes radical changes to the legal and regulatory framework and the commission cannot do them alone. and finally, others, those with more important content, those which pose more problems, even require the reform of the treaties, or sometimes even the reform of the constitutions of certain member states. i am not hiding from you, madam president, that as a european citizen, as from next week, i will be watching with great citizenly curiosity the attitude that the member states and the european parliament will adopt when the new intergovernmental conference opens in helsinki. because it is obvious that the conclusions of the committee of independent experts are to be applauded. i think some of them are necessary, very necessary and can be done, others will take time. but there are others for which either parliament is putting pressure where it needs to be put, and the weight of pressure will not be on the european commission this time but essentially on the member states, or there could be a huge disappointment. i would like to stress that the most radical reforms require a reform of the treaties. in my humble opinion, as a commissioner with a long experience, i am curious to see what will be, at this precise moment, the moment of truth, the attitude that we will all adopt in the face of a new model of organization of european integration. other subjects are old and recurrent, they are not new but are the result of the realities, contradictions and sedimentation of successive political commitments that ultimately form the photograph of the european commission. we are at a crucial moment. perhaps we have not been able to explain it, perhaps we have not been able to do it, perhaps we have lacked the courage, but something has been started with the outgoing commission. and i would like to conclude by saying that this debate is good and positive. the other day we briefly analysed the work of the committee of independent experts. we think we can do a lot of things. perhaps we are paying a heavy price for not having been able to do so, but i would ask this parliament to analyse the second report of the committee calmly. i would ask you, after mr kinnock's explanations, to understand that the commission will need time, but also to be a little more generous this time. give time to the prodi team, who have to do a job that is probably more difficult, to complete the mission that we failed to complete. i think this is a constructive way of understanding, thinking about the future and especially about the citizens, the outcome of the crisis. perhaps the commission will be a winner, as will you. in this way, the citizens who did not go to the polls this time, probably because they could not understand what was happening in brussels, will adopt a different attitude in the next european elections. let me be frank, i have tried to convey to you the positive attitude we have in the outgoing commission and to ask you to please remain calm, serene and a little generous in order to allow the new team to launch reforms which we believe are absolutely necessary. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, mr vice-president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of these debates is of great importance. it is not just the european commission's ability to function that is at stake, but also the credibility of the european institutions. and i do not understand the criticisms that the vice-president has made of us, of parliament, when he says that we have not shown the necessary patience with the european commission and that we should be more patient with the prodi commission. we have shown great patience. we want to work together in a good way, but we don't want to be the ones who bring each other down and accuse each other. we believe, however, that it is our duty to ensure that the european institutions, the commission, the parliament and the council of ministers work in such a way that the european citizens take the european union seriously and accept its construction. that is why the lessons you are teaching the european parliament in your speech are totally out of place, mr marin. i have little sympathy for such statements. in recent weeks, the european union has seemed to be a place of mismanagement, nepotism and scandal. this is generally a false impression, and we reject it. however, we also say that whenever examples of mismanagement, irregularities or criminal acts appear in the european union, we must act firmly and make corrections. on the other hand, we also say, and i agree with you, commissioner, that the overwhelming majority of the commission's officials are working in a competent manner, that the commission is striving to work towards the goal of european unification. we will not allow the overwhelming majority of our civil servants to be defamed and we, the european people's party/european democrats, support these civil servants. it is rather a question of drawing the necessary consequences from these shortcomings. last thursday my group, with the support of other groups, succeeded in getting the committee on budgetary control - this was a decision taken at the conference of group chairmen - to be responsible for this and also for the report of the committee of wise men. there is therefore the possibility of a detailed discussion in the committee on budgetary control. it is also necessary - and i am addressing this to mr kinnock - to establish a body within which we can discuss with confidence the adoption of concrete steps. we are prepared to go down that road with you if your appointments are confirmed this wednesday. but it is necessary to undertake comprehensive reforms. consider the case of van buitenen. the commissioner responsible stated during the hearings that he had absolutely nothing to do with the transfer of mr van buitenen. what kind of management is there when a procedure of such importance is not dealt with by the commissioner responsible? this is a highly political issue! it is the commissioner who must deal with it! (applause) i would like to thank i would like to touch on another aspect. what must be the attitude of poor paul van buitenen, who found himself in a legal vacuum, so to speak; what's this man to do? mr kinnock has proposed that in future such accusations should be referred to olaf - i agree with you - but it is also appropriate to create a trusted parliamentary body, composed of three to five members of parliament, to which commission officials or officials working in other institutions could turn when it is necessary to highlight large-scale legal irregularities. such a body would help to ensure that corrections are made. this is the commission's responsibility to the european parliament. we will have to discuss this in detail with the president-designate of the commission, romano prodi, and we will have to get results. mr prodi has already made important concessions and i would ask you to abandon any form of arrogance towards the european parliament within the commission and to provide it with all the information to which it is entitled. it is clear that there may be confidential documents. responsibilities must be clearly defined within the commission. only when the notion of responsibility is established will the pressure to achieve acceptable behaviour be there. citizens, and not just parliament, have the right to a response within an appropriate timeframe when they address the commission. i know from my parliamentary experience that citizens wait for months or even years for an answer and when they get one, it is not even justified. this has to change! but we'll discuss it together. the european union is in a delicate phase and i am convinced that we need a european commission capable of acting. that is why we are telling the commission in office, and also the commission which may gain the confidence of parliament on wednesday, that we are prepared to cooperate fully with it and that we need convincing solutions. if the commission's work is successful, then it will be shared by all. that is why i wish the commission success, but please do not blame us for not being patient enough and do not tell us that you will do this and not that. that the commission and parliament work together in the interests of the unification of our continent. we, as members of the european people's party/european democrats, are determined to take this path with you, if you wish, and in the interests of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - mr president, i am glad that this house has allowed the commission to intervene in this debate. the report of the committee of independent experts is clearly extensive, both in its size and scope and in its importance, and i know that at this stage parliament will not attempt to refer in detail to the many well-founded comments and conclusions contained in it. however, this house will be entitled to expect, in the course of the reform process, that the commission will provide concrete answers to the committee's recommendations. in this area, as in many others, deeds speak louder than words and as far as i am concerned, as far as the president and the commission are concerned, this is a maxim and a reality which will shape the commission's reform mission from the outset, if this house decides so during the vote on wednesday. mr president, the committee of independent experts has provided us with a comprehensive and constructive report which shows impressive insight and makes practical proposals for progress which is deep, broad and indeed essential. his diagnosis presents an institution that is outdated, and in a way overwhelmed, by demands that are as numerous as they are changing and which should have been met, over the years, by new standards and methods of management, practice and openness. that was not the case. the report says that the world has changed around the commission while it has remained largely unchanged. the past was the rule, convention paralysed action. of course, a diagnosis is not an excuse, it is at best an explanation to suggest a cure. this is how the report is perceived by the commission, the present commission whose days are numbered and the commission appointed. this is why the commission - and, as the committee emphasises, the member states and this house - must use it as a charter for change, as a necessary prescription for healing. this is the main justification for this report by the committee of independent experts. as the committee acknowledges in several places, some of the necessary changes have already taken place and some are in the offing. the fact that he admits it is very encouraging. it demonstrates a clear alignment between the committee's recommendations and reforms already undertaken or pending. but it is not to be used to achieve lasting satisfaction. to the great frustration of those who have campaigned for reform in the commission and in this house (and we have just heard mr dell'alba), the progress achieved so far has been sporadic and has not been managed and implemented as a well-established programme of change. the reform was therefore neither far enough nor fast enough nor deep enough. its approach was such that it offered neither the explanation nor the reorientation necessary to gain an understanding of its aims and results. it has therefore not stimulated the will of the many quality employees who, as the report repeatedly points out, work in the commission's departments. even those who were interested in the changes and who had committed themselves to them did not feel the urgency or rather - and this is crucial, mr president - did not feel invested by the reform. the sum of modernisation efforts has therefore not been powerful enough to replace an archaic and deficient culture with the practices and perceptions of what is generally called the new management of public affairs, as it has developed over the past twenty years in several other modern administrations. that has to change and it will change. mr president, i fully understand the view expressed by the committee in its concluding remarks when it says that no single measure can overcome the problem of mentality but i think that a clear and comprehensive reform strategy; effective mechanisms for setting and achieving high-level targets; the quality of public service and the sound use of funds; vocational training in management techniques and ethics; promotion based strictly on merit; fair, firm and reliable disciplinary procedures; and the fact that the emphasis is always on professionalism and integrity within the college and departments can shape a mindset. this is not a wish list but an outline of the changes that will be designed, the changes that will be implemented. in carrying out these different tasks, we will be able to benefit from the commitment of the many members of the commission services who, as the committee points out, sincerely want to contribute to a radical improvement. the reform effort is therefore in line with the views of the majority of commission staff, from the highest level to the newest arrivals. however, some may not share the widespread desire for improvement. they would be well advised to take stock of the political forces and public opinion that have triggered the change and events facing the institution i represent, as indeed all european institutions. i am also sure that those who fear that reform will cause insecurity, discomfort, will eventually, after reflection, understand that change is the way to safety. institutions, administrations and businesses that fail to anticipate and respond productively to new demands are doomed and condemn the people who work for them to the resulting insecurity and turmoil. in the light of all these considerations and the statements heard today in this house, i undertake, on behalf of the commission designated, to treat this report as an essential element of the reform proposals put forward by the commission. the reform strategy proposed in february will therefore address all the issues raised, propose the appropriate measures and set out the means to take these measures. i am also committed to stepping up the re-engineering of the commission's financial management and control systems and to taking full account of the specific recommendations of the committee on all the subjects discussed, including those raised by the speakers who have so far taken part in the debate on grants or on other subjects. in particular, the commission is committed to a systematic shift from the traditional ex ante financial control to an integrated financial management and control system that clearly defines, controls and strengthens the individual responsibilities of officials. in the same spirit, the commission will respond to the report's recommendation by setting up an internal audit service - as recommended in the treaty - and reiterates its commitment to strengthening the financial units in all directorates-general. immediate development, control over technical assistance offices is strengthened and specified and a radical reform will ensure a clear definition of the essential public service functions of commission officials and a truly supervised and accountable management of the implementing agencies. a comprehensive review of staff policy will take place, focusing in particular on the weaknesses identified in the report and other documents - including the severe report published by the commission itself - namely recruitment, discipline, and career and training. the committee of independent experts made a number of arguments in favour of the establishment of a commission on standards in public life at european level. the house will know that the council and parliament will have to discuss this matter just as much as the commission. i personally, however, believe that the functions set out by the committee should be fulfilled by an appropriate existing body or by a new organisation. i therefore hope that all the european institutions will be prepared to act on this basis. i am convinced that the committee of wise men is not concerned with the name of such a body. what really matters is that its public standards functions are carried out. the commission of the future must be an independent, permanent and competent public service that constantly applies the principles of accountability, efficiency and transparency. moreover, the values underpinning the institution must focus on ethics in sound management, the proper use of public funds, clear communication, merit and duty to the citizens and taxpayers of the european union. my colleagues and i share the same strong commitment to these objectives and the necessary practical changes to achieve them. we are not promising immediate results. we promise to make constant efforts. we will achieve the progress that the peoples of the union deserve and have a right to expect. if parliament's vote gives us the chance, we will demonstrate this, not in words but in deeds.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been eagerly awaiting the second report of the wise men and i do not hide from you that i would have preferred to have it before the hearing of the commissioners-designate and not the other way around. however, it is now available and it was announced that it is not a continuation of the first report, that is to say, it does not contain any new revelations. it is much more a model for the reform of the european commission than the one announced by the future president, romano prodi, and which mr kinnock has just confirmed in a very comprehensive way. the report also makes it very clear that a deep restructuring is needed and that making only one-off changes is not enough. even if the subject of the second report of the wise men, "cultural practices and commission procedures", seems somewhat theoretical, the question of better use, better control and therefore better protection of community finances is the common thread running through the areas analysed in depth. recommendations are being made, recommendations which parliament has already, to a large extent, made as demands on the outgoing commission. will they be followed? mr. kinnock, we'll have to take your word for it. i am thinking here of the question of the financial regulation and its application, of effective controls, of the independence of financial controls, of the meaning of discharge and, above all, of the question of the clear definition of the tasks and responsibilities assumed by the departments, officials and commissioners. while there is a clear emphasis on ethical responsibility, a new culture is required that is not limited to the secretary-general, the cabinets or the commissioners themselves. when the commission's code of conduct is considered insufficient and the committee of experts calls for a stricter code of conduct in management, when the disciplinary procedure is changed and the penalties applied, then our requirements will be taken into account and we must monitor their implementation. as regards the fight against fraud, the call by the five wise men for the appointment of a european public prosecutor is a sensation, and rightly so. it does not detract from the importance of this point to say that the sages were not the first to put forward this requirement. i would like to mention the fabra vallés and bösch reports and the reports i have drawn up on criminal proceedings in the field of the protection of the financial interests of the union. this is a central issue that must be resolved if we are to successfully protect ourselves against fraud and corruption at the expense of the european taxpayer. the objective set by the five wise men - the creation of a european public prosecutor's office within a year - is ambitious but quite achievable if good will is shown. parliament, the council and the commission, working closely together, succeeded in setting up the new anti-fraud body olaf in three months. the next step must follow. this will also be the yardstick by which the new commission will be judged in its willingness to undertake reforms, as public opinion and parliament demand. the report of the five wise men is of no use, but in future parliament will again have to assume its own control function and will no longer have to turn to the outside. we want a strong commission, but we should also be a strong parliament. in any case, the second report of the wise men must be prepared by the committee responsible for the plenary and to do this we need all the documents and information which the wise men also have. i would also like to ask commissioner kinnock a question, which was not answered during the hearings: will the committee on budgetary control also receive the documents made available to the wise men? i believe that we can then work together towards a bright european future.
- (de) mr president, the president-designate of the commission, romano prodi, spoke in july of a revolution in the way we work, which must now be implemented. the wise men say that we need a new culture of responsibility in europe and i would add, mr kinnock, that it would be nice at this stage to continue the hearings of the past weeks, because there are still some areas of doubt that need to be clarified and we would like to know precisely how this will work in the future and what form it will take. the second report of the wise men contains some 90 recommendations that merit careful analysis and discussion. i would like to comment on four of them. first, the recommendations on the code of conduct of the commission. the committee of wise men states that they have not yet been fully incorporated in the commission's proposals. when i look at the way the wise men formulate these recommendations, i see that there is evidence of this and it is surprising that the commission has not even applied them in the past. as far as olaf is concerned, i think it is necessary to clarify that the strict independence of olaf, which we all want, must include an independent operational capacity. this refers to the number of available staff and this should eventually lead us to a european public prosecutor's office. it is very interesting to note that the committee of experts states in its conclusions that the community administration tends to give priority to creative and negotiating tasks to the detriment of management and control tasks. i think that is precisely the point: we must learn to practice effective management at european level and this will only succeed - and this must be made very clear to the commission - if parliament, the commission and the council manage to find solutions together. in this connection i would like to make another point: in many policy areas we have committees in which representatives of the member states have management and control powers which are, however, used to satisfy their own interests. i would not like to prejudge the debates we will be having on thursday, but i would like to make it clear that the discussion on the creation of the kosovo reconstruction agency, for example, is going in exactly this direction, both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the administrative structures envisaged. it can't happen like that. that is why i referred to the debates on thursday. i hope that the new commission will welcome these two points put forward by parliament, namely the legal basis and the question of the future management and accountability structures of the agency for the reconstruction of kosovo. otherwise we would be creating new structures which would be, at their core, tainted by the mistakes of the past. let me add one last thing: the committee of experts is critical of the fact that the council has applied the discharge procedure in the past in such a careless way. it is crucial that the council itself should adopt a new culture of responsibility in this area too, in the interests of europe. the commission has finally acted in many areas. however, in the context of the bse crisis, the commission has only acted when it has been put under pressure, it has only acted on these issues under pressure from public opinion. i say to you: pay more attention to the european parliament than to some of your advisers, including those in your own ranks. this will be useful for the european project in which we all believe and want to see success.
- mr fitzsimons, as president, i am giving the speakers a little more time anyway. but when i signal with the hammer that your time is up, i will ask you in future to comply. it is impossible to stick to a schedule if you take up other people's time to speak, because that is what you have just done.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0002/99) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation (com (98) 0772 - c4-0073/1999 - 1998/0358 (cod)) (ex 1998/0358 (syn)) laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the next item is the minutes. (the sitting was closed at 8.52 p.m.)
president-designate of the commission. - (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as in the previous debates, this fourth debate in parliament is taking place at a time when a particular crisis is shaking the international community. as was the case last spring in the balkans, the democratic will of the people of east timor is being flouted today, with the result that there is great suffering and serious threats to peace. until we are able to resolve this situation, i think we should have regrets. in the last few days i have used all the authority i have been given, even temporarily, to contact the indonesian authorities. i have a telephone conversation with president habibie at 2 p.m. today and i think we should put as much pressure as possible, make every effort to put an end to this situation. (applause) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the vote on the new commission. i have explained to you on several occasions why i believe that our programme is the right one to lead the european commission for the next five years. you got to know its members, both through the written answers they gave to your questionnaires and through the hearings you had with each of them. i want to pay tribute to the dignity and professionalism that characterized these hearings. i hope that your vote tomorrow will mark a new beginning in the relations between our two institutions because now - if the commission is approved - it is time, after so many months, to get to work. together we must put europe at the service of the citizens. we must restore citizens' confidence in europe and in a european vision that puts their needs first. i want our two institutions and the council - the triangle that governs the european union - to work together, serving the european citizens truly and effectively. i am determined to transform the commission into a modern and efficient administration which has learned from recent experience and put its house in order. the reform process already under way in the commission is only at its beginning. in february 2000, mr kinnock, who is here with me, will present a comprehensive reform programme which will take careful account of the second report of the committee of independent experts. it goes without saying that we will consult and inform the european parliament about the progress made in this area. the commission intends to become much more open. the time for transparency has come. i want europe to be no longer done behind closed doors and to be exposed to the full scrutiny of the public. i want the public to be able to look over my shoulder and see that the commission is really dealing with the issues that concern them most. i mean, i'm gonna keep going the way i started. wherever possible, the new commission will seek to match european best practice. there are many examples for us to follow, and we will try to follow the best of them. for example, i am considering keeping my correspondence in a public register so that it can be examined at will, as is done in the more open countries of europe. and the new commission will make much greater efforts to communicate properly with the citizens of europe, giving them free access to information. the democratic health of the european union and the obligation to be accountable to all citizens require transparency. i would now like to come to what this new commission will do, if it is given the mandate, after having spoken of the method. i would also like to refer to the programmes which have already been discussed in previous speeches in this parliament and which are still valid. in january, as agreed, the commission will present the policies it proposes to pursue over the next five years, and this presentation will be closely followed by the presentation of the work programme for the year 2000. it is also essential that we have a big policy debate at the beginning of each year. i know you share my opinion on this. i know that you share my choice and that is why in future i intend to present an annual political and economic report on the state of the european union. this report will summarise the information currently contained in a series of - sometimes uncoordinated - commission studies, and this should be a unifying element in our policy-making process. i hope that together we can organise the political debate and the process of mutual consultation in a much more coherent way than before. today i would like to give you a very quick overview of three fundamental challenges we are facing: the enlargement of the european union and how it affects our relations with our neighbours. reform of the institutions of the european union and preparation for the next intergovernmental conference. strengthening economic growth, job creation and sustainable development. we are the heirs of a bold and visionary project and when we plan for the future we must remember all that we have already achieved. we have created a customs union and a single market based on the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. we have built an economic and monetary union with a single currency. we have laid the foundations for a political union with common institutions and a strong european parliament elected by universal suffrage. what we must now build is a union of hearts and minds, based on a shared sense of a community of destiny, on a consciousness of a common european citizenship. we're from different countries. we speak different languages. we have different historical and cultural traditions and we must preserve these diversities. but today we are looking for a shared identity - a new european soul. the vision of the founding fathers fifty years ago was to create a community based on peace, stability and prosperity. this european ideal is as important to citizens today as it was then. as i stand before you today, peace, stability and prosperity are still our great common goal. this is why enlargement of the european union is both a difficult and an extraordinary challenge. our attitude to enlargement is a mirror reflecting our deep political convictions. can we be satisfied with having achieved peace, stability and prosperity only for ourselves, the 15 member states? i do not think so, and the balkan episode proves that it is not possible. the question is therefore: will we have the courage, the vision and the ambition to offer real prospects of peace, stability and prosperity to an enlarged union, to those outside and those who will not be inside the union, to the european countries close to us? this century has seen devastating conflicts that have divided our continent. we, the citizens of the european union, have turned our backs on them and we must help our neighbours to walk in the same direction. i'm not saying it's going to be easy. it requires a comprehensive strategy defining how, over the next 25 years, we will expand the european union from 15 to 20, 25 or even 30 member states. this process will require many sacrifices, many changes and transformations between us and within us. this strategy must take account of three things. firstly, the fact that enlargement will inevitably take place in several stages: some countries will join before others. secondly, the specific needs of those countries which will have to wait longer before joining. thirdly, how will this enlargement process affect our other neighbours whose accession is not on the agenda but with whom we wish to have close and constructive relations, which are also necessary for peace and prosperity? i would like to make very clear on the first point: we must have a political vision, not a technocratic one. we must define a genuine enlargement strategy which brings together, beyond accession, the european nations into a single family. this means, first of all, that we must seriously consider in helsinki the possibility of defining the date of accession for the countries which are best prepared, even if this means that they will have to be given long transitional periods to solve their political, social and economic problems. this also has implications for the next intergovernmental conference, to which i shall return in a moment. then there is the fundamental question of the impact of enlargement on our common policies. the more we enlarge, the more difficult it will become to define what really needs to be dealt with at european level and what needs to be dealt with at a lower level. we really must implement subsidiarity, which is a basic principle of europe. i do not claim to be able to answer that today, but we must have the courage to face this problem seriously and honestly. the second point is that we must be creative and resourceful in responding to the needs of those countries for whom membership is a longer-term prospect. i am thinking of closer cooperation with these countries, perhaps by allowing them 'virtual membership' - excuse the expression but it is difficult to find a better one, it is a didactic expression anyway - in certain areas as a prelude to real membership which would take place much later. they could, for example, be offered the fullest possible participation in economic and monetary union, new forms of security cooperation and new forms of relations, adapted to their needs, with the european institutions, in which they would be consulted or would have observer status, in an empirical and specific way. the situation in the balkans deserves our particular attention. the prospect of these countries joining the european union is not imminent, but we must use it to put them on the path to peaceful coexistence and closer interregional partnership. i say it clearly: the peoples of these countries must settle their conflicts themselves before they can join the european union. they must not think that they can bring it into the union and have it dealt with by us, but we must help them to solve it. however, they are undeniably in need of our help, and i would like to stress the special responsibility of the european commission in the huge and necessary reconstruction effort. our citizens expect the european union to take the moral and political lead, particularly in a region that is right on our doorstep. we can't afford to let them down. i am also concerned that the debate on the future of the balkans has already lost its force and dramatic character in a few weeks, as if we were somehow trying to put it on the back burner. the third element of the strategy must be a clear and comprehensive approach to our closest neighbours, whose contribution to the peace and stability of enlarged europe is vital. such a strategy will only succeed if it is inclusive. we all - whether the european union, the candidate countries or our neighbours in the enlarged europe - must work together to forge our common destiny: a wider european space, offering peace, stability and european prosperity. we must create a new european order. this should include 'strategic partnerships' with russia and ukraine, adapted to the geopolitical dimension of these countries. this new strategy should also include a 'partnership of cultures' - a term i am tempted to suggest for a new, more ambitious, much more ambitious commitment to the mediterranean, where we europeans are determined to promote a new form of exemplary collaboration between the peoples of the three religions of jerusalem, to oppose a resolute 'no' to the struggle between civilizations. i must say a word about the importance of our strategic relations with the united states. we need a stronger transatlantic partnership, capable of genuine shared leadership. our first opportunity to do so will be the launch of the ambitious millennium round in seattle, which is designed to further advance all wto members. let us be farsighted and smart and seize this opportunity, opening a new chapter in global trade relations. let me now turn to the second challenge that we face in the immediate future. this is the next intergovernmental conference (igc). we have always known that enlargement would raise profound questions about the way in which the institutions function. however, the recent crisis in the commission and the low turnout in the 1999 european elections have shown that a truly ambitious reform of the european institutions is now imperative. the amsterdam treaty - which has been positive in some respects - has not been up to the task of meeting the major institutional issues. a formula of proceeding in stages, through a series of intergovernmental conferences without deadlines, seems to me particularly unattractive. it would put europe in a state of perpetual constitutional reform which would be incomprehensible to our citizens and to our neighbours. it would also be a huge waste of much needed energy elsewhere, such as in the construction of new policies. we cannot therefore afford to settle for a minimalist reform which does not equip us for energetic and effective decision-making. as you know, i have asked mr dehaene, mr von weizsäcker and lord simon to draw up a report on which the commission will base its own position on the questions to be addressed by the igc. this report will be submitted to you and i hope that we will have a constructive debate in the period immediately preceding helsinki. we must express our views loud and clear because the coming months will be of crucial importance in determining whether we enter a new era strong and firmly armed or weak and withdrawn. however, europe is not just a matter of institutions; it is also a matter of citizens. for europe to prosper, europeans must have jobs and we must put europe back to work. to create jobs, you need a healthy economy. the third major challenge we face is how to ensure ecologically and economically sustainable growth that creates new jobs. after a difficult period, europe is now experiencing an economic recovery. growth is back, although it's not yet evenly distributed, but the signs of growth are good. the sometimes painful process of convergence towards economic and monetary union - coupled with the responsible attitude of the economic and social partners towards wage increases - has finally created the macroeconomic conditions for healthy growth. the introduction of the euro has consolidated this trend. the stability programmes of the member states will further develop this. that's great news. but it also places a very heavy responsibility on us. the economic recovery offers us a great opportunity to make structural adjustments at lower cost. modernizing the european economy today means more european jobs for tomorrow. we cannot afford to miss this opportunity, as we have too often done in the past. we must therefore take advantage of the more favourable prospects for the coming years to ensure that growth remains strong for as long as possible, creates the jobs we need and is accompanied by a renewed and genuine commitment to sustainable development. we must also tackle the long-term problems arising from the new demographic trends - which are one of the major problems facing europe and which we will have to consider together - and their impact on the fabric of our societies. in the final analysis, this means that both productivity per worker and the number of participants in the labour force must be increased. if we succeed in doing so, we will have a real opportunity to build a just and sustainable society. the single market has given new vitality to our economies and is contributing to the current recovery. however, we must continue to restructure this single market and promote liberalisation to further stimulate competition in the goods sector and, in particular, in the services sector. this will help us to maximise the job creation potential of growth and, in the longer term, support higher growth in our production capacity. this is not the time to go into the details of the structural reforms needed, which have already been described in many commission reports. we must now begin to implement them. i would like to mention one particular challenge among those we are facing, however, which is to be added to the proposals already made at other meetings we have held on health, sport and other issues. this challenge is about information technologies which are transforming the way we live and work and the way businesses operate. they enable individuals and businesses to achieve things that were unthinkable just a few years ago. the impressive performance of the us economy is largely explained by the enthusiasm with which the us has embraced information technology. i am concerned that european countries seem reluctant to exploit the full potential of these technologies. modern economies are increasingly knowledge-based and this is one area where we have a competitive advantage globally. encouraging the use and development of information technologies will therefore be a priority for the new commission. i propose that we launch an initiative in this area at the helsinki summit. it will be an ambitious initiative, which will have to appeal to all young people in europe. finally, we must take advantage of the economic recovery and stronger growth to adapt our social systems to current demographic trends. we can no longer ignore the problems or postpone decisions: the pensioners of the year 2050 are already among us! a highly developed social system is one of the distinguishing features of our european societies and we must preserve it. but we owe it to our children to adapt it so that it offers them credible promises as close as possible to those it has offered to our generation. the commission has recently proposed an ambitious strategy for closer european cooperation in this area and i will attach particular importance to this. in all these difficult tasks, the european union has a key role to play. firstly, because it is more effective to seek to solve long-term problems through concerted european strategies - such as the european employment process - than by acting at the purely national or local level, even if this is necessary. secondly, because action at european level often makes it easier to avoid the deadlocks that result from the more immediate pressures of national political calendars. so we have a little bit more of a backlog of these problems and we have to look at them in a broader context. we have the tools to do that. for example, following the luxembourg summit, strong progress has been made in developing a genuine european employment strategy in which the combination of guidelines, peer reviews and recommendations finally provides a powerful incentive for change. we must therefore continue this process, deepening cooperation at european level so that we can focus all our attention and all our action on the major structural reforms needed to revitalise our economy. that is possible today. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you are the democratically elected representatives of the citizens of europe. you represent the various european political families in all their diversity and complexity. i hope you will give your full support to the new commission in your vote tomorrow. i am sticking to the political commitments i made at the conference of presidents last week, which must now be incorporated into a new framework agreement governing our future work. let's move on. let us encourage a new spirit of cooperation between our institutions, a new balance, based not only on mutual respect but also on deep cooperation. a new partnership for the benefit of the european citizens. a new commission a new european parliament is needed. a fresh start. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, mr president-elect of the commission, the european union is at an important stage in its historical development. the establishment of a lasting peaceful order in south-east europe, the accession of central european states to the european union, dialogue and the mediterranean partnership of cultures between the european union and the arab and muslim states are just some of the challenges that require a strong europe. that is why we need an effective commission. during the july parliamentary session, romano prodi spoke of the commission as a kind of government. if we are to use this expression - and i am in favour of it - this government - that is to say the commission - is responsible to the european parliament. this means that the time when the european parliament could be ignored must finally be over. (applause) we are advocating a new culture in relations between the european parliament and the european commission. on 2 september i set out five requirements to the commission. the group of the european people's party and the european democrats is pleased that the president-designate of the commission gave a satisfactory answer to this question on 7 september in the conference of presidents and that he even referred to it. firstly, the timetable of parliament and its committees and therefore the presence of the commission in these places supplant all other obligations of the european commission. secondly, parliament's calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals will be followed up as widely as possible. thirdly, a vote of no confidence in a member of the commission should lead the president of the commission to seriously consider his resignation. fourthly, the reform of the commission will be the subject of a constructive dialogue with the european parliament and of regular consultation of the latter. fifthly, in view of the intergovernmental conference, parliament and the commission are calling for a thoroughgoing institutional reform. the group of the european people's party and the european democrats will be watching carefully to ensure that the commission strictly respects the commitments it has made. we know that romano prodi is a man of his word. we do, however, expect every future member of the european commission to feel himself bound by this commitment made by romano prodi, and if he did not, there would be consequences. if the commission were to be confirmed in its duties by tomorrow's vote, it would take over with a number of shortcomings. we cannot ignore this fact today. the president-designate has not always been given the latitude that the treaty gives him in appointing the members of the commission. there is still a structural democratic deficit in the political composition of the commission, which is due to the fact that the results of the european elections are not taken seriously. in the interests of democracy in the european union, this cannot happen again. (applause) however, our group does not put its own interests above those of the european union. but questions remain and serious doubts remain about certain appointed members of the commission, in particular the commissioner for research. we invite you, mr prodi, and also in the light of the discussion which is still taking place these days, to bring us a satisfactory answer, both in your summary and during tomorrow's sitting. we are not without a critical sense of ourselves, of the european parliament. overall, the hearings, which significantly contribute to greater transparency and openness, were a success. those who criticize them should reflect on the fact that nothing comparable exists at the national level. however, improvements are needed. parliament should now consider within its committee responsible whether it would be appropriate to include in its rules of procedure a procedure to be followed in order to avoid the difficulties and problems encountered during the next hearings. in recent months, the european union has given the impression of being riddled with bureaucratic failings, corruption, nepotism and scandals. on the whole, this impression is not justified. the vast majority of european civil servants do as good a job as they are qualified to do and they have a right to expect support and appreciation from the european parliamentarians. (applause) but we must nevertheless deal with malfunctions, even criminal acts, in a consistent and determined manner. the commission and the european parliament have a common duty to promote and strengthen confidence in the european institutions. madam president, mr president-designate of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats will take its decision this evening, also in the light of the answers we are still awaiting from the president-designate of the commission. our group will take this decision in full awareness of our responsibility in the establishment of an efficient europe, an efficient european union respectful of the principles of transparency, democracy and parliamentarism, a european union which can gather the consent of citizens; the european union is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. we must continue to build the european union and work to strengthen it so that citizens can accept it as a community of law, a community of freedom, a community of peace for the 21st century. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us, this parliament, to give europe, the european union, an effective commission again after tomorrow's meeting. tomorrow we will have to decide, in a global way, whether we express our confidence in this commission. in doing so, parliament is assuming the commission's responsibility - also for specific proposals - which does not make our judgment any easier. first of all, mr prodi, i would like to say that as president of the commission you can count on the broad support of the cdu/csu members of parliament. it is not surprising that our views differ on the matter of the college. some of them have had a brilliant audition, chris patten and mr. vitorino. however, your lot does contain a candidate involved in a bribery case in his country, which has led us to ask since yesterday whether the statements made to this house during the hearings were accurate. this candidate could become a burden for the commission. i take the liberty of warning you because the restoration of confidence that you have very rightly mentioned, mr prodi, naturally also requires that you have a commission that can work without being handicapped by such reproaches: this is precisely what your commission must be different from that which preceded it. we have spoken of the political balance of this commission: this is not a requirement of the treaty but a matter of political intelligence and taking account of this parliament. our warning remains on this subject, but we do not want to go into it any further at the moment. that is why, mr prodi, we have high hopes for your approval of you and your role as president of the commission. you are the first commission president to whom the treaty offers the possibility of obtaining the approval not only of the commission as a whole but also of each candidate. we can only encourage you to play this role to the full. in the future, no government of a member state should be able to make fun of the opinion of the president of the commission. in this case we are demanding an explicit separation of budget and budgetary control. we will judge the commission on your ability to take the spirit of subsidiarity into account more in your legislative action than has been the case in the past. the commission you are heading must be open to a new culture of subsidiarity.
(de) mr president, mr president-elect of the commission, i have good news and bad news for you. the good one first. personally and as president, you also have the confidence of the members of the european parliament, who are otherwise very sceptical of your team. that means that for both votes you can count on the 'yes' of our group. now for the bad news. during the hearings it turned out that, in addition to brilliant, exceptional commissioners, you had to present us with average, passable commissioners, or even one or the other commissioner who unfortunately lacked the necessary qualifications. we are of course particularly reserved about mr busquin. when scandals follow someone like this, experience tells us that they will catch up with him sooner or later. while we understand that you have little room for manoeuvre, such a heavy rebuke calls for a change in your team. and since mr barón crespo said this morning that a recalcitrant bavarian minister would not have resigned, may i give him the most recent information: he resigned yesterday, before the vote in parliament, but i fear that it will be another century before the european commission achieves the efficiency of the bavarian administration. (laughter) mr president of the commission, with all due respect to you and to a number of members of your team, if you fail to bring about change, particularly in the case of mr busquin, a number of my colleagues will be forced to lose their confidence in this commission. the time has come to have the courage and the energy to seize the opportunity to usher in a new era in europe.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the future commission, we also discuss our political priorities. and what are they, mr prodi? these are among the most essential areas for citizens, which are of daily importance to them and their children. these include clean air and clean water, safe food that does not poison people, protection of their special economic interests, and the development of a basic health standard within the european union. during their hearings before the relevant committees, margot wallström and david byrne made a convincing and brilliant statement that they recognised these priorities and that they would be fully committed to this policy and its implementation; they've met the orders. but how can such areas be political priorities and realities? this can only be done with the support of the commission as a whole and its president; i am very pleased to see you, mr prodi. can we be optimistic about that? this is the question i have been asking myself for the last few days and i have been asking myself this question, mr prodi, in each of your speeches. so far, there have been four or five speeches. i'll give you the answer: i'm not optimistic. i have the impression that you have previously made a confession out of the tip of your lips. it was too much for you. that's why you haven't even bothered to do it today. in your speech earlier you did not say a word - not a word! - about environmental policy. you mentioned the term 'sustainable development' once. it's an imposed exercise that everyone sacrifices for. you have said nothing, not a word, about consumer protection and food safety. and that's after bse and dioxin! as for the word 'health', you used it in connection with the healthy economy and when talking about health and sport. mr prodi, this is a certificate of poverty that you have issued to yourself, not to your commission. there is no doubt that mrs wallström and mr byrne have passed their examination before the european parliament with flying colours. but you will probably often feel very alone at the commission's table because you have no idea what the interests of the citizens of the european union are, mr prodi, although you always talk about the european soul. you said you learned your lesson. what lessons have you learned, mr prodi, besides the importance of economics? in the past you have shown that you do not mean what you say and that is why you do not say anything now. i'll tell you very clearly, mr. prodi, you failed the exam. so far, you've clearly gone through. and if i am going to vote for the commission tomorrow, it is because of the quality of your colleagues, not because of you, mr prodi. if i could differentiate, you would have a clear "no" and everyone else a clear "yes". in football, a good team with a bad coach would never make it to the top of the league. i hope the future commission will make this rule a lie.
- (de) madam president, on page 6 of the minutes, we read: 'mr posselt gives details of the content of his speech at the beginning of the sitting.' i would like to say the following about this: firstly, i did not make any statement at the beginning of the sitting and secondly, the clarification i made yesterday does not seem to have borne fruit because the minutes do not take up what i actually said and the following point contradicts what i said. i would therefore like to emphasize again that during the last part-session i indicated that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the assembly decides on the composition of the offices of the interparliamentary delegations but that it is for the joint parliamentary committees to elect their offices, as parliamentary committees do. and this must also be the case with the joint parliamentary committees in third countries. i have mentioned this many times in this house, but there has never been any reaction, even though it is clearly stated in our rules of procedure. i again raised this problem yesterday when the minutes of friday's last part-session were approved. and now the minutes mention that i would have made some clarifications without the substance of my remarks being really reported and, on the other hand, who is part of the offices of these joint parliamentary committees. however, this is not correct: these are proposals on which the joint parliamentary committees will have to decide when they are set up.
- (de) mr president, mr prodi, in your speech of 21 july 1999 you said that for you the key words would be transparency, a sense of responsibility and efficiency. these three basic principles must be observed in particular in the field of budgetary policy. if we are to regain the trust of citizens, we need transparency in the detailed implementation of the eu budget, accountability in the use of taxpayers' money and budgetary efficiency in the implementation of community policies. it is clear that this is an obligation for the whole commission, for all commissioners and for all departments. with mrs schreyer you have proposed an experienced politician who will certainly have to endure a number of things at european level because she will first have to make her mark in one or another area, but who has nevertheless quickly and widely made her way in this very complex matter of budgetary policy and who is well aware of the budgetary challenges ahead. it argued that budgetary discipline would be one of its highest principles. that is commendable. but we will ensure that it is not just a matter of describing new tasks and putting them into our budget. we will have to speak to the council together and tell it that new tasks require fresh money. i have already found that mrs schreyer was not as diplomatic as usual when she said that the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure should be abolished. this implies that parliament would be on an equal footing in all areas. such a bold statement deserves to be mentioned once again. she also said that in this area it would be good to have revenue responsibility and we will have to start discussing this very soon. i think mrs schreyer is one of the candidates proposed who will do their job in this parliament to the full. on this point at least, we shall have no reason to doubt his team.
(de) mr president, mr president of the commission, in your speech this morning you said that the commission should be much more open. in this connection, you have even mentioned the need for glasnost. in doing so, you have reached the heart of the matter. the conflict which broke out last year between the commission and parliament was largely due to the cult of secrecy which reigned within the commission and the arrogance shown by the commission in the face of the legitimate concerns of this parliament. i hope that this is all a thing of the past and, like you, mr president of the commission, i hope for a new beginning. i now turn to the hearings in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. a general remark to begin with: if the quality criteria applied to commissioners were at the level of those shown by mr ingo friedrich in today's hearings and debate, we would have no difficulty with any candidate. but the commissioners-designate günther verheugen and chris patten do not need it. both of them have engaged in an excellent debate in the committee and have really given a sample not only of their qualifications but also - and this is almost more important - of the new political culture that you mentioned, commissioner, and of the dialogue between the european parliament and the commission. we have of course seen differences in political views. it would be incomprehensible if it were otherwise, and this is precisely what makes collaboration interesting and saves us from boredom. it was not without reason that all the coordinators agreed that our committee had inherited two valuable and appreciated interlocutors. mr president of the commission, the committee on development and cooperation has reached the same consensus on commissioner nielson. i say this because our committee was also involved. i would like to assure you and your colleagues of our critical cooperation and willingness to dialogue and i have no problem in repeating what my group chairman has already said to you, namely that we will express our confidence in you.
- (de) mr president, with tomorrow's vote on the prodi commission, the european parliament is putting an end to the scandals of the santer commission. i hope that in this way we will also largely overcome the mistrust of citizens and restore confidence in the european union. but putting an end to the conflict does not mean that it is over. the european parliament's vigilance is not recorded in the archives. in the future, we will continue to keep an eye on the commission. the people of europe have elected us for this purpose. we will ensure that, where appropriate, certain members of the commission are removed if they are no longer defendable for professional or personal reasons. if we had the opportunity to comment on the individuals who make up the commission, i am convinced that mr bolkestein, for example, would not pass the test. a man responsible for the internal market who has heard only the word 'subsidiarity' in his mouth throughout the hearing has not fully understood the great common tasks of europe. the peoples of europe expect their leaders to look to the common good and not to the sum of the particular interests within the member states. if mr bolkestein learns to understand this, he will eventually be able to share in the success i wish for mr prodi and his commission. if he does not learn it, he is eligible for re-entry to his studies. mr prodi, since mr bolkestein is not yet back, i am counting on you to convey my words to him.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the statement by mr prodi.
(de) mr president, mr prodi, we social democrats are disappointed. despite all the declarations, you have not succeeded in achieving a better balance between men and women in the new team. the eu commission remains a male circle. the mandate of the amsterdam treaty to combat all forms of discrimination remains a wish-fulfilled one, at least for women. if we speak the same european language, you have not understood us. one third of your candidates did not answer the question put by the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities on gender mainstreaming. i would stress once again that the social democrats had demanded - and they continue to demand - that we should have a commissioner with equal opportunities competence in the future. we demand that the college and you, as its head, show respect for gender mainstreaming, respect that leads to meaningful developments and improvements. it is true that mrs diamantopoulou - whose portfolio also includes equal opportunities, in addition to employment and the social dimension - has shown great commitment, but how can she act, mr prodi, when you have gagged her from the start and have placed the fight against violence and discrimination in other hands than hers? you talk about a new balance, a new partnership, but you leave no room for the women of europe, who represent half the citizens. we want you to ensure that we achieve substantial improvements in income, access to responsibilities and money and to fight with us against the daily discrimination and violence against women. without the work of women, the idea of the european family is unthinkable.
mr. cashman, would you like to move for a procedural motion?
- mr. cashman, this is not a procedural motion. please observe the rules.
- (de) mr president, mr prodi, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the nineteen hearings of the future commissioners, we have heard the wonderful concepts of transparency, efficiency, accountability and accountability. reform should touch the head and the limbs and not be a disjointed work; that is the credible guarantee you have given us, mr prodi. however, this is a difficult task for mr kinnock because words cannot be trusted. the acts must be adopted swiftly, in full openness to parliament. we believe that constructive cooperation with the commission is the prerequisite for any lasting improvement in the present deplorable image of europe among the citizens. i would like to make three specific points concerning budgetary control. first, the usual practice is to separate the powers and control of expenditure. however, mr prodi, you have grouped these two areas into one department. what is your opinion on the possible separation of these two areas, now or in the future? aren't you afraid of a conflict of interest? secondly, i was pleased with what you said about informing public opinion. i hope you will show the same openness to our committee, particularly as regards discharge, an area in which we have the right to demand information of a very special quality from the commission. first of all, we do not want to have to learn from the press in the future about problems, mismanagement or more. thirdly, olaf, the new agency for combating fraud. the numbers requested for this year are quite insufficient. unfortunately, mrs schreyer did not express herself clearly in favour of fifteen additional posts for this year - and thus a total of thirty posts. from the answers given at yesterday's meeting of the committee on budgetary control, we could not perceive any change in the commission's closed attitude towards its administration. there is still a lot to be done in the various departments. this also applies to the 30 cases still to be clarified in the uclaf-olaf list, not to mention the other 900 cases. i am sure that the words transparency, efficiency, accountability and accountability will not remain empty words.
- i have received seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the conference of presidents also sent me a draft decision on the election of the commission designated. see minutes of the sitting. the vote on these motions for resolutions and on the draft conference of presidents will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
- (de) mr president-elect of the commission, the new commission has some very important tasks ahead of it. we now have a common monetary policy, which is organised by the european central bank. but we are still waiting for a common economic policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are properly applied. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income. i am convinced that this common economic policy will only be successful if it is organised according to the principles of the social market economy. in this respect we need - and you have mentioned this in particular, mr president of the commission - some projects which are visible to the citizens. firstly, i know that this point has been criticised. however, food safety is a fundamental concern of citizens and also one of the obstacles to the proper functioning of the common market. i would like to encourage you personally, mr president of the commission, to take up this subject because it seems to me to be absolutely essential, on the one hand for the citizens and on the other hand also for the functioning of the common market. secondly, the surveillance of airspace: america has an authority in this area, as you also pointed out in your introductory speech. in europe we have three authorities in charge of this matter. it is untenable for the airlines and dangerous for the citizens. this seems to me to be a second important priority. the third theme is the further dismantling of monopolies. with the fall in the cost of telephony, with the fall in the cost of electricity, it is noted for the first time that the dismantling of monopolies also brings immediate benefits to citizens. i think we should try to continue along this path in the fields of postal services, energy, telecommunications and railways, where comparable conditions exist. in my view, the dismantling of monopolies is a policy which is favourable to the citizens of the european union.
(de) mr president, mr commissioner-designate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, mr donnelly has just said that we have been making hypocritical and false attacks against commissioner-designates. i can only say that those of you who heard brian simpson this morning will hardly have recognized him. it was supposed to be the socialist line. brian simpson has attacked mrs palacio in an incomprehensible and shameful way and on behalf of my group i strongly reject the attacks which mrs palacio has suffered. the facts are quite different. the committee has recognized ms. palacio's competence by a large majority. the committee confirmed that the priorities set out by ms palacio in her oral and written replies reflected the parliament's view. the majority of the committee was also satisfied with ms palacio's answers to the socialists' allegations in the context of the spanish inquiry into state aid for land. ms palacio explained convincingly that the spanish parliamentary inquiry committee had rejected the charges against her as unfounded. we firmly reject the attacks of the socialists who keep coming back to this old issue and regularly make assumptions. we look forward to working with ms. palacio. (interruptions) mr president, you can speak when you have time, but you will not take mine. collaboration with ms palacio will work just as well as it will work with the commissioner-designate for regional policy, mr barnier. because of his political experience as a national minister and also as president of a regional council, mr barnier is best placed to understand, apply and implement regional policy. he said something that i found very convincing when he said that he would respect the principle of subsidiarity, that the decision was first of all for the member states and the regions, but that as commissioner he would have the responsibility to ensure that the objectives of regional policy were respected and that he would be keen to take up his responsibility. we are therefore looking forward to working with you, mr barnier.
mr president, i would like to focus briefly on three points, but first of all, mr prodi, i would like to say that mr fischler was very well prepared for the agricultural sector and that we were convinced by his skills in this area. during its hearing by the committee on agriculture and rural development, the issue of parliament's codecision in the common agricultural policy was probably one of the most important. in this respect, my group particularly welcomes the fact that mr fischler has stated that, in principle, legislative acts relating to the general orientation of the common agricultural policy should be dealt with under the codecision procedure and that he will actively advocate this cause at the next intergovernmental conference. i assume, mr prodi, that he has your support on these matters. secondly, the hearing also largely covered not only the outstanding issues on the enlargement file but also the presentation and defence at international level of the european agricultural model in the context of the forthcoming wto negotiations. here again, i can say on behalf of my group that the commission is clearly determined to include, among other things, the issues of european agro-social standards and environmental provisions in the millennium cycle. mr. garot has already mentioned it. thirdly, if the commissioner-designate for agriculture succeeds in this parliament in accepting more of the amendments tabled by parliament and the members, provided that - and i must be honest - they do not exceed budgetary limits and do not contravene existing legislation, the majority of my group is of the opinion that the candidate's experience, competence and commitment will ensure that he will do a good job as a member of the commission.
- (de) madam president, mr president-elect of the commission, i am one of those who will vote against tomorrow if nothing decisive has happened by then. and make no mistake: the discussion tonight in the epp group will be very interesting. if there are no significant changes, i shall vote against for the following reasons. first of all, mr prodi, your commission suffers from a democratic deficit. your team does not reflect the outcome of the european elections. in view of the results obtained by the greens in the european elections, i think it is only right that you have accepted a green commissioner. but people will not understand that ten socialists have to sit in this commission and they will wonder what influence their vote really has on the composition of the european commission. so ask your predecessor, mr santer: in this respect, who has been successful in this or that respect with governments? secondly, the answers given by the commissioners-designate at the hearings on the van buitenen case. european citizens will not understand that a new path is not being taken and that those who are concerned about transparency are not receiving more support within the commission. but for me, as for many others, the major problem is mrs cresson's proposed successor. it goes without saying that i do not want to pronounce any legal condemnation of mr. busquin; i don't want to substitute myself for the belgian justice system and none of us wants to put him in jail. the question is how to restore confidence in the european institutions. do you really think we can win the confidence of the citizens by always receiving the same answer: 'i have not been personally implicated'? mr. busquin is involved in the inusop case and was not charged because there was a statute of limitations. the parallel with the case of bodo hombach, eu coordinator for the balkans, is striking. and as regards the agusta-dassault case, it is now quite clear that mr busquin was aware of the existence of a black box. if this subject is not dealt with better than it has been so far, i wonder who can guarantee that in the future we will not have black boxes in the commission, either in dg xii or elsewhere. in short, mr prodi, you can still convince me by taking strong action, but we must send a strong signal to parliament and to public opinion. otherwise, i will vote 'no' tomorrow, like many others, and this 'no' is not a 'no' to europe but a vote in favour of a clean, democratic and transparent europe.
- the agenda calls for the presentation by the council of the draft general budget - budget 2000. i call mrs siimes, president-in-office of the council.
- mr. president, i think it's easy to answer your question. the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2000 does not start today; we have already discussed this in this parliament. the council has now taken up the matter and we shall now discuss the outcome of the council's discussions. the situation is simple: we still have a functioning commission, of which mr liikanen is a member. he is responsible for the budgetary area. the new commission will only take office if parliament gives its approval and after the commissioners are sworn in at noon on thursday in luxembourg before the european court of justice. mrs. schreyer will be held responsible. until then, the responsibility lies with mr liikanen and that is why he is speaking.
- thank you very much, madam minister. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 5.53 p.m.)
- (de) madam president, after having had to make some criticisms, i should like to take this opportunity to express my thanks and congratulate the plenary on the work of the proceedings. the explanations i have given are remarkably accurately reproduced in today's minutes. in a way that's almost more correct than the way i provided them.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few remarks to mr de gaulle. however, he left the room after his speech, which, however, helped to increase the quality of the debate considerably. the finnish presidency has presented its proposals to us and i would like to draw your attention, madam president-in-office of the council, to a point which i consider to be essential in the debate on the establishment of an area of security, freedom and justice. the explanations you have given us, and the points raised by the members - concerning the cooperation between the european parliament, the national parliaments and the council and the commission - are almost all in the legal sphere and carry the danger that the citizens of europe will feel increasingly alien to legislation. what is this creation of an area of security, freedom and justice? on the one hand, we are talking about freedom and fundamental rights, that is to say, direct individual rights, and on the other hand, we are talking about the protection of security and these individual rights by state bodies, above state bodies, as they should develop in europe. these are two aspects which can directly affect citizens and every individual in europe. every citizen is directly affected by all these issues, whether it be the right of asylum, immigration, europol, the charter of fundamental rights, whatever else. all citizens are directly affected by these issues. how will this legislation be implemented? all the council's fine words do not change the fact that for 90% of the legal documents promulgated, the council itself acts. and how does it work? the 15 executives go to brussels, act like a legislative body, then return to their respective capitals, once again applying the laws enacted by the council itself. this means that, by their current mode of operation, the executive is increasingly excluding national parliaments - this is evident in the case of europol and in the establishment of the europol convention - and is not transferring the legislative function to the european parliament. in this context of parliamentary inadequacy, it is not possible to develop in a democratic way an area of security, freedom and justice which represents the development of a structure which takes into account the requirements of protection of the individual and which includes the possibility of interfering in the private sphere. the european parliament must therefore appeal to the council and the commission. it is precisely in the areas in which you have already decided - in a way that i think is too cowardly - to give the european parliament the same legislative rights that you must ensure that we in tampere have the same legislative rights by the next intergovernmental conference if you want to build a democratic area of security, freedom and justice. otherwise you risk seeing citizens moving further away from the european union.
- (de) madam president, the tampere summit on internal policy is a historic milestone in the development of the european union. until a few years ago, member state governments were not willing to cooperate with the european parliament on important issues such as police cooperation, immigration or asylum policy. after amsterdam, the time has come for the european union to lay the foundations. the degree of democracy and fairness of the union will depend on what happens in tampere, whether it is really a question of establishing an area of security, freedom and justice for citizens. i have not yet seen any documents from the finnish presidency. the ministers for the interior and justice also remained too vague in the committee on civil liberties and citizens' rights, justice and home affairs. what about the legendary nordic transparency? that is why i refer to the german documents concerning the tampere summit. i regret that we have had to hold another debate on internal policy in this parliament without the documents from the council presidency. in this connection, i should like to make it clear that my group is very concerned that the tampere summit is about police cooperation, the fight against drugs, data protection, democratic control of europol and the schengen information system. we are afraid that once again these crucial points, which are of considerable importance for democracy in europe, will not be given due consideration and that in the end the real losers will once again be the citizens. i still have hope, but experience has taught me to be pessimistic. i hope that the finnish presidency will take our thoughts seriously.
- (de) madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, we have indeed entered a decisive phase in the development of the european union with regard to these questions of european legal policy and with regard to the reflections on the charter of fundamental rights. we are all aware that this is a matter of national sovereignty. we must therefore understand that in many member states this is a very sensitive issue. however, we must also note that the european union has evolved in the meantime with the emergence of a european legal order and the acquisition of competences by the european institutions. this should not lead to any contradiction arising from a conflict of competences between the institutions and levels of power. this means that if, after careful consideration, powers are transferred to a specific level, this transfer must be accompanied by legal constraints and powers of cooperation and decision-making rights of an equivalent level, otherwise a space would emerge over which the law and parliament would no longer have a say. in this essential area of law, which concerns not only the protection of the citizen vis-à-vis the outside world but also vis-à-vis the institutions of the state, there can be no question of protection against bad executive measures not being provided and of the controls relating thereto not being carried out in the interest of the citizen. it is therefore of the utmost importance that these shortcomings be addressed. in this regard, it is not simply a matter of things that should happen in the future. i would like to expressly invite the council, in the light of the current developments in the flow of refugees and the right of asylum, to introduce majority voting on these questions relating to the five-year time limit, by a simple council decision, which will have the immediate consequence, also provided for in this area, that the european parliament will have the right of codecision. (applause) i would also like to raise the question of fundamental rights. i think that the decision taken in cologne, namely the drawing up of a charter of fundamental rights, is of considerable importance. however, it will have only limited legal effect. in the long run, we must ensure that citizens can also demand that their fundamental rights be exercised at european level when european administrative and legislative procedures run counter to their interests. but the decisive point in the proposals put forward at the cologne summit is the method, namely that such things would no longer be prepared within national governments alone but within the framework of a kind of convention in which the national parliaments, the european parliament and the governments would be represented. madam president, there is a great chance of finding the right balance in terms of the european parliament's participation in this convention, by obtaining equal representation vis-à-vis the other two institutions. the experience gained could perhaps be used to lay the foundations for the process of european unification in the interests of the citizens. it is not just the charter of fundamental rights, which can give the european parliament the legitimacy to set these milestones, but also to train for new procedures for bringing together national parliaments, national governments and the european parliament. i ask you not to act timidly based on either interest but to seize this great opportunity. the charter is the main issue. that is why you should act courageously at the tampere summit and give the european parliament the numerical importance it needs to give it the necessary legitimacy.
- (de) madam president, here in strasbourg we are following in the special tradition of robert schuman, whose coal and steel community was not only a step towards economic integration, crowned by the arrival of the euro, but also a step towards political integration. the council could use the opportunity afforded by the tampere summit to create a community of freedom and security within the european union, on the model of the coal and steel community. i am afraid, however, that this will not happen, and my scepticism is based on several points. first, the charter of fundamental rights. madam president, i believe that it is indeed necessary for the european parliament, the council and the commission, all of whom are equal before the law, to debate how this charter of fundamental rights should be established. the european parliament must play the leading role in this respect. i think it is unacceptable that we should be used as a sort of decoration for national parliaments. we have strongly criticised the composition of the body provided for in the committee on home affairs and here the council presidency has told us that we cannot deviate from the mandate. this is outrageous! the council gives itself a mandate and then declares that it cannot deviate from it! this is absolutism! that is why i think we should use today's meeting to bring this process back into the parliamentary fold. european citizens are represented by the european parliament. if the national parliaments cooperate, so much the better. i would urge you, however, in addressing the council, to seek dialogue with the european parliament on this matter, both in terms of content and procedure. secondly, the burden sharing with regard to war refugees and asylum seekers will also be discussed in tampere. i think it is scandalous that we have not yet decided to set specific quotas. the kosovo crisis has shown that burden sharing on a voluntary basis does not work. it was claimed that it had been proven that in kosovo, it worked. fortunately, the intervention of nato and the return of albanian-speaking refugees eager to rebuild kosovo quickly stopped the flow of refugees. we must realize, however, that if a new crisis were to break out, we would be heading for disaster if we used the same instruments as we used during the kosovo crisis. that is why we need a precise distribution of the burden, based on quotas. european solidarity needs precise and clear rules which must be established before a crisis breaks out and not in an emergency when it has already occurred. that is why i urge you to seize the opportunity to make a real new start at the tampere summit, which really offers political integration for europe, starting with internal security and cooperation in the field of justice, because what is at stake here are the fundamental elements of the state and therefore of the community.
- (de) madam president, the finnish presidency has a huge responsibility. many hope that real progress towards a people's europe will be made at the tampere summit. i believe that the charter of citizens' rights is a unique opportunity to tell people from scandinavia to the mediterranean that this europe is not just a market or a currency. this europe is a community of values, which is focused on defending and promoting the achievements of civilization for which we have fought over the centuries. the charter of citizens' rights is only of interest if the method of drawing it up is open and transparent. it cannot therefore be a traditional governmental conference behind closed doors. this charter must be drawn up in open dialogue with citizens. i think that citizens' rights are a subject which should be dealt with first by parliaments, whether the european parliament or the national parliaments. in this respect, the tampere summit should go further and give the european parliament greater scope for collaboration than what was decided in cologne. it is a question of european citizens' rights. we must ensure that there is parity between representatives in the european parliament and representatives at national level. i think the public will only be interested in this charter if it is more than a solemn proclamation. citizens' rights must be legally binding! i hope that these debates will be directed towards research into how these rights could be enshrined in future treaties. open dialogue and legal anchoring: we will then have the opportunity to re-establish contact with the citizens of europe.
- (de) madam president, mr president-elect of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats yesterday had a passionate debate on the decisions we are going to take today. jacques santer, the former president of the european commission, took part in these debates and made a remarkable and impressive contribution. i would like to begin this short speech by expressing our thanks, our respect and our appreciation to our colleague and friend jacques santer for his admirable contribution as prime minister of luxembourg and president of the european commission. (applause) i would like to thank in the course of these discussions in our group, questions were asked and doubts expressed, and these questions and doubts remain. we cannot deny this, and that is why we respect the attitude of members who will take a different decision from that of the vast majority of our group. the overwhelming majority of our group will support the romano prodi commission. but this is neither a blank check nor a blank card! we will take your word for it, mr. prodi. this means that we will carefully check that you will, after your inauguration, fulfil the obligations you assumed before your inauguration before the european parliament. we hope that you will discuss your programme up to 2005 with parliament and that it will be politically balanced. you have committed yourselves to it and above all to the five points. i would like to thank very sincerely mr hänsch and mr costa, mrs hautala and mr collins and mr bonde for allowing us to adopt a resolution by a large majority after a two-hour debate yesterday under the chairmanship of our group. it is our duty as the european parliament to speak with one voice on the fundamental questions concerning the future of europe. the support for this resolution would have been even greater if one of the groups had had the interpretation into a specific language. that is why this group did not adopt this resolution. you see, parliament's problems are similar to those of the commission, but this also gives the european union a human face. let me make one last remark. we have taken a big step in the last few weeks towards cooperation. it is now our duty to continue along the path of parliamentarisation and democratisation and, above all, it is our duty not to disappoint the hopes of the countries of central europe to join our community of justice, peace and freedom. in this spirit, we say yes to the commission appointed. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of reasons for refusing to invest the commission. first of all, i would like to point out once again the political imbalance in the commission. this does not reflect the majority in parliament following the christian democrats' resounding electoral victory. this is unacceptable. in addition, two commissioners, namely the belgian mr busquin and the frenchman mr lamy, are involved in scandals, as can be shown. we want a new start, but i can see that with these two gentlemen there is no question of a new start and the citizens of europe have the right to demand that we, as members of parliament, ensure that the commission really only welcomes persons of impeccable character. in this case, it is not. it is again a question - i say this clearly - of eliminating these people from national politics. parliament did not act in january to approve the appointment of people who were less than average than those we sent home in january.
(de) mr president, i would have voted today unequivocally in favour of the commission. unfortunately, i had to add a "but" next to my abstention. i think that the commissioner has a very good point to make, and i think that he has a very good point to make. i think it is not enough to make declarations of intent, but it is necessary to explain where the reforms of the european union are leading. i found these statements too lyrical and too imprecise; i therefore wanted to express my abstention by saying that this is not enough and that in the years to come the commission must make its promises as concrete as possible and not be limited to lyrical speeches. let us hope that mr prodi succeeds in becoming a leading figure in the european union. i did not really vote against the commission but i would have preferred to have voted in favour with conviction. unfortunately, mr prodi's statements were, in my view, too disappointing.
in writing. - (de) i have just voted against the composition of the present commission and abstained on romano prodi. the reason: in may of this year, the president of the commission won a convincing vote from the european parliament to implement, with the help of a new team, a comprehensive reform programme to clean up the commission. however, the commission is already scratched. mr. prodi has not commented on the results of the hearings. given the serious doubts about the competence of the belgian philippe busquin in the field of research and the many complaints about the cases in which he is involved, mr prodi should have refused this candidate! in addition, he accepted without thinking about it the french government's proposal to appoint pascal lamy as the foreign trade secretary, although he was the architect of the delors system and therefore responsible for the emergence of an opaque financial structure within the commission. this system is the real cause of the serious organizational deficiencies which led to the resignation of the santer commission. there is no question of the so-called 'appropriate balance representing political plurality' that was loudly announced. the commission is predominantly left-wing. romano prodi did not resist the present german chancellor when he proposed a green and a social democrat commissioner. mr schröder's lack of vision and his purely power-oriented policy have been exposed; since then, the germans have been giving it corse answers, country after country. unlike his predecessor, helmut kohl, who five years ago accepted the opposition's proposal for the commission - it was not easy for me to approve the appointment of monika wulf-mathies in 1994 - schröder was not prepared to take account of the current opposition, the cdu/csu, which won the elections in germany. elmar brok would have been a brighter choice and likely to win a majority. michaele schreyer is included in the budget, an area which she can only manage and not develop; the commission has not been able to dispel doubts about its ability to control the budget. günter verheugen is referring back to enlargement, where decisive steps have long been taken. he will not even be responsible for a general management and will therefore only be a junior commissioner. i cannot accept the appointment of second-class commissioners - a consequence of the obstinacy of schröder - representing the largest eu member state. i refuse to approve this commission. this vote is not about mario monti (competition) from italy, viviane reding (culture and education) from luxembourg or chris patten (external relations) from the uk, who - as i have seen for myself - have left an excellent impression of competence and ability to communicate. despite the doubts i have just expressed, i did not vote against romano prodi but i abstained. i admit that he has accepted the five demands put forward by the epp group, namely, inter alia, the right of legislative initiative for the european parliament, the attitude of the commissioners in the event of a vote of no confidence and the constant and necessary dialogue on the reform of the commission. i hope that mr prodi will become a person who is willing and able to initiate reforms and help to restore the confidence of the citizens of europe in accessible and effective institutions.
in writing. - (de) like the whole csu group in the european parliament, i voted twice against the commission, since it is composed unilaterally and in no way reflects the will of the electorate clearly expressed on 13 june. in addition, some commissioners are suspected, particularly mr busquin, whose replacement should have been a central concern for mr prodi. as regards the second vote on mr prodi, i abstained because i wanted to have full confidence in him for the remainder of his term, because i did not want to vote on the next five years until january and because i consider the procedure chosen today to be highly suspicious. i wish president prodi good luck and success, i wish the vice-president responsible for relations with parliament, mrs palacio, who i am sure has all the necessary qualities, and i wish all the commissioners whose responsibilities fall within my sphere of work - mr patten, mr verheugen and above all our long-standing colleagues mr reding and mr vitorino - and i would like to offer them my constructive collaboration.
(de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few comments of principle on this adventure of the supplementary and amending budget. it is of course sensible and necessary to react urgently in the event of budgetary constraints, especially when we are faced with situations such as those in kosovo or turkey. yet we cannot help feeling that we are witnessing a waltz of hesitation here. parliament has always been quick to suspect, on the basis of past experience, that changes to unspent budget lines are in fact deliberate because certain budgetary priorities of the european parliament were not appreciated at all and the other institutions did not intend to implement them at all costs. the fourth supplementary and amending budget is not the most important, although it is impossible for me to say at the moment whether we will end this year with a fifth supplementary budget or whether we will have a seventh in december, because the commission itself has put forward very different estimates in its working document as regards the justification for the necessary appropriations. it is not possible to estimate the payments that would still have to be made under the phare programme. the rapporteur has already mentioned the sum of 650 million. in this regard, we should all feel uncomfortable. i think, commissioner, that it would be absolutely necessary, in order to finally achieve an orderly and reasonable procedure, for the commission to carry out clearing-up work by december and the second reading, so that next year we do not find ourselves in the same situation as we have had this year, especially as the commission itself states that it is absolutely not in a position to estimate how payments will be made for the year 2000. i would also like to ask the commissioner, and this is a request from the committee on budgetary control, if the commission would be prepared to introduce on its own initiative the 15 additional items requested by the committee on budgetary control during the vote, when the fifth supplementary and amending budget is presented. this is one of the key points for us to consider when we make our decision in october. i would like to return to the debate tomorrow, mr president. tomorrow we will debate and vote on the proposal for the kosovo reconstruction agency. i would like to make it very clear that we were able, with the fourth supplementary and amending budget, to allocate the appropriations in a spontaneous and rapid manner. however, it is in the commission's own interest that the proposals on financial responsibility and those relating to the agency be rapidly revised in the direction envisaged by parliament - as the allocation of appropriations will not be sufficient - so that the undertaking is completed in an efficient, transparent and accountable manner. we shall come back to this in the morning.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, looking back is one thing, and it is certainly justified, but looking quickly ahead is another. but we must not deceive ourselves. even though un troops may be able to intervene by the end of the week, we cannot achieve peace so quickly without the cooperation of the indonesian military and the authorities. the gangs of looters that are rampant throughout east timor and the army that is still there will not be deterred by the estimated six or eight thousand un troops. the east timorese refugees in west timor must be allowed to return to their homes. they must be protected where they currently reside in west timor. that is why we must send a clear signal to the indonesian authorities. i'm no longer sure that the government is still taking responsibility and holding the reins, unlike the military, perhaps. we must say to all those responsible: if a change of policy is not made quickly, we must - i am speaking of the council and the commission - make serious threats with all the means at our disposal in the economic field and get those responsible to cooperate. otherwise we would see the deployment of un troops but we would not be able to prevent people from being killed and displaced. that is why we must send a clear signal today. indonesia can still seize the opportunity to have good relations with us in the coming years. however, if its policy were to remain unchanged, indonesia would not be able to find partners in europe as long as those responsible for the current situation are in charge, whether in the military, parliament or government. we therefore also call on the council to send clear signals to the indonesian authorities in the coming days, together with the member states. they must cooperate or the un protection forces will be powerless. europe, the council, the commission and parliament must take a strong stand.
counsel. -{}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}} these requests, which are based on political, economic and social considerations, are currently being examined by the council bodies with a view to forming a common negotiating position of the european union. the european union will, however, only adopt its definitive position once it has obtained additional information and studies from the countries concerned on the scale and impact of these requests. it should be remembered, however, that the association treaties contain commitments under which community undertakings established in the candidate countries have the right to acquire real estate, including agricultural land. the european union also insisted in its general negotiating position at the start of the accession negotiations on 31 march 1998 that requests for transitional periods must not involve changes to or impede the proper functioning of community rules or policies. it should be noted in this connection that the transitional period concerning the acquisition of land is set out in the chapter on the free movement of capital. this principle is, as we know, of paramount importance for the proper functioning of the single market. this generally means that the free movement of all types of capital should already be guaranteed at the time of accession.
- (de) mr president, i would like to ask a supplementary question: i thank you for your clear answer and i agree with you when you say that a candidate country must of course fully adopt the community acquis. however, there are still rumours of possible contracts being concluded: transitional periods, with regard to the free labour market and other similar provisions within the eu could be associated with transitional periods within the candidate countries. i consider this perspective to be highly problematic because it is not a merger of two systems but an accession process. i believe that there can be transitional periods in terms of accession, as was the case in the past, but the applicant countries must fully adopt the acquis communautaire at the time of accession. if that were not the case, we would have a membership of the card, which could put the community at considerable risk.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a reconstruction agency for south-eastern europe, the first operational agency of which will be opened in kosovo, in pristina. unlike other institutions in europe, we have learned from bosnia and herzegovina. we want this agency to be effective from the start. its operation must not be hampered from the outset by decisions taken at a great distance from the agency. we learned that in bosnia and we learned from that. mr schwaiger, the last rapporteur on the obnova programme, said that at the time for bosnia. that is why we attach great importance to the fact that this agency, which is to carry out the reconstruction of kosovo, is located in pristina. i admit that it is part of the larger agency for the reconstruction of the whole of the western balkans, of south-eastern europe, which will be based in thessaloniki. i shall now return to the question of the seat of the agency and all that depends on it, as well as the question of their effectiveness. what is the role of this agency in kosovo? she'll have to lead the reconstruction on site but she's not only responsible for the bricks and cement. it is also responsible for the reconstruction of relations relating to the rule of law, infrastructure. she's in charge of the refugee settlement. all this is necessary to provide refugees with decent housing and a chance to live again in kosovo. we are not only facing a post-war situation in kosovo, which, in terms of the damage suffered, is not as serious as we had originally imagined. we also know that the albanians are capable of rebuilding a lot of things themselves. they do not wait for others to provide the mortar. they're taking care of it themselves. they are also happy to have rebuilt part of their house, which allows them to continue their lives. no, the agency also has a very different mission. it must also fill the void created over the past nine years. the authorities are non-existent in kosovo. there are no administrative structures. this is why it is extremely difficult to carry out reconstruction and to establish businesses there. the situation regarding ownership is not yet clear. we cannot tell a western company that it has permission to establish itself in kosovo and take over a business. that's not possible because no one knows who owns this company. it is largely state-owned. the question of land ownership is not clarified either. all these are the main tasks which the agency will have to carry out and this can only be done on the spot! we need people who are doing really important work in kosovo. we need engineers, we need deminers, we need all the know-how. that's what this agency is for. in this case we have obtained certain things, that is to say, others have conceded them to us - and perhaps they have taken the lead in showing themselves docile to parliament. the director of the agency must, for example, submit a quarterly activity report to us, the european parliament must give the director a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget and the commission must submit to parliament an annual report approved by the management board of the agency. we also ask that parliament be consulted if the agency's work is extended to other related areas. such consultation may not take place solely on the basis of a decision of the council. we no longer accept being put in front of the fait accompli, we want to be consulted first! (applause) i would like to thank this report was sent to us in july. i spent my vacation looking at this report and then presenting it. the council has already communicated a common position on which it said yesterday that it could no longer change it. it doesn't happen like that. if we adopted this report today, the council would tell us that we had done a good job, that we had drawn up a good report, but that it was not interested in it. that will not happen today! we shall ask the commission to take a favourable position in accordance with the five points adopted yesterday. we shall be able to get the council to adopt most of what has been said here in the coming weeks, and preferably all of it, because we have been working very efficiently. (applause) now i come to a point that particularly infuriates me. the reconstruction agency, the trustee organization is in thessaloniki. the stability pact is based in brussels. can anyone explain to me how stability in the western balkans can be organized from brussels? i couldn't explain it, and i'm sure the person in charge couldn't explain it either! (applause) i would like to thank in this connection, i would urge you to help me to ensure that the council understands that the agency for the reconstruction of south-eastern europe, which is based in thessaloniki, must be closely linked to the stability pact, which is also based in thessaloniki! i would like to add a comment on this: the stability pact provides for the establishment of round tables. do you know what kind of round table this is? everyone in southeastern europe is tired of these round tables. in the end, they produce no practical results. we're organizing a working meeting for democratization and human rights? that's great, but the royaumont initiative is already on it. a round table is being organised in the field of reconstruction, development and economic cooperation but the seci, the south east europe cooperation initiative, is already dealing with this. we're holding round tables on security issues. the south eastern european defence ministers group is already doing this. so there are at least four organizations and groups that are setting up round tables, squares and working under the table. but in the end, there is no real result! that is why i urge the council to bring together the headquarters of the stability pact and the agency for reconstruction, to link them closely and finally to combine in an effective way the initiatives i have mentioned - i will not list them any more, they are in the minutes. we don't have to reinvent the road when people have been working on it for years. i therefore urge you to support me in ensuring the efficiency of this agency. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, when mr kinnock began his speech he referred to the need for funding and today, during the vote on supplementary and amending budget 4/99, we will make 92 million available to the agency. but i also say - and this is a request to the commission - that this tactic of sausage-making with regard to the supplementary and amending budget must stop. it is not a question of a creative budgetary policy, but rather of creative accounting. that is why, mrs schreyer, it would be wise to resolve this question by the second reading of the 2000 budget in december, in the light of the foreseeable problems with the supplementary budget for the year 2000. the council is no longer even officially represented by a member of its administration and when it adopts a common position without waiting for the parliament's position, the question of a new culture of responsibility and better cooperation should be put more decisively on the agenda of public discussions in europe. (applause) but we have time. the council will not formally discuss it until 11 october and will not take a final decision until then. mrs pack made it clear that the amendment to the regulation contained very positive approaches, such as the issue of decentralisation, openness in the tendering process and many other things. however, if the compromise on the headquarters issue was to appear in the final result as presented by mrs pack - on the one hand, the solution of establishing the headquarters in pristina, on the other, the integrated approach of thessaloniki - it is all the more important to clarify certain fundamental questions, that the enterprise as a whole should be placed under the responsibility of the commission, that the structure should not be more intergovernmental than that of existing agencies, that olaf should be able to investigate, that the establishment plan should be drawn up separately, that the budgetary competence of the european parliament should remain guaranteed and that it should be involved in the extension of the work. i would therefore ask the commission to draw up a new proposal on the basis of our amendment, in the spirit of the new cooperation in the five-point programme, so that we can find a satisfactory solution on the regulation and avoid the conflict being brought to the floor of the normal budgetary procedure. i would like to avoid that, but i reserve the right to do so if the council does not act.
- (de) mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, a great deal has been said about the reconstruction of kosovo. you know that parliament has worked hard to reach a compromise: we will stick to this line and are ready to make our contribution in this matter. i would like to address two issues which are not directly related to reconstruction but are of particular importance, not only for the future of kosovo but for the whole region. a fortnight ago, the un envoy, mr kushner, introduced a new currency in kosovo. i understand the need for a stable currency, including for the work carried out on the spot, but i do not understand this 'condemnation' of the dinar, the official currency of a state of which kosovo is still a part. the second decision is contrary to our common convictions and to the agreements reached between the un, nato and the kla. the kla is not disarmed - or at least not completely - and armed kla groups remain in other uniforms. does the european union have an opinion on these two issues, mr vice-president of the commission, and if so, what is it?
- (de) mr president, since the vice-president of the commission has refrained from expressing an opinion on the monetary and uck issues, may i conclude that the european union has no opinion on these issues?
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since 1972 the european community and unrwa have concluded nine conventions on the community's contribution to unrwa. the community is the main donor of economic and financial funds in this region. we must therefore, and we will have to, assume a great responsibility in relation to the palestinian refugees. unrwa has requested a contribution of eur 120 million for the period 1999-2001. the bulk of this contribution - €102 million - is for unrwa's education programme and €18 million supports its health programme. the green group welcomes the rapid discussions conducted by the european commission and the committees of the european parliament. we should adopt this proposal in plenary as quickly as possible. we must avoid budget cuts and delays in the project because of discussions on the legal basis. however, these problems seem to have been solved and it also appears that the justified criticisms made by the court of auditors on the shortcomings in the control of the application of the old conventions have been removed. transparency is the fundamental principle of our budgetary accounting. it must also be guaranteed when we provide urgent humanitarian aid, because at the end of the day we are using taxpayers' money. the implementation of this programme is urgent, as the education programme and health care are basic services. the education programme has become unrwa's largest special area of action. it provides education for over 445 000 pupils and apprenticeship for over 6 000 students. we also welcome need-based health care. they take place at the municipal level and benefit people directly through a network of 123 health centres. the palestinian refugees need this help because their long-standing refugee status in many cases causes serious psychological consequences, coupled with social and economic discrimination. as in the past, there is an urgent need for a political solution to the palestinian refugee problem. the peace negotiations have finally resumed, but the ceasefire and the status negotiations are not enough because the palestinian refugees are still excluded. we must offer them a prospect of life. the eu can make a major contribution to this. however, it is necessary at present to alleviate daily poverty through this programme, at least partially. that is why our group endorses mrs morgantini's report. the palestinian refugees can count on our solidarity and support.
- i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for his warm welcome. i think we're both into politics.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, i have been asked to make a short statement on the vote, so that our colleagues do not have to be corrected at home for a matter that is not worth discussing. so i would like to tell you what we are voting on: we do not want to delay the allocation of aid to kosovo. rather, we want to be effective. the council has proposed an ineffective procedure and that is why i ask you to understand that we must accept the seat in thessaloniki as an operational element, as part of the agency for the reconstruction of southeastern europe located in thessaloniki, which must be closely linked to the seat of the stability pact in that city. this is a very important political point. i ask you all to keep this fact in mind, it is a vital point. i would also like to make two further remarks. we want administrative simplification, more transparency, more flexibility, and we have said so in our amendments. we would also like to be associated with the decision that the council will take to extend the work to other regions, we must make our voice heard on this matter. we also want the agency to be limited to 30 months. the longer we delay, the less effective the work will be. we should try to get all the results within the limits we have set. it is also very important that olaf is set up... (the president cut the speaker off)
(de) after hearing what i have just said, i would ask the honourable members to agree with what commissioner kinnock said this morning on behalf of the commission and what the finnish presidency of the council told us yesterday, namely that we have no room for manoeuvre at the moment to act on our amendments. i ask you to refer the final vote back to the committee on foreign affairs so that these two bodies can have an opportunity to reflect on it, to take a broader view and then work with us to ensure greater efficiency.
- (de) i was told yesterday that i should ask for it to be referred back to committee so that we could proceed to the final vote at a later date. it is not a question of having a new debate but of buying time. whatever you think is right, do it.
- (de) mr president, i would like to congratulate mr kinnock on his new mandate and i hope that we will have an interesting and constructive dialogue with him in the coming years. i think there are two fundamental questions that follow from mr titley's statements. we know that russia is not only suffering from the financial crisis but also from the absence of fundamental democratic mechanisms, such as transparency, public control of the administration and an independent judiciary. in such a context, how does the important process of transformation of society have a chance to unfold? i have said it many times: our problem is that we are prioritizing the wrong action plan for russia. before a free trade area can be created, the democratic foundations of a market economy must be in place. on the other hand, the misuse of international funds and money laundering is also manifested in the weakness of western banks. how is it possible that the international credit trajectory was not followed? how is it possible to launder such large sums of money in the west? these questions also require answers.
- (de) mr president, the earthquake in turkey is certainly one of the most serious disasters of this century. there is no need to go over the number of victims. we also know that there will be tens of thousands of homeless people in turkey afterwards, people who will have to live without prospects for years in the earthquake-hit area. in these circumstances it is of course very important that we think more deeply about how we could act preventively in the face of these earthquakes. we can never start thinking too early about the consequences of an earthquake. it is necessary to establish an international dialogue on this tragedy, a dialogue which should identify the best ways of rebuilding the country. this dialogue could start between the european union and turkey. i agree with what mr swoboda has just said. however, in view of the current situation in turkey, namely the willingness to use relations with european partners, we should first discuss in a more concrete way, in the context of this amendment, the aid to be given to turkey, show our turkish friends that we are there when they need our help and give them the feeling that europe as a whole does not regard them as adversaries, as the turks often felt before the earthquake. my group's proposal is that we should think about how best to help turkey in the reconstruction process by offering it prospects. at the same time, we should also act openly and make it clear to turkey that we would be willing, in the context of the prospects of eu membership, to accept it as the 13th candidate country if it takes a step in our direction. the next three months will be a time of opportunity to seize this opportunity.
- (de) mr president, we cannot say that we have not had a speaker, that is not true. we've had a breakdown and that's why i'm starting my real intervention now. as a european of turkish origin, i was very keen to speak about the earthquake in greece. i think my greek friends will understand me if i, as a european of german but turkish origin, say to them 'silipitiria' (condolences) and that is what all the turks say to them too. the earthquake in greece - we have talked enough about turkey - may have caused a great many casualties, but it has helped to achieve much more than hundreds of amendments could have done. it is precisely in times of peace between greece and turkey that we have the opportunity here in the european parliament to bring the peoples of these two countries closer together and to get rid of what i have always tried to teach and what you have always tried to teach in school through history books, namely that the greeks and the turks hate each other. that is a blatant lie! turks and greeks have a great deal in common, and you may understand why i am making such an emotional speech as a german green member of parliament. i wanted to thank you and i wanted to say "silipitiria" again for the disaster caused by the earthquake in greece. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, the earthquake in turkey has brought to light the devastation in society. the death of over fifteen thousand people also stems from the scandalous enrichment of unscrupulous firms that have built buildings at little expense and whose activities have been covered up by politicians and government officials right up to the highest levels of the state. so earthquakes have often hit the poorest of the poor. as desperate victims pulled their loved ones from the rubble with their bare hands, the state showed that it was primarily concerned with itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. meanwhile, in earthquake-hit areas, it is rare to find soldiers with shovels. not only has ankara abandoned the victims to their own fate, but it has also confiscated aid and hampered the work of foreign ngos. these practices culminated in the demand of the minister of health, from the grey wolves, the mhp, to refuse the blood sent by the greeks for the victims. we cannot accept such contempt without reacting. however, it is good that both greeks and turks have decided to help each other. the turkish people have helped the greeks just as the greek people helped the turks after the earthquake. don't get me wrong, but western countries should not think they are superior to turkey. they should finally accept their responsibility for the political and economic situation in the bosphorus. only then will the way be clear for democratic change in turkey and for the provision of justified aid that really reaches the victims. the european union has spent thousands of euros on the victims in turkey. that is why i propose that a delegation be sent to turkey and greece to check whether the money has been distributed to the victims; whether the poorest, who really need the money, have actually received it. (applause) i would like to thank
- my astute advisers next to me tell me that, in accordance with our rules of procedure, the procedure of parliament and of the president of the sitting, my predecessor, was correct because the minutes state that the commission's statement on the financial crisis in russia is to take place from 3 to 4 p.m. and that the topical debate is to begin immediately after the commission's statement or at 4 p.m. at the latest. so that means that there is an alternative in the agenda that you have. that is the order of business for the sitting on 16 september. i'm sorry you had to stay longer, but formally, the session went well.
- b5-0071/99 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in dagestan; - b5-0090/99 by mr alavanos, mr schleicher, mr posselt and mr grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the conflict in the russian autonomous republic of dagestan; - b5-0095/99 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on dagestan; - b5-0103/99 by mr schroedter, mr lambert, mr isler béguin and mr voggenhuber, on behalf of the green group, on the armed conflict in the russian republic of dagestan.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must realize that the caucasus is in a state of flux. this is the tragic fate of the people of dagestan today. most of the news reports give us only a vague idea of the drama unfolding in that part of the world. it is urgent to send humanitarian aid there. first of all, it would be important that the people of dagestan be granted the same autonomy as their neighbours already enjoy. what's going on, though? we clearly lack objective information on the political situation in that country, but there is insufficient respect for human rights. the organization for security and cooperation in europe should be asked to submit a report to parliament, the commission and the council. the joint proposal for examination drawn up by various groups is also primarily aimed at ensuring that such information can reach us as quickly and as safely as possible. whoever is responsible for the situation in dagestan, it does not change the fact that it is the result of the dramatic events that took place after the fall of the iron curtain and that the countries in these regions are having enormous difficulties in liberating themselves. moreover, responsible political forces have always tried to weigh ethnic groups and divide them. we have seen this in our neighbourhood in the former yugoslavia, and we are seeing similar developments in more remote regions. we must do everything in our power to put out the fire that has started there so that the people of this part of the world can also develop peacefully, extend their autonomy and build a future, all things that we have achieved with great struggle in europe. we should always remember that europe suffered the same fate a few decades ago. we were reasonable then, we were in agreement, and today it is our duty to help the people of these regions in their development, which might be similar but which will ensure them a future that guarantees their existence and enables them to take their own destiny into their own hands.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago the war in chechnya was a daily concern. the european parliament's pressure resulted in decisive diplomatic steps being taken at the time. the danger of fire was already enormous but it could be ruled out. however, follow-up measures were lacking. this region is excluded from the action programme for russia that we have discussed today and the extremists, in a region where there is dramatic poverty, naturally have a good time. if we are interested in a comprehensive concept of security for the whole of europe, we cannot remain indifferent to the caucasus. the experts in the region know that measures are more difficult to take than ever before and that is why we included an evaluation mission in our resolution in the first place. everyone knows that at the moment, no one is willing to go there. nevertheless, the people there are in real need of humanitarian aid and it must be given priority. however, the extension of the osce's financial and personnel mandate should be seriously considered and i would ask mr kinnock to ask mr patten to inform us in the committee on foreign affairs of how this review has gone so that we can take further decisions. i believe that this is urgent and i consider it an important contribution to the stabilization of the region. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is closely following the situation in dagestan and the problems in moscow in this regard, to which mr wiersma referred. we deeply regret the loss of many lives and the displacement of nearly 40 000 people who have left their homes to flee military activity in the caucasus region. according to the information we have received, russian troops appear to have succeeded in retaking most or all of the villages occupied by the invading forces from chechnya. as you know, this is the second major incursion from chechnya since the beginning of august. fighting continues along the border. according to the information available to the commission, these invasions do not enjoy the support of the majority of the population of dagestan. as i speak, we do not know exactly whether and to what extent islamist extremists from outside the region have encouraged or financed the incursions. therefore, for the time being, the commission, together with other members of the international community, calls on the russian authorities to use proportionate force, both in the fighting on the territory of dagestan and in the pursuit beyond the chechen border. we also call on the chechen authorities to prevent such incursions from their territory. we also share the concerns of parliament and the citizens about what appears to be terrorist bombings in moscow and, as recently as this morning, in volgadansk. the commission joins the finnish presidency in expressing its sympathy to the russian authorities. we are awaiting the results of the official investigations in russia into these explosions before we assign responsibility for the atrocities to one group or another. the commission is reassured by official statements from moscow that neither the crisis in dagestan nor the bombings will be considered sufficient grounds for declaring a state of emergency and therefore postponing the forthcoming duma elections. all parties must at all costs avoid the current situation destabilising dagestan, causing longer-term destabilisation, or generating greater political instability throughout russia. mrs schroedter raised the question of a hearing with my colleague, mr patten, before the committee on foreign affairs. i shall be glad to pass on his remarks to mr patten and, knowing him, i am sure he will reply promptly.
- (de) mr president, unfortunately i was not properly informed and i wanted to ask whether i could still use the one minute of speaking time i had to make a statement.
(de) mr president, mr kinnock has very clearly emphasized the danger this situation represents for stability in europe and the world. there are fears that extremist forces will take advantage of this to ensure that a state of emergency is imposed in russia. no one knows exactly why these attacks took place. what is happening in russia today is extremely worrying. we condemn all forms of extremism, but we must know the ins and outs of this case. as far as chechnya and dagestan are concerned, these conflicts are the legacy of a brutal colonial regime which we will only be able to control gradually. it is therefore urgent to emphasize that russia must first fulfill its obligations under the peace agreement with chechnya and that it must encourage reconstruction in that country. secondly, we must avoid upsetting the ethnic balance in dagestan.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 5.30 p.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: citizens of kosovo in prison - b5-0080/99 by mr schori and mr swoboda, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on kosovo; - b5-0092/99 by mr pack and mr grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the imprisoned citizens of kosovo; - b5-0100/99 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation of detainees and missing persons from kosovo in serbia; b5-0073/99 by mr collins, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in burma; - b5-0081/99 by mr veltroni, on behalf of the pse group, on human rights and democracy in myanmar; - b5-0091/99 by mr maij-weggen, mr van hecke and mr grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the deplorable situation of human rights and democracy in myanmar; - b5-0096/99 by mr nicholson of winterbourne and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group, on myanmar; - b5-0108/99 by mr mckenna and mr de roo, on behalf of the green group, on human rights and democracy in myanmar. b5-0079/99 by mrs berès, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation of prisoners accused of espionage in iran; - b5-0098/99 by mrs malmström, on behalf of the eldr group, on the death sentences of four protesters in iran; b5-0069/99 by mr nicholson of winterbourne and mr watson, on behalf of the eldr group, on human rights violations in togo; - b5-0083/99 by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the ppe group, on the human rights situation in togo; - b5-0106/99 by mr rod, mr maes, mr schörling, mr lucas, mr boumediene-thiery, on behalf of the green group, on the situation in togo; citizens of kosovo imprisoned
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second time that we are debating kosovo today. we are now discussing a matter on which we cannot change much without a minimum of goodwill on the part of the powers that be in belgrade. unfortunately, the situation of the albanian prisoners in belgrade and the missing is not mentioned in either the kumanovo agreement concluded between nato and the yugoslav government or the un resolution which gave the mandate for the international presence in kosovo. in this respect, we could have also drawn lessons from our experience in bosnia-herzegovina. today, three years after dayton, we still do not know where many of the missing are. i get calls every week from families who are still looking for missing people and have no information. how can there be such inhumanity in holding thousands of his fellow men in prison for years in appalling conditions for no reason at all? how can we leave their families, wives, mothers and children in uncertainty about their fate? perhaps we should appeal more to the fathers of families or the sons who are also politicians and power holders in this region. unfortunately, we can't force them to do it. the serbian regime does not offer us that possibility. however, their behaviour is contrary to the rule of law and even more so to humanitarian principles. we therefore call on mr kushner, the un administrator in kosovo, and on the osce to find ways of freeing them. we also base our hopes on a subcommittee on prisoners and detainees in kosovo, which is part of the transitional council. we hope, however, that no country in the international community will lift the sanctions against serbia until - and this is one of the conditions - these prisoners are released. peaceful coexistence between serbs and albanians, just as coexistence between croats, muslims and serbs in bosnia and herzegovina, is only possible after the issue of prisoners and deportees, among other issues, has been resolved. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, regional cooperation between the west african states has been progressing in recent times. the outlines of an economic community for west africa, modelled on the european union, are emerging. however, the weaknesses of the democratic institutions, in particular those of the togolese parliament, are one of the major obstacles to deeper regional integration. the epp group therefore welcomes the important efforts made by almost all the political forces in togo to make the development of democracy irreversible and to prepare for parliamentary elections in the coming months, which must be free from any democratic bias and from pressure from the army, the president and his entourage. we are in favour of a peaceful transition to a fully functioning democracy. we accept that president eyadema is running until his term expires in 2003, although the process of counting the votes in the last presidential elections was marred by more than minor imperfections. however, we also call on the president of togo and his government to agree with all the political forces in the country which respect democratic rules on an electoral system which gives equal opportunities to all. we welcome the very constructive role played in this respect by the french ombudsman, mr bernard stasi, and his two german and austrian colleagues. it is essential that the elections be prepared in an impeccable manner, conducted impartially and that they result in a government elected by the togolese people in a free and democratic manner.
commission - mr president, i must confess that as i listened to the debates in a very large format this afternoon, i was reminded of the maxim that if the situation depresses you in domestic affairs, it will make you despair in international affairs. none of us can afford to be so pessimistic and that is why voices have been raised in this democratic chamber to express deep concern and call for action. i welcome that very sincerely. this shows that there are better and more interesting things to do than to give in to despair, as representatives and political activists as well as the general public may sometimes be tempted to do. may i begin with the debate on kosovo and the various tragedies that are affecting this sad part of the world? the commission fully shares the concerns expressed in the motions for resolutions tabled in the house. these concerns concern the continuing ethnic violence in kosovo as well as the previous disappearances and imprisonments. we naturally join with members of this parliament in strongly condemning violence, irrespective of the ethnic group responsible or the victim, and we actively support the efforts of minuk, kfor and the osce to restore public order in kosovo. the commission shares the deep concern of this house for the fate of the many civilians who have not yet been found. we are therefore directly involved in the efforts to find out which of the missing persons are still in serbian prisons, which were killed during the war and under what circumstances. the union is therefore cooperating with the forensic investigations into the allegations of war crimes and, earlier this week, the general affairs council expressed its concern that the question of the thousands of missing - the vast majority of whom are kosovo albanians - was still unresolved. finally, the commission has repeatedly condemned the clear failure of the authorities of the federal republic of yugoslavia, serbia, to respect the standards accepted by the international community in the field of humanity and minority rights. the disregard for international obligations thus manifested is one of the main obstacles to the improvement of relations between the former yugoslav republic and the european union and also an obstacle to the return of the former republic to the international community. there is a strong chance that this obstacle will remain as long as the serbian authorities continue with their current policy. i now turn to the resolution on the situation in burma. the assembly is aware that the commission sincerely deplores the continuing human rights violations by the burmese military authorities, including the oppression of ethnic minorities, the persecution of aung san suu kyi and other members of the nld, the denial of basic trade union rights and the use of forced labour, the prohibition of free opposition, the incalculable number of arbitrary arrests and a state of continuing violence. we also share the concerns expressed about the treatment of european union citizens who have been arrested for openly engaging in pro-democracy activities in burma. in april this year, the european union's common position reinforced the political decision of october 1998, extending it to transit visas and banning tourist visits by people linked to the burmese authorities. the commission was in favour of this initiative; it supports the democratic movement and the refugees in burma, including, of course, financial aid to the brussels office. the council is currently reviewing the common position and, as the honourable members pointed out during the debate, its extension should be decided before 29 october. the commission has made it clear that although burma has become a member of asean, the european union cannot accept burma's participation in the ec-asean agreement. we take every opportunity to put pressure on our asian partners to urge the burmese government to engage in a broad dialogue with the opposition, led by aung san suu kyi, and ethnic minorities and to make a radical change in policy to respect human rights. you are aware that aung san suu kyi recently renewed her call for the strengthening of international economic sanctions against burma, including unilateral sanctions, as long as the current regime controls the country she loves. the commission took part in the recent visit of the european troika to rangoon, which was intended to lay the first foundations for a political dialogue with burma, as provided for in the council conclusions of 26 april. the purpose of the political dialogue is to explain the common position of the european union on the treatment of human rights and the absence of the rule of law and democracy in burma and to help create the conditions for a political dialogue between the spdc, the ruling military junta, on the one hand, and the democratic opposition and representatives of ethnic minorities, on the other. the european commission intends to keep up the pressure on the spdc, the former slorc. in the meantime, the international situation continues to deteriorate and the repeated appeals of the international community to the burmese authorities to take initiatives to promote democracy, human rights and national reconciliation are not receiving much response. the commission therefore remains in favour of renewing the common position next month and of strict application of the pressure and sanctions that follow. i now turn to iran, which is again the subject of our attention following the resolutions submitted to this house. you are aware that the commission shares with this house its deep concern about the human rights situation in iran. the representatives of the european union are constantly returning to the issues directly related to human rights in the context of our comprehensive dialogue with iran. although the commission has no bilateral contractual relationship with iran, nor any representation in that country, it is associated with the approach of the eu troika. the treatment of members of religious minorities in iran, particularly the baha'is, was raised by the troika in meetings with the iranian government in december last year and may this year. we will keep up the pressure on this. as regards the specific points relating to the human rights violations raised by mr zimeray and mr morillon and ms malmström, i would say that the finnish presidency is busy working out, following the death sentences of four students, a policy of the union troika which echoes the views expressed by this parliament. the commission is also concerned about the trial of 13 jews from chiraz on charges of espionage. the union has taken several steps in this respect, both through the troika and bilaterally. it is clear that the recent developments in iran reflect the power struggle between moderate reformists and hardline conservatives within the country. the conservatives' efforts to take back the initiative and undermine the government should be seen as a prelude to the general elections scheduled for february. in the meantime, the commission considers that, especially in the run-up to the elections, the policy of cautious openness towards iran must be continued through a broad dialogue, in order to encourage the khatami government and the reformists, many of whom are showing considerable courage in working for change in extremely difficult and dangerous conditions. i now turn to the problem of togo. the assembly is aware that in 1992 the european community suspended its development cooperation with togo. despite some changes since then, i regret to say that the conditions for the resumption of development cooperation and the full normalisation of relations with togo - respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and human rights - are not yet sufficiently met. however, some progress towards political reconciliation has been made thanks to the lomé framework agreement concluded between the government and the opposition in july this year. this progress has been made possible by the european union observers, as mr watson has pointed out. the union therefore intends to support the continued efforts of these observers, as well as projects related to the full restoration of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the commission welcomes the will expressed by the government and the opposition to make progress on the framework agreement, but further substantial progress - for example the successful holding of early parliamentary elections next year - is required before we can consider resuming regular cooperation. the commission shares the specific concerns about the human rights situation in togo as expressed in the resolutions submitted to this house. it is very worrying that the human rights violations recently reported by amnesty international have been largely confirmed by other sources. however, some of the most serious accusations of mass killings have not yet been verified. the commission therefore considers that the investigations should be continued. the assembly should know that wherever problems arise in relation to human rights, the united nations system provides a whole range of monitoring mechanisms to promote the improvement of the situation. the commission believes that such mechanisms should be considered in the case of togo. it would seem that they are quite justified. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0070/99 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the uen group, on the lusaka peace agreement; - b5-0082/99 by mr van hecke and mr corrie, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the lusaka ceasefire agreement; - b5-0084/99 by mr miranda and mr morgantini, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the lusaka agreements on the future of the great lakes region in africa; - b5-0094/99 by mr van hecke, mr corrie and mr grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the lusaka ceasefire agreement; - b5-0099/99 by mr van den bos and mr nicholson of winterbourne, on behalf of the eldr group, on the lusaka ceasefire agreement; - b5-0101/99 by mr maes, mr rod, mr schörling, mr lucas and mr boumediene-thiery, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the lusaka peace agreement concerning the great lakes region.
commission - mr president, let me once again express the commission's thanks to the members for the way in which they have brought this very important matter to the attention of the house this afternoon. the commission considers that the european union, together with the rest of the international community, must take decisive initiatives to contain the repercussions of the crisis in the great lakes countries, a crisis which, as the honourable members have pointed out, threatens in many ways the stability and security of the whole of africa. the european union's policy is therefore based on the need to deal with the repercussions of the great lakes conflict in its threefold dimension: regional, with the need not to lose sight of the interests of neighbouring countries; national, with the need to take into account the interests of the government, rebel groups and the democratic opposition; and finally, local, with clashes between communities, generated by ethnic rivalries and strong social pressures. in this context, the union is making significant efforts to mediate and promote dialogue at the various levels of the conflict, and the commission is ready to contribute to the success of the lusaka ceasefire agreement in the following areas. firstly, in terms of political support, the european union intends to continue and encourage the efforts already undertaken by our special representative for the great lakes region to achieve sufficient intensity of dialogue between the different factions involved in the conflict in the democratic republic of congo. the union is determined to continue to promote and finance mediation efforts, in particular those of the zambian president, who was the first to make the lusaka agreement possible. this action is necessary to try to prevent signatories from reneging on their commitment to comply with their obligations. the lusaka agreement provides for a national debate in the drc to reconcile the various political forces in the drc and to shape a new political landscape in the drc. the commission is also prepared to finance mediation efforts to bring about this national debate. secondly, among the efforts we are committed to provide is support for peacekeeping operations by the united nations and the organization of african unity. several member states are contributing to the team of 90 un military observers in the region's capitals and between the rebel groups' military commands to monitor the implementation of the lusaka agreement. these actions should also support the joint military commission responsible for organising the deployment of a peacekeeping or peace-keeping force. the un security council has yet to decide on the nature of such a force. the union will then be able to decide what support to give and how. thirdly, as regards economic and development support, the commission could and should reactivate its commitments under the lomé convention provided that the following two conditions are met: first, an improvement in the security situation in the drc and, second, the conclusion of the national debate in a stable political landscape which respects the main provisions of the lomé convention. the commission's support for the reconstruction and development effort would then focus on the following points: first, the establishment of the rule of law and the democratization of national institutions; second, the demobilization and socioeconomic reintegration of the belligerents; thirdly, restoration of the environment, especially in the provinces of kivu and eastern kivu; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. of course, i am also sensitive to the call, among others, by mrs maes for a strict halt to arms trafficking of all kinds, which continues to fuel conflicts in the region and which often originates from here, from the european union. finally, it is clear that humanitarian aid is a permanent necessity and the european community humanitarian office, echo, has made some €55.5 million available this year. we will continue our efforts to support a lasting stability. it is also natural that we will continue to ensure that parliament is fully informed, because we greatly appreciate its commitment to our common objectives of stability and lasting peace in this sorely tried region. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place as soon as the vote resumes. (the sitting was suspended at 5.28 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
- (de) madam president, in the past our parliament has treated the situation in algeria from a very critical point of view, but it was also the first parliament to seek contact and dialogue with the algerian parliament. the result of yesterday's referendum gives us cause to rejoice with the algerian people, who are on the road to reconciliation and are striving to bring peace to the country. i would ask you, madam president, to convey the congratulations of this parliament to the algerian president.
i'm the surveyor. - (de) madam president, i should like to begin by saying that we have really done a lot of work in the past week. i was very pleased to see that you, as president, have been so attentive to all the difficulties and questions from members and also from officials. i would like to refer to two points which were raised here and adopted by the college of quaestors. your wheeled drawers have not only been adopted, they've already been ordered. we therefore assume that they will also be delivered as soon as possible. secondly, the question of the building's configuration. french law is very strict in this respect, it considers this building as a work of art on which the architects have an intellectual property right. but we decided - intellectual property or not - to negotiate with the architects to make everything that is dark a little brighter. if it's already dark with the july sun, what will it look like in the pale light of december? we don't want to do this to anyone. i hope, mr president, that we can turn red into pink and dark blue into perhaps light blue or something like that, and black perhaps into champagne. a third point which is very important for me and for all of us is security, which you have perhaps not mentioned in such detail, madam president. you will recall that we suggested - and this has now been adopted - that a new security check be carried out on this building twice a year, i.e. every six months. we believe it is essential that a building which is used so intensively by so many different groups, and in a somewhat chaotic and anarchic way - and this chaos is a perfect example of the liveliness of european politics - should also be subject to very regular checks. a body such as the european parliament cannot assume security alone, cannot be responsible for it and must be able to delegate this responsibility. that's what we'll do. i would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the college of quaestors, to formulate any complaints you may have and to address them to us. with your support, madam president, they will be resolved as quickly as possible.
- (de) madam president, i should like to begin by saying to those colleagues who are thanking the french government or the city of strasbourg for this building that they are at the wrong address. we built it, and therefore we must also take responsibility for any mistakes that have been made. but i'm not here to rent anything. this place is beautiful. i wish to pin down the many mistakes. firstly, madam president, if you were to send a fax to my office or to my colleagues' offices, i could tell you that it is almost impossible. you have to get on a chair, which is a swivel chair, to be able to look at this camera from above. you know very well that in all european households most accidents happen because housewives always ride on any wheelchair, which should be avoided as much as possible. i don't want to know how much money the insurance company in this building is gonna have to pay for all the average-sized people getting on the chairs. i'm one of them. i'm only 5'6". this machine is not up to my standards. i'm asking for a solution. because it says "do not move". secondly, madam president, i'm driving home in a normal car through the entrance to our parking lot. there's no way to get to level two without reversing into the corner. you can imagine the situation during rush hour. vehicles are coming in from the left, front, back, and you'd always have to back up to take the turn. i urge that these median strips be cut in half so that we can go back without turning back. besides, i don't understand why, at the entrance to the parking lot, i have to insert my badge twice, once at the top and once in the middle. it's crazy. once i get back up there, i can still go on. i don't understand why i have to do the same thing again when i go out at night. once i'm in, let me out of here! those are two impossible things. at rush hour, it's totally unfeasible. thirdly, i would like to have my newspaper in the morning. there are no newsstands nearby. i still haven't found him. i always ask someone who knows where he is to bring me a newspaper. fourth, i've been on an elevator five times this week that never got me to my floor. i wanted to go down to the tenth floor. it was impossible. it's happened to me five times. i decided to avoid that elevator and tried to take another one each time. that is clearly an untenable situation in this building. as the head of a delegation - i am the chairman of the delegation for south-east europe, this has nothing to do with the louise weiss building, but with the salvador de madariaga building - i would like to make one more request. the delegation shares at least one small cage with four others, which i used to occupy alone. one communicates with dagestan, the second with moscow, the third with macedonia and the fourth with cologne perhaps. can you imagine that in a room? i'm really asking you to do something for the civil servants. the current situation is intolerable!
- (de) madam president, i know that you are certainly trying to address all the dysfunctions that have been encountered here. i think we should also be careful not to blame the architects for all the mistakes and instead blame ourselves. there is one thing that seems quite inexcusable to me. we have all stressed in this parliament in countless motions for resolutions that renewable energy is the technology of the future for the 21st century. this week the un released a report which says that energy saving is one of the themes of the coming decades. i find it inexcusable that, while we are calling for a 'one million roofs' programme for solar energy, we have not invested in renewable energy either in strasbourg or in brussels and that we are not doing anything here to save energy: for example, the lobbies of our offices are lit day and night, it is impossible to turn off the lights, etc. in the bettini report, seven years ago, we demanded exactly that. there are several exchanges of letters with the bureau. mr. priestley will fill you in. i was told it was too expensive. this is simply wrong and unacceptable! you know that renewable energy would be depreciated in nine to 12 months. what explanation should be given to construction companies in the member states? we invite them to install solar roofs when we do nothing similar on our own roof, and furthermore by making the totally fallacious argument of costs. energy saving, energy efficiency, renewable energy - that is what we are calling for every day in our resolutions! madam president, this is very serious, because we are not being credible if we do not serve as a model, if we do not make it clear that these are the issues of the next millennium. if we do not even put this into practice here, then we have lost some credibility too! i therefore urge you to correct the unforgivable mistakes made here and in brussels and to convene immediately a working party to put together proposals to remedy the situation. i would also like to see an energy efficiency plan drawn up for both buildings. because i think we can't afford to waste so much energy here while telling the public to save energy. we all know about the co2 problem and so on. madam president, this is a very serious subject which you have unfortunately not touched upon here. i would also like you to explain to me why this was not included in the design and how we can solve this problem in the future. we must solve these problems, with a firm emphasis on renewable energy, energy saving and energy efficiency. i think we simply have an obligation to the public to set an example. i think we can all agree that environmental problems are those which require urgent solutions. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) i agree with my colleague mr andrews that we must not forget to be grateful. we must be grateful for this building, grateful for the working conditions we now have in strasbourg after 20 years and more of a provisional solution. we must also welcome the way our president accepts our criticism. that too must be said. i consider today's question time to be a completely new one. this has not happened since the direct vote in 1979. i would like to propose that we do the same thing for other things from time to time. i think that a discussion between parliament and the presidency is both appropriate and very necessary. as far as practical matters are concerned, i believe that this building, which is certainly very beautiful and very valuable, should naturally also be occupied full time as a result. i should like to refer to what some colleagues have said. in order to use this building effectively, we must ensure that all our plenary sessions are held there, including friday, so that we have a whole week in which we can, as my colleague mrs ludford has suggested, deal with our constituencies in a particularly intensive way. if we do not use this building properly, if we close the session on thursday, making thursday a friday, congestion will occur. this accumulated work leads to countless additional plenary sessions. we have a whole series of sessions every week. i suggest...
- (de) i should like to say that it is apparently my intervention alone that has enabled this cafeteria, for example, to be open today, and certain services to function. i would like to ask that this building be used fully from monday to friday during the session.
- (de) mr president, there is an expression that says 'black is beautiful'. i'm all for it. i have noticed in germany that from one country to another, black is stronger than red or green. i therefore approve of this dominance. but you still have to be careful. too much black can be somewhat darkening. there's been some modifications to the elevators. i'm very pleased. but a bar that operates all day as a night bar, despite this beautiful flower carpet, is certainly not an evolution that we can accept. because this place is supposed to be for tea or coffee. we want to meet in the light of day and not just appear as a dark shadow. i think the problem of the stairs is more serious. i've also been stuck in the elevator a few times. i like exercise enough to walk down from the sixth or seventh floor. but all the stairs there are completely black. i have seen colleagues clinging to the ramp in anguish, not knowing where this walk begins and where that one ends. we need safe zones because it can get very dangerous and end up in falls. some colleagues think we need a lot more color. i've been working in design for 20 years now. we should stick to principles. the architects chose the shale. shale is not just black, shale is white and silver and gray. so we certainly have opportunities to make changes based on these shades of color, so that we don't have to work in a building where black is not just majestic, but where too much black ends up oppressive. we should proceed with caution to silver and other colors. i think we can finally say that it's in favor of greater clarity, greater transparency, so that we can show ourselves instead of hiding. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for having rightly addressed all these subjects. i would like to mention three points. first, the services. in the past, cleaning services always started very early. when we got to the office at 7:30, we could work in peace. now they arrive much later. if you want to be at the 9:00 sharp session, the elevators are crammed with cleaning services, who take a long time to get in and out because of their carts. could we not ensure that the cleaning services do not do their work precisely at peak times for members? these hours are well known. i urge you to reconsider. the second point is access to the garage. this has been mentioned before, but when we arrive or leave with our belongings, we have to climb giant stairs every time we use the elevators. it's really hard with all our suitcases and our papers. that's not enough. i ask that this be corrected. the third point concerns the many different badges. i have been asking myself whether it is not technically possible at the present time to have one electronic badge for everything. i don't know if you're aware that the badge that opens the car park has to be used in the opposite direction compared to brussels. so you have to take it out every time, then you lose it, then another one, because it falls. they are simply gaps. i maintain that the technology is now advanced enough to be able to put it all together in one badge. that would save us the trouble of carrying three, four, or five different badges. i'm asking you to reconsider.
- (de) no, not on the rules of procedure, i signed up for it a long, long time ago, at the very beginning. i enrolled at the same time as mrs. berger. my name is on the list. i wanted to be part of it.
- (de) in that case, you should have said so much earlier. i would have left the chamber and followed the debate from my office, where i too have work to do.
- (de) ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have been watching the debates in this house in recent years know that there are few people in this house who have worked as hard and i would even say with as much enthusiasm as i have on the question of safety of meat, especially beef from great britain, when i was chairman of the last bse committee. there was even a report that i knew every cow in britain by name. that's not true, man. mr. schmid said i knew half of them. that's not true either, but i know at least a few. i am the last person who would want to see meat anywhere in the european union that is not safe. this parliament has ensured that this committee of inquiry is set up. secondly, we have tried to fill the remaining gaps in many areas of food law in the bse debate. parliament can be proud of the results it has achieved over the last five years. however, these results have been achieved through serious and reasonable work. this means, among other things, that we have met the deadlines and worked on the right basis. i understand very well why some members complain when a member state is exempted from food legislation. i am glad that my own country, germany, has not been criticised for a while now for behaving in a similar way. madam president, tomorrow we shall be starting a broad debate on food security in general, following an interesting initiative you have put forward. this covers a much larger area than meat, dioxin, sewage sludge or swine fever. this is a debate on food safety and quality. in the future, within the european union, we also want to discuss food security with mr prodi, the president of the commission himself. if we want to strip this debate of its global character and if we want to change the subject of the debate, the surest way is to look once again at beef from britain. we shall then have another debate on bse tomorrow. i'd be happy to participate. i don't have a problem with that. i also think i know a great many cases almost by heart. i can do that. however, i do not think we should do that. and there's another reason for that. two days ago, the french food agency expressed doubts about the safety of british beef. i haven't read any papers on this yet. i haven't seen any written documents yet. the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment have not yet been able to deal with this matter. i would like to see a serious debate on this. that is why i ask you, madam president, not to debate this matter tomorrow but in two weeks' time, when it is still useful to do so, so that the committees responsible can deal with it. i also ask you to ensure that we do tomorrow what we are here to do, namely that the food... (the president cut the speaker off)
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am deeply sorry to have to contradict my esteemed colleague, mrs hautala. we have told a very large majority of the conference of presidents, that is to say, the group chairmen, that we do not want a resolution on the wto at the moment, because we have yet to discuss it. we shouldn't be drafting a proposal as part of an emergency procedure to make ourselves popular here and there. that is why we are maintaining our decision not to draft a resolution in haste, also to respect our vote in the conference. mrs hautala, as regards the representatives of parliament at the wto conference in seattle, we agreed that the european parliament should be represented by 15 members, just as the american congress is asking. this means that this opinion does not depend on whether we adopt a resolution or not. i speak for my group: we want to be represented on an equal footing with the americans, but we are opposed to what parliament says on this subject at the moment.
- (de) madam president, i should like to express my sincere thanks for the rapid resolution of the problems we described during the previous partsession. i can now use my fax machine, which is at a height that fits my waist. thank you very much .
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, i would ask that we reject the request for urgency. in the last part-session we did not decide on urgency because we wanted to give the council and the commission still the opportunity to really look at our amendments in order to evaluate them and possibly accept them. it is unacceptable that after we have rushed to respond to the council's request by writing a report during the summer break, the council does not deign to take note of the amendments we have tabled, let alone consider whether to follow them. we expect the council to tell us by the next partsession in october which amendments it accepts and which it rejects. during the last partsession in brussels, mr patten told us that he would also consider these proposals before he sent us his own proposal. i think that when parliament puts forward proposals to improve the efficiency of spending taxpayers' money, the council should not do the opposite. when funds disappear or are ineffective, the fault always lies with the commission and never with the council. we would like everything to be fully ready when this agency starts its activities, we would like its administration to be strict, we would like the seat of the agency for the reconstruction of kosovo to be closely linked to that of the stability pact and to be actually located in thessaloniki, and we would like the operational part of the agency for the reconstruction of kosovo to be located in kosovo. we also want the administrative structures to be sufficiently rigorous to ensure that we can see exactly how the money is being spent. i am wrong to say that the reconstruction of kosovo will not be possible if we do not vote today. this is nonsense. the european commission's task force is already working on the ground. it does so, and you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission is not the quickest to pay, and that we cannot therefore say that it will pay tomorrow for the task entrusted to it today. it can very well entrust a task today and if the assessment of the necessary funds is carried out in october, it may pay - at the earliest - in november or december - as always very late, alas. we are not the ones who are preventing the reconstruction of kosovo. the council is to blame if it does not follow us soon on the path we have embarked upon.
president of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee approves the remarks made by the rapporteur. moreover, since the council decision is not expected this week, no delay should be expected. moreover, neither the commission nor parliament have received, at present, any official reply from the council to the reflections we have made. that is why i am asking you to dismiss the emergency request.
commission. - (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, and especially in recent months, an uninterrupted series of food scandals has traumatized the european citizens whom you represent. today, as in the past, citizens no longer trust what they put on their plates, and they no longer trust governments or even scientists to guarantee that food products are truly natural. our task today is to do everything we can to ensure that this loss of consumer confidence does not happen again. this problem concerns us personally, you and me, as it does every european consumer. so we have a responsibility to protect the health of our fellow citizens. we therefore have a duty to take decisive action quickly, as our citizens want. food safety is an integral part of health protection. it is therefore a crucial problem, also because of its cultural dimension, which we must not neglect. the problem of food is part of the european lifestyle and identity. that is why food safety has become a top priority for the commission, and i am delighted that this discussion on public health and food safety is the first sector-specific discussion of my mandate. in terms of hygiene and safety, we must anticipate action, to use a sporting metaphor, rather than limit ourselves to extinguishing fires, as we have done so far; we have to smother them in the egg, anticipate their formation. to achieve this, an effective and credible food security system needs to be established. as a consumer, i must know exactly what is in a food product, a package, a can, and i have a right to know because this right is, among other things, guaranteed by the amsterdam treaty. the labels do not always give me complete information and i am not always aware of the nutritional and health implications of my choice. i often don't understand the environmental and ethical implications of the manufacturing process. suppose the newspapers report a food scandal. as a consumer, i cannot understand whether there is a real reason for alarm or whether this is just a journalistic invention. if i look on the internet, a lot of information is not understandable. in short, i do not know whether the information is credible or whether it has been manipulated for political and economic purposes. these are just some of the aspects of consumer policy which we need to look at. citizens need to know exactly what they are eating. allowing consumers access to a community early warning system could be a step forward, ensuring that this system covers both agricultural products and animal feed. this would allow the dissemination of a system which would allow us to avoid too counterproductive alerts and simply shout "fire! fire!" however, too many recent warnings have proved to be justified. we must therefore strengthen our food inspection system. the whole production chain, from upstream to downstream, must be carefully and rigorously controlled at each stage and in each member state. in the single market, all citizens have the right to equal protection. we therefore need to update the legislation on which the food inspection system is based. the commission presented a green paper in 1997 which will have to be followed by adequate and substantive provisions to refine and update our food legislation. for example, when it comes to food products and processed foods, more than 100 basic guidelines are now in force. we need one single set of rules. food legislation will also have to cover the whole food chain, from farmers to consumers and from animal feed production, which has been one of the most sensitive points in recent months. this legislation will have to be flexible in order to allow it to be adapted to the evolution of scientific knowledge and new production techniques. it should be based on sound and up-to-date scientific information and advice. at present the commission is consulting high-level scientists whose opinions are transparent and whose interests are publicly stated. but it is absolutely essential that we regain the confidence of the citizens in our food choices. scientists must be independent of any obscure political pressure. the establishment of an independent european food agency could help us achieve this. many member states have already started this process and have set up independent food safety authorities. a european food agency could, for example, be modelled on the emea, the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products. this agency has no decision-making power but it carries out highly technical work with great speed and efficiency. if a drug causes a problem, this agency is able to determine the cause within hours. but in the case of a food alert, this can take weeks and weeks. the agency could also be modelled on the us federal food and drug administration, which has considerable initiative and decision-making powers. such a body would enable rapid intervention in food security in a politically independent manner. the problem, of course, is how to ensure that decisions are taken democratically. and that is why it is so important that this debate be held before parliament. that is why we are here today, because there is no doubt that we are faced with a choice in which the problem of democracy is extremely important. i am not sure that this agency can be set up with the guarantees that some people are calling for under the treaty. here too we must look deeper into the problem. my choice is not yet made, it's a choice we must make together. but let us remember that consumers need clear, precise but also strong choices and that there is no room for uncertainty, because uncertainty has been too much in all these years. i would add, moreover, that security is becoming an international value, as has been demonstrated by the controversies with the united states and other countries. the world trade organisation is the appropriate framework for resolving these disputes and, in the context of the millennium round, the european union will push for credible international food safety standards, with the participation of consumer representatives. we will also have to shed light on how the precautionary principle has been applied in food safety. this is another pillar. the idea behind the precautionary principle is very simple: temporary safety measures should be taken when scientific information is incomplete and safety is in doubt. the problem, however, is that scientific information is always incomplete because the limits of our knowledge are constantly changing. the precautionary principle therefore raises questions: what level of health concern should be reached? who has to make a value judgment before introducing trade restrictive measures on the basis of the precautionary principle? what scientific knowledge must we have before we have to abandon these measures? we need to clarify these various points and a parliamentary debate is appropriate. i would like to stress that consumer health protection will be at the heart of the trade negotiations initiated by the european union. we are categorically opposed to the community signing international agreements which we believe endanger the health of european citizens, even though this may be highly controversial. i would also like to emphasize that the union's food policy must have food safety as its fundamental objective and that it should be at the service of consumers and their health. health is therefore a priority. i am convinced that a strict food safety policy also serves the interests of european farmers and the european processing industry: agricultural and processing companies must be at the forefront of producing high quality food. here, public trust is essential. what initiatives does the commission intend to take? we want to avoid disorderly reactions leading to disorderly measures. we must be cautious, concerned and determined. food security is an area in which we must proceed very cautiously, not in haste but with a certain degree of speed. before the end of the year we will therefore be presenting to the council and parliament a white paper on food safety and a communication on the precautionary principle which requires further study. the white paper will contain an action plan for food security, accompanied by a precise timetable of initiatives for the next three years, including options for the european food agency. we are aiming at a thorough reform of food legislation and to this end all the commission's proposals will be presented by the end of the year 2000. on this basis, we intend to have an updated organic set of rules by the year 2002, as it will take some time to develop. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not contaminated. we must, however, ensure that consumer representatives are involved in this decision-making process in a much more intensive way. the task of educating and guiding the public is in fact the responsibility of consumer representatives. there are very important issues involved, issues that may even cause emotional reactions. clearly, though, to be fruitful, a discussion must not take place in an atmosphere of emotional dominance. i therefore sincerely hope that our debate will be distinguished not by the tensions it will generate but by the clarity it will succeed in bringing. we must feel safe ourselves and we must share that security with the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, mr prodi, commissioner byrne, sometimes it seems that european food policy only makes progress when a new scandal breaks out. bse and dioxin were good examples. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that politics is largely based on facts, but it is also based on passion: without passion, innovation is impossible. i think, mr prodi, that the question is not limited to one agency but that it is rather a question of providing europe with a european food framework directive, a directive which we have been asking the commission to adopt for more than ten years. unfortunately, we do not see it coming. i think we have a lot of good specific directives, but they are orbiting europe like satellites. las, no one's following that. today we are once again witnessing the seriousness of the commitment of the member states of this union to this theme. as you have very rightly pointed out, the council of the european community did not consider it necessary to be present at the first debate on this question. (applause) i find this scandalous because the debate on dioxin is a matter for the member states and not for the commission. i think they could have had the decency to be represented at the highest level in today's debate. the problem we have in the food sector is that the member states do not implement the sensible measures taken by the commission and parliament. (applause) mr commissioner, i agree with you that the concept of the agency is a good one. i would, however, urge you not to make it a satellite of the kind so common in europe. these are variants of rotary clubs which work alone and over which parliament has no control. (applause) i would like to thank for years i was the rapporteur on the budget in the committee on the environment. that's the only real gateway. that's the exact opposite of what we need. parliament must have a say in events, it must be able to intervene. when parliament takes a decision, things have to get going in such an agency so that it really works for the european citizens. that's what we want, and besides, that's what we get paid for. you have rightly stressed the need for an early warning system. we need a precautionary system. there is a concept called "corporate responsibility". but the experience of recent years is quite the opposite of this concept, commissioner. what has happened with the early warning agreement is a clear violation of the rules. the member states simply reversed that agreement. this must be clearly stated if we want a new policy for the environment and consumers. finally, commissioner, let me turn to another subject: there is a european directive on the authorization of plant protection products: it was adopted in 1991 and came into force in 1993. at that time we jointly committed ourselves to including some 700 active substances in circulation on a european positive list. at present, more than half of the planned deadline has passed. commissioner, after six years only one substance has been added to the positive list. i can only ask you, therefore, where are the hundreds of officials who are responsible for conducting this examination. i think it is high time we took action on this matter. that's the next scandal on the list. i wouldn't want to be responsible for that. i therefore urge you, on behalf of my group, to give serious consideration to these specific points. you have our support. and i have to say again, i feel like the priest in my parish, who always addresses the wrong people, which is the people who are there. they're not the ones we should be talking to. but the council is again absent and that makes me particularly angry. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, mr prodi, i know that i have not been very indulgent with you during the last part-session. i would therefore like to say quite frankly to you today that i would have liked to have heard your speech sooner, and i think it was very good. if you really mean what you just said, you might still be my hero someday. you weren't before, but i'd be willing to change that. so far, the only person i've been willing to give this job to is david byrne. what are we talking about today, mr. prodi? you have made it clear: we are talking about the safety of citizens, health, consumer protection in the european union. let me address three points which you also partially addressed in your speech. first, the precautionary principle, what we call the precautionary principle. it must be the major objective of the policy of the european union and of all its institutions. i will give you an example, mr prodi, which i am sure you will understand very well: for the union this principle must be as important and given as high a priority as, for example, the criterion of price stability for the european central bank. do you understand ? i hope so, mr prodi. the member states have not understood this. the council has not yet understood this. it is also your duty to spread this message. you can be sure that we will do what we have to do in this matter. the council and the member states are still light years away from such an attitude. therefore, work with us in this area! secondly, what does the precautionary principle mean? this means filling the gaps that still exist in the legislation. that is why you referred to a white paper proposed by david byrne during his hearing before the european parliament, for which we are grateful to him. what 's in that white paper ? he must be very ambitious, mr. prodi. i shall mention very briefly some of the tasks which will have to be the essential points and components of this white paper. first, the safeguard clauses in the food sector. at present the european commission cannot issue any safeguard clauses in the food sector. it is only in the veterinary field that it is allowed, and that is a shortcoming. let us take the area of controls: as far as controls in third countries are concerned, for example, we cannot control any fruit or vegetables. it's a loophole! take the famous early warning system. it needs to be improved. you brought it up, and i'm grateful. but i'll also tell you how to improve it. it must be made transparent. at present, member states keep the commission informed in strict confidence. this means that you, mr prodi, and you, mr byrne, do not even have the right to inform the citizens of the dangers that threaten them. that has to change. it's not transparency that you and i are arresting, it's not informing public opinion. it is necessary to be able to improve the controls on controls in the member states. the dublin control agency must be able to carry out checks in the member states as soon as it has suspicions and must also have investigative powers. we need legislation on animal feed. you mentioned it; i repeat: we need a positive list and a checklist in the field of animal feed. we don't have all that. we need the obligation to declare - my colleagues graefe zu baringdorf, böge and i have been demanding this since the bse scandal. all this, mr prodi, must be done within the commission by the end of 1999. it is on this scale that i will judge your willingness to achieve your ambitious goals. you have until the end of this year to finish this white paper. we will then have time to look at this document in the year 2000 - that is the duty of the european parliament. we need to change and improve the control, the surveillance system. we found that it doesn't work. i am continuing to call for a dioxin register, for example, as i have already done on a number of occasions in this house. we need such a register which also includes other sources of dioxin such as waste incineration plants, for example, and other areas. in this connection, you will note the close link between environmental policy and consumer protection, and vice versa. we can't separate them. they are of existential importance to each other. how can we explain, for example, mr prodi, that fish intended for human consumption may contain more dioxin than meat? that's one thing you need to change. the reports on residues, which the member states have been sending to the commission in the past, must be subject to better and faster control. how is it that more action has not been taken on antibiotics, mr prodi? we have known for months that certain antibiotics in animal feed have been producing resistance in humans. i therefore urge you to do something about this before the end of the year. mr florenz referred to the issue of pesticides: we regularly receive information on the health and environmental hazards of obsolete pesticides which have no scientific basis. we need a compliance regulation. now, mr prodi, i come to the subject which is dear to both of us. that's the third point i want to address - your "agency". i put it in quotes, regardless of how the interpreters will translate those quotes. what do we want, mr prodi, what do you and i want? we want the best scientific expertise, we want transparency, we want compliance and security for the citizens of the european union. is that so, mr prodi? i'll tell you, for the most part, it is. during the bse scandal, we made sure that the scientific committees of the european union were restructured, that the system for calling scientists was open, that their background and financial interests were known, that agendas, minutes and also minority opinions were published on the internet. that's what i want. a high level of transparency. i do not want what i fear you do. i don't want the industrial sector to influence me. you took the example of the london medical agency. in order to obtain some equity, it is tasked with registering biotechnological medicines. if you force an agency to do that, it will also be obliged to do so by industry. this is not the right way, mr prodi, and i hope you will realise that very soon. as regards your proposals, we must be very clear that we want scientific expertise but also controls. if the commission today, mr prodi, finds that there is a problem in the plant health field, it must be able to invite scientists to produce rapidly an expert report which i would like to be able to check. that's why there has to be a subordinate office, a subordinate authority - whatever it is. i do not care whether we establish it under your direct control, mr president, or under the auspices of the joint research centre which we have in this union or elsewhere. what i care about is control and transparency. in conclusion, mr prodi, i will say again, and i will have finished with this part of my speech, that if we want to be sure - as you said - of regaining the confidence of the citizens, we must be democratic. i assume that your proposal for the creation of an agency will be put to parliament. you said you hadn't made a decision yet. i can only say that it's a happy one for you. that is for this house to decide. if you do not decide this in the commission, you will most certainly come up with a good solution. thank you for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, the ever-intensifying struggle to achieve the lowest agricultural prices has caused great damage to food production in the european community. many farmers who used good farming methods had to stop their farming. the costs have not even been determined yet. the massive industrial contamination of feedingstuffs by additives introduced without any respect for a maximum permitted value gives the consumer the justified impression that the production of fodder is based on the recycling of feedingstuffs. the disposal of sludge and sewage sludge may be a problem, but the safety of feed additives must be given a higher political priority than has been the case so far. i hope that the commission will specify the traceability of feedingstuffs and will put in place legal provisions to punish criminal practices and reward active farmers when a food agency is set up. but it has to happen quickly.
- (de) mr president, mr president of the commission, we agree that the eu cannot continue to be synonymous with disgusting and poisoned food. but a food agency is not yet enough to create security and a white paper cannot be used to postpone decisions which should have been taken long ago. a reorientation of food policy is necessary. in the past the commission has been too much the spokesman for industry and too often has trampled on the precautionary principle. you were talking about labeling the field to the table. all right, but what about the labelling of animal feed? what about the labelling requirement for genetically modified additives? you know the flaws in the novel food rule. where is the novel feed regulation, a regulation on genetically modified fodder? where's the label for food that hasn't been genetically engineered? we do not need a "white paper" on this matter, but a quick decision. the commission gave us the assurance two years ago that we should have had a regulation for a long time. i expect you to give us a clear timetable and to tell us clearly when these legal decisions will be taken. we also need more threshold values in the field of pcbs. the u.s. environmental protection agency has told us that there are more toxic pcbs out there. clearer obligations and prohibitions are needed. we cannot hope for greater safety in the field of antibiotics when at the same time the commission authorizes the use of antibiotics in additives. as has already been said, we also need a positive list in the field of pesticides. let me add one thing: it is irresponsible to consider that industry itself bears responsibility for safety and to shift responsibility for the environment and risk prevention onto the greek calends. as a european parliament, and i am addressing the large groups, we must...
- my dear colleague, a minute and thirty seconds is a minute and thirty seconds and not two minutes. if you wish to speak for two minutes, please arrange with your group to have two minutes of speaking time. otherwise, we will get tangled up and will not be able to keep our schedule. i'm asking for more understanding.
- madam president, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that a parliament in which so many women work cannot be called a eunuch, by force of circumstances.
- (de) mr president, mr president of the commission, conventional agricultural production uses more and more chemicals, additives, supplements, antibiotics, hormones - i could go on - and our agri-food industry is more like a chemical factory than a food production plant. in this situation, end-of-chain controls and the setting of maximum values are no longer sufficient. it is a question of achieving control of the process. it is interesting to note that the control of the process is provided for in the organic farming regulation. we have therefore control of the process in a relatively harmless production: this is quite justified and i support this approach. however, this control does not exist in other areas. this kind of end-of-chain control really invites criminal activity when cutting is used, which has led - it must be assumed - to the systematic mixing of toxic substances in the animal feed sector. that has to change. the second point i would like to make is the need to restore the proximity between producer and consumer: we must put an end to anonymity. let me tell you, if i allowed myself to do on my farm what some industrial and agro-food facilities allow themselves to do, people wouldn't come back, or at least arm themselves with a stick to correct me. i'd be out of my clientele. we must restore this closeness and consumer responsibility for their own actions.
(de) mr president, commissioner prodi, consumers are getting older and are living longer and healthier. yet food security remains a top priority. in this respect, producers and consumers are on the same page, because producers are themselves consumers. we sometimes forget that in this debate. in the long term, however, the losses in sales in the livestock and meat sectors are unacceptable. in germany, which is known as the country of the unconditional exploitation of slaughterhouse waste and animal carcasses, the debate on animal meal has now turned into a macabre media spectacle. the unpalatable images and headlines of factory farms and the cycle of disgust are increasingly putting farming and meat production out of the picture. and the fact that in some countries sewage sludge is being labelled as biomass and used to enrich animal meal production is keeping the last customers away from the butchery. the legislation on animal feed is being misrepresented. so i'm calling on you, and on all of us, to get out of this mud. that should be our motto. in future, should the consumer be convinced that animals for breeding are reduced to the status of intermediate steps in the production of questionable foodstuffs? should the consumer continue to think that the eu is wasting agricultural land - that is, giving up cereal production - but burning animal carcasses and feeding others with animal meal? i cannot imagine that in our day and age, which is so rich in innovation, we cannot switch to new and different methods of disposing of waste. it is clear that our peasants do not want this policy. should the consumer continue to support this practice voluntarily by eating meat? he won 't; simply put, for ethical, moral and emotional reasons. the abolition of animal flour will benefit both the producer and the consumer. the voluntary abandonment of these products is already being shown very positively in the advertising for meat. i would like to say one more thing: i don't think food is superfluous. at present, they are already partly sold under the heading 'production costs'. this is also damaging to european agriculture. mr prodi, it is unacceptable to continue to deceive consumers, as is the case with the dioxin scandal. we need a very clear information policy in all the member states. we must put an end to this cover-up. you have my full support when you say that we need comprehensive labelling, which should include all the information that is of interest to the consumer. but we also need a reasonable price that will allow producers and consumers to find their way there.
(de) mr president, commissioner prodi, ladies and gentlemen, the food crises and, more recently, the dioxin crisis have triggered a wave of insecurity and even panic throughout europe. how safe is our food? who 's to say ? who's watching it? the internal market has abolished frontiers and border controls, and we are happy and proud of that. free trade - a people's europe europe must now also guarantee food security. that is what people in our constituencies tell us and that is precisely what we are trying to do in consumer protection. i would remind you of the directive on product liability which was discussed a few months ago and which caused quite a stir in this house. the crisis that has arisen from the discovery of dioxin in eggs and meat shows that directives and regulations are not enough. already, the vox populi tells us that trust is good, but control is better. europe must take its responsibilities in this area, which means that we certainly need a very clear definition first of all: this is healthy, this is not; this is harmful, this is harmless. we need clear and uniform european standards, mr president of the commission. for us in germany, sewage sludge is waste and as such has no place in animal feed. forage is at the beginning of the food chain and it must be as safe as the food itself. healthy forage gives healthy animals and logically, healthy animals provide healthy meat. this is the capital of the peasants. farmers must be able to rely on the producers of fodder. farmers cannot control the ingredients themselves. first of all, they cannot check whether the products contain ingredients that cannot be found in them because they are not, of course, labelled. in this respect, producers are responsible for the product and they must also be responsible for the damage suffered by the farmers. what has happened is not permitted by any animal feeding regulations and consumers have been misled. mr prodi, we are limiting cereal production in europe to avoid overcapacity. harmful substances are added to the feed to reduce costs. no one else can conceive of it. the problem is certainly the low price. for example, when a farmer can only expect to get 1.25 euros per kilo of pigmeat, everyone wonders how he can cover his production costs. the fodder must therefore be cheap. the loop is closed by asking the consumer: are we also willing to spend more on our food? food must also have a price. we have to be willing to spend more. explanation and information can help to improve and enhance the relationship of citizens to their food. but first, responsibility for security must be determined if trust is to be built.
(de) mr president, i asked my group to give me the opportunity to clarify certain points of this debate at the end of it. let me stress, mr prodi, that what you have mentioned - and which has also been made clear in certain speeches - is something you must bear in mind. we need three things: we need good legislation and we need it fast. to that end, there is one thing you must do, mr prodi: you must put your house in order. it is unacceptable that responsibilities are spread over different directorates-general and that no sound and reasonable legislation is put in place. it is unacceptable that dg iii is responsible for processed food, medicines and genetically modified organisms, that dg xxiv is in fact also responsible to some extent and that, in addition, dg vi and dg xi are also responsible. this is not right and i ask you, mr prodi, to solve this problem in a rational way. legislative competence is vested in the directorate-general where it should be, namely the one responsible for consumer protection and health policy. secondly, we established during this debate that we needed good scientific expertise. many of our colleagues referred to this and said that we needed an independent expert with a high level of competence. i repeat: this expertise cannot be influenced by the member states or the interests of industry, mr prodi, and it cannot have any regulatory powers whatsoever. the european parliament has exclusive regulatory competence and, in a few exceptional cases provided for by the comitology procedure, the commission. and that's all there is to it! we must agree on that. let us now move on to the control, mr prodi. when we have all this, when we have sound, good, reasonable and comprehensive legislation and quality scientific expertise, we will need controls. i would ask you to make it clear to the member states that the control will not be free of cost. in recent years, member states have neglected their responsibility to monitor the application of legislation and production. they never really told us how many inspectors were checking what, when and where in the member states. but they have an obligation to do so and it is your responsibility, mr prodi, to convey this unpleasant news to the member states. if the member states then do what they should have done a long time ago, namely to check that food fulfils its purpose of keeping us alive and not poisoning us, we still have a supervisory authority within the commission. we have the control office, the food and veterinary office, which is subordinate to mr byrne's services and has its headquarters in dublin. we have just decided in the committee on budgets that this service should be given a larger number of posts in order to be able to carry out its control duties. please, mr prodi, ensure that the dublin office can intervene in the member states without prior authorization, that it has investigative powers and that it can carry out its monitoring duties, namely to monitor the checks carried out in the member states. if we get satisfaction on these three points, if we develop reasonable legislation, if we have high-level scientific expertise and if the controls are carried out properly, then we will be on the right side of the slope. we will then have a system unparalleled anywhere in the world. we can then also go to the wto negotiations in seattle and say: 'everything is on the table: we are not protecting, we are offering a healthy way of life to our fellow citizens and that is what we wish for you in the united states and in the developing countries. we want to cooperate in this area". we have the whole job of sweeping up our own back yard and we have already done it properly. it's probably not perfect; we will make sure that it does. we must therefore make this very clear outside the european union in the millennium round negotiations. so i think we can tell our fellow citizens that there is of course never an absolute guarantee in life but that we are offering them the highest possible degree currently allowed by human judgment and scientific expertise in safety, well-being and health. if you carry that banner, mr prodi, we will be a successful commission president.
- (de) madam president, listening to certain speeches, one might have the impression that all food is filthy and dirty, that all food is dangerous. of course, that's just as wrong as saying that everything is fine. that's what they say. it took the dioxin crisis to overcome the shortcomings identified by the commission and the member states during the bse crisis. the positive list, the question of public declaration, and, as part of that, the question of how we will have to deal with the problem of animal flour in the future in order to have an effective recycling system, are among them. in this respect, it is of course strange that the member states - but also the commission - are considering postponing the identification of bovine animals and the labelling of meat beyond 1 january 2000. it's impossible to explain this to anyone outside this room. we need to be clear about how things are going to play out. mr prodi, it goes without saying that we cannot use an agency as a political slogan and we cannot accept an inflation of agencies because the time would come when we would no longer need the commission. (applause) i would like to thank you cannot create agencies in areas where problems may arise in order to relieve yourself of some of the responsibility and say in areas where it is possible to exercise its power, as in antitrust legislation for example: the commission will take care of it. that's not consistent. that is why discussions remain essential in this area. i think we need an early warning system and the commission must have the right to intervene more quickly with the member states than it has so far. the commission has also proposed a framework directive on foodstuffs which is legible, practical and verifiable in order to protect consumers. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot take this problem seriously enough. aids threatens to become a health catastrophe of unprecedented proportions, especially in sub-saharan africa. children are the most affected. according to the estimates of unaids and who, 70% of new hiv infections occur in this region; for children under 15, it's even up to 90 percent. about 83% of aids deaths are in this region; at least 95% of aids orphans are young africans from these regions. of the 34 million people infected in this part of africa since the plague began, 11.5 million have already died, a quarter of them children. in doing so, all the successes achieved in the meantime in increasing life expectancy have been nullified - as has been reported. in some countries, life expectancy has even fallen back to the 1960s. in other words, a child born today in an african country heavily affected by aids has an average life expectancy of only 43 years - what would be 60 years without aids. the situation is particularly serious in east and southern africa. in botswana, namibia, swaziland, and zimbabwe, one fifth of the adult population is infected with the virus or has the disease. we could go on for hours with this appalling account. however, aids is not a fatality. a few countries, such as senegal, tanzania and uganda, have made early efforts to prevent the spread of the disease, with some success. it is high time to sound the health alarm throughout sub-saharan africa and in other parts of the world affected by the phenomenon. there should be no social, political or religious taboos in this area. we must get rid of them, no matter where they are or who is responsible. taboo and minimization will lead directly to disaster. the creation of a partnership against aids in africa at the lusaka conference deserves the european union's resolute support, both in substance and in terms of material. representatives of governments, international aid agencies, non-governmental organisations of various kinds and civil society, as well as the private sector, came together to declare war on this scourge. they have committed themselves to implementing comprehensive programmes for aids - or rather, against aids - in all african states. one of the ambitious targets is to reduce the number of newly infected young people aged 15-24 in the most affected countries by 25% by 2005 and in all countries by 2010. this undertaking can and must be accompanied by the european union and receive resolute support through acp cooperation. the european union has certainly not been inactive so far. between 1987 and 1997, some ecu 200 million or eur 200 million was allocated to more than 90 developing countries for hiv/aids programmes. this must be emphasized. in addition, there is a specific budget line for developing countries on the various continents for the next three years, a five-year regional programme with a budget of eur 20 million for acp countries and additional funds for pilot programmes, including for acp countries, including co-financing of non-governmental organisations and a research programme. in africa, for example, young girls are more at risk than in europe. nowhere else are there more teenage mothers, nowhere else are they giving birth to so many infected children. that is why information must be directed mainly to young people. this is a task that must be done in schools. training and advertising campaigns for condoms in tanzania and uganda have shown that this is effective. the radio must be used as a means of information which is accessible everywhere. here too, practical support measures are essential. the way forward is through joint efforts in the framework of a partnership. but to be effective, it is necessary to increase the resources invested, not to reduce them. and in this respect i am concerned about the financial policy of the commission but also of this house. i hope that your group will help to reverse the decisions taken by the committee on budgets, of which i was a member, or to amend them in the plenary by abandoning the cuts made to the proposals tabled by the committee on development. we must all work together to ensure that we can finance what we want to undertake.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the granting of macro-economic aid to the three countries which, outside the combat zone, have suffered enormously from the kosovo war is justified and very important. each of you will ask yourself if there is still any doubt about this. nevertheless, there is an urgent need to support the sustainable and effective development of these countries. on behalf of my group, i want to make it clear that we must do everything possible to ensure that bulgaria and romania are not left out of the process of enlargement of the european union. these countries, as well as their neighbour macedonia, need our political and economic support most urgently. in this connection, i would like to recall that this parliament has on several occasions decided to finally lift the visa requirement for romania and bulgaria and thus put an end to this discrimination. it is urgent that the council and the commission take a position on this matter at the helsinki summit. on the question of financial assistance, the commission and the council are still extolling their largesse by insisting on the impressive figures for macroeconomic aid. but have you ever wondered how effective such aid has been in balancing the social and economic development of those countries which have been really shaken by the crisis? who is the money for, and in whose pockets does it actually end up? the truth is that not a single euro is going to the people of this region, whether it is small and mediumsized enterprises, the education system or the health system, and that no jobs are being created through this. nor does it contribute to local and regional infrastructure, the reconstruction of which is a condition for any investment. no, it's nothing more than bribes to international banking systems. this compensates for the debt spiral into which the imf has plunged these countries. this aid goes almost directly into the coffers of international banks and thus contributes to increasing the debt of the so-called beneficiary countries. it is only a loan, even if the conditions are better than those of the imf. the conditions are, however, the following: savings in the health care sector and in the social security and pension system. the result: further impoverishment of large sections of the population in these countries. is this the stability we are looking for? can the stability of this region be based on the increase in debt and poverty? in practice, the so-called macroeconomic aid only helps to meet the budgetary conditions set by the imf. so it's about getting into debt to pay off the debt. this means that we must change the direction of the aid structure, that we must take back the political reins in this area and that we must take responsibility for a stable and balanced development between the economic and the social aspects.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, the altener programme is part of the multiannual action programme in the field of energy for the period 1998-2002 and deals with the essential chapter on alternative renewable energies. the commission's proposal dates from november 1997. as early as march 1999, the former parliament had delivered its opinion at first reading following the report by our former colleague, mr carlos robles piquer. with the entry into force of the amsterdam treaty, the legal basis has changed: the multiannual energy programme is now subject to the co-decision procedure. following this change in the legal basis, the european commission proceeded, immediately after the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam on 21 may 1999, to the amendment and fundamental revision of its proposal on the basis of the decisions taken by parliament on 11 march 1999. the council adopted the common position on 28 june. parliament can now see that both the commission and the council have largely taken up its proposals and i would therefore like to thank them for this constructive collaboration as rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. the second reading will now be the time for parliament to consider whether the common position still requires improvements. the industry committee issued a unanimous recommendation in this regard on 22 september. the parliament and the commission have a common objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in the community's gross energy consumption to 12% by 2010. that's about twice the current rate. it is an ambitious goal that requires enormous efforts. the compromises which have now been found are only a step in that direction. parliament considered that it was essential that member states in particular should redouble their efforts. the funds allocated to the altener programme are so modest that they will not allow this ambitious objective to be achieved. our amendments - there are nine in all - require member states to make a voluntary commitment to promote renewable energy. a charter should address the fact that no chapter of the treaty on european union is specifically devoted to energy policy. in addition, in article 1 (1), parliament expresses its willingness to implement the campaign for renewable energy sources already called for in the 1997 white paper and to create new instruments and mechanisms to promote the accelerated and coordinated market penetration of all sustainable energy technologies. moreover, the central and eastern european states and, as the liberal group has rightly requested, the mediterranean states must play a significant role in this implementation. parliament would like to insert in article 5 of the altener programme a remark on the new procedure for the exercise of implementing powers in order to improve the involvement of the european parliament. we are convinced that part iv of the multiannual action programme on energy cannot meet all the requirements. i would like to remind you of the second report we have today, mrs ahern's report on energy efficiency. however, i would also point out that the introduction of alternative energy sources confronts us with two important issues: hydropower and wind energy, whose coverage is proportionately as large as the others (e.g. solar energy or the use of biomass), must be encouraged in an extremely intensive way. i am delighted and pleased that you now have responsibility for this important subject, commissioner, because as a former spanish minister of agriculture you know that in agricultural policy it is probably more appropriate to reduce surpluses than to devote useful land to the energy exploitation of biomass. i know, however, that there is still relatively great resistance in this area, and that it comes from industry but also from agricultural policy, but we should nevertheless join our efforts in order to link agricultural policy and energy policy in the field of renewable energies. i would like to congratulate you on the good cooperation we have had and i hope that this report will receive a majority in this parliament.
(de) mr president, i should first like to thank mr langen for the very good report he has presented to us. the commission has decided by the greatest possible majority, that is to say unanimously, to follow the proposal to take up important amendments which had not been taken up by the council at first reading, even though we were very pleased - and i say this in this house too, mr langen - with the important step which had nevertheless been taken in the direction of parliament. the european union has set itself the objective of doubling the share of renewable energy in consumption by 2010. parliament and the commission already agreed on this during the debates on the green and white papers. the council also supported this position in the common position which has been submitted to us. although it is clear that the available energy potential of wind and solar energy, biomass, hydropower and biothermal energy would make it possible to reach 12% of consumption by 2010, we know that reaching this 12% will require considerable efforts if we take into account the rates of increase observed in the past. this means that the member states must do their duty and also that the union must make more progress than has been the case so far. this requires first and foremost equitable access to the electricity grid for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. commissioner, parliament is awaiting proposals which will help to bring these forms of energy to the market. we can see the close correlation between grid access conditions and the growth of the share of renewables in electricity generation by looking at the higher than average growth rates in denmark, germany and also spain. today, however, we are talking about the altener programme. it is the only eu programme whose sole objective is the promotion of renewable energy sources. this programme is also the essential instrument for the implementation of the community strategy for renewable energy sources and therefore also for the campaign to promote renewable energy sources. through this campaign we want to initiate photovoltaic systems with a peak power of 1 million kilowatts within the union and in developing countries. the project would involve the installation of 15 million m2 of solar collectors and the generation of 10 000 megawatts from wind energy and 10 000 megawatts from biomass. this campaign must be financed with the help of member states' funds, private funds and also european funds. the commission had planned to allocate eur 81.1 million to the altener programme for the period 1998-2002. the commission estimates that the promotion campaign alone will require public funding of some eur 7 billion by 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we know that this 81.1 million euro would be a drop in the bucket. but we cannot accept that this sum should be reduced to 74 million, as the common position provides. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the unanimously adopted position of the committee in the vote tomorrow and also to ensure that the appropriate decisions are taken in the votes on the budget.
(de) mr president, mr langen, i have great respect for your excellent report. the use of renewable energy sources is a perfect example of developing and applying the most modern technologies while at the same time helping to preserve the environment; but there's a second aspect. if we look at the firms in europe which are particularly active in this field, we can see that they are mainly small and mediumsized enterprises. this of course also means that since these small and mediumsized enterprises have made a considerable contribution to our employment policy by maintaining jobs, we must continue to support them. unlike the major energy companies, which have made redundancies, this means that by launching this programme, by encouraging alternative energy sources, we as europeans are also contributing to the value of employment policy. at the same time, it must of course be said that this programme has a special aspect in the light of the enlargement of the european union to the east. it is also, of course, a question of providing these countries with renewable and environmentally friendly energy production in order to promote environmental protection and also - it must be said in all honesty - to open up new markets. in this respect, it goes without saying that the altener programme is not adequately funded. the aim is to increase this and to involve the european council more in the export of renewable energies in order to pool expertise and ensure their rapid and effective implementation.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that i have spoken in a plenary session of this house. i am therefore particularly pleased to be able to speak about south africa, a country whose developments i have followed with anxiety and hope and, for some time now, with confidence since my first visit there in 1981. finally, we can establish special economic and political relations with the african country whose stability is in our interest as much as in that of its neighbours south of the equator. the agreement we are discussing should serve both partners. by having a special relationship with south africa, we are supporting economic development there and at the same time strengthening the potential of south africa to send positive impulses throughout the region. on the political level, we are also honouring the result of a process of reform which, unfortunately, has not always been peaceful over the years. many may recall the images of police and military violence and the excesses that occurred between the different black communities. the first high point of this process of democratization was the first democratic elections held in 1994 for all south africans, which was a visible expression of the liberation not only of the oppressed majority of the population but also, in my view, of the liberation of the privileged from the old system; the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today, to the people of europe in the future, to the people of europe in the future. this political and moral isolation, combined with economic sanctions and the ever-increasing cost of maintaining order, eventually led to economic stagnation and the political recognition that it could not continue. i am also convinced, however, that an event in europe was the decisive factor in convincing the de klerk government, which took office at the end of 1989, to have the courage to undertake a radical change in the system and in so doing to dissolve itself. the fall of the berlin wall, the last visible expression of the end of a system in the name of which freedom and democracy had not been defended in southern africa either, has freed white south africans from the subjective impression that they would find themselves, in the event of democratic elections respecting the principle of one man, one vote, eleven a vote, faced with a one-party system and a state economy cut off by expropriations. thus a vital argument, or rather a pretext, justifying opposition to the liberation movement was lost. now the south african minister of economy - though a member of the communist party - is pursuing a liberal policy. with this agreement we want to encourage this policy of trade liberalization and economic restructuring. another essential element of the agreement is the commitment of the contracting parties to uphold democratic principles, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. to encourage this trend, the european parliament must also make use of all the opportunities available to it in the regular political dialogue established by this agreement and in so doing offer the greatest possible support to south africa in its efforts to achieve stability. in recent years the epp group has repeatedly expressed its support for continued cooperation with the republic of south africa. on behalf of my group, i therefore expressly welcome this agreement between the european union and south africa and congratulate mrs kinnock on her excellent report, which we support. during the five years of these negotiations, the european parliament, and my group in particular, has been calling for the agreement to be concluded quickly and to enter into force soon. in addition, there is unanimity on this issue in the south african parliament as well. the agreement as it stands, i think, on the whole, represents a satisfactory balance of interests for all. on the one hand, it is certain that the 24 negotiating sessions were partly useless and that they were dragged out by sectoral or national interests. the rapporteur has pointed this out. on the other hand, it has also brought views closer together and mutual understanding on such thorny issues as the agreement on wines and spirits or the problem of certain agricultural products. the asymmetric trade agreement provides, among other things, for the opening of european markets to 95% of south african exports within ten years. in this connection, i would like to emphasize in particular the fact that for the first time the european union has included the agricultural sector in an agreement. within the framework of the present possibilities, that is to say the logic of the present system of subsidies, appreciable results have been achieved. in the field of spirits, for example, it was obviously very difficult for south africans to accept that they would no longer be able to call their sherry and port "sherry" and "port" within 12 years, even in their own country. in august i tried to console my south african interlocutors by pointing out that we germans were not allowed to use the name 'champagne' to sell our sekt, but that it was selling well abroad, simply because it was good. the council was not able to resolve to accept this agreement as a community agreement. in its present form of a joint agreement, it can only enter into force after ratification by all the member states. even though a large number of trade agreements will be provisionally applied from the beginning of the year 2000, i still hope that the ratification process will not be too long. by its rapid vote, the european parliament is sending a signal that it intends to act without delay. let this serve as an example to national parliaments and as a sign of our sympathy for the new south africa, which deserves our full support on its difficult path. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr president, mr president-in-office, i would first of all like to assure you that i support the conclusion underlying your question, namely that a positive democratic development has taken place in slovakia and that it is our duty to support and stabilise this situation. as soon as the dzurinda government took office at the end of october 1998, the commission set up, on the initiative of my predecessor, a high-level bilateral working group to give the necessary impetus to the accession negotiations with slovakia. the initiative was seen as a special sign of support for democratic renewal in slovakia. to see this, consider that no such institution exists today with any other country. after five meetings, this group ended its successful activities in september. the positive effects are particularly marked on the copenhagen criteria, but i must add that the conclusions of this group do not prejudge those of the forthcoming regular report on slovakia. the commission will give due consideration to this encouraging development in its current regular report. the commission will adopt this report on developments in slovakia at the same time as the other regular reports on 13 october, i.e. as early as next week. the commission is particularly supportive of non-governmental organisations in slovakia, which are essential for the development of a well-functioning civil society. in the 1999 phare programme for slovakia, eur 2.5 million was made available to the slovak foundation for the development of civil society, which was set up at the initiative of the commission. the foundation will distribute the funds to some 100 non-governmental organizations active in the fields of human rights, environmental protection, social prevention, etc. i would also like to point out that with almost eur 70 million for 1999, the funds allocated to slovakia under the phare programme have reached their highest volume. we have also set up an exceptional fund for projects in favour of national minorities, in particular the roma. the fund has a budget of eur 2 million.
- (de) mr commissioner, i thank you for your excellent reply and i am delighted that you are here for the first time in your new role. i would like to ask two questions: firstly, is there also closer cooperation with slovak universities, especially in terms of the exchange of scientists and students? it is, however, the extension of our programmes to the associated countries; we have the additional protocols. secondly, i would like to ask you whether you think it is possible that slovakia should be among the countries with which we will have to negotiate in helsinki.
counsel. - (fi) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey is a key partner for the european union in economic, social and cultural terms. turkey has also played and will continue to play an important role in maintaining peace and stability on our continent. this is what the recent events in the balkans have once again demonstrated. it is clear that the european union and turkey need each other. the importance of cooperation has been further enhanced by the entry into force of the customs union four years ago. in our view, the customs union has benefited both sides. last year, exports from the european union to turkey accounted for more than half of turkey's total imports and turkish exports to the european union in the same year accounted for about half of turkey's total exports. in this connection, it should be noted, however, that the financial and institutional cooperation decided upon at the time of the conclusion of the customs union did not take place as planned. in accordance with the decisions taken in 1997 in luxembourg and in 1998 in cardiff, turkey is participating in the enlargement process. turkey has its own strategy for preparing for membership, the so-called 'european strategy'. this strategy includes deepening cooperation in various sectors as well as financial cooperation. the finnish presidency is working to promote the implementation of the european strategy. the two proposals for regulations on financial cooperation in the european strategy are currently being examined by the european parliament. without funding, the full implementation of the strategy is extremely difficult. the finnish presidency calls on parliament to ensure that the regulations concerned are examined in a positive manner and as quickly as possible. as we all know, turkey was struck by a tragic earthquake in august. the immense damage and material damage caused to turkey by the earthquake only reinforces the importance of the implementation of the funding. the european union is closely monitoring the democratic development of its partner. the human rights situation in turkey, including the rights of minorities, is seriously flawed. unfortunately, we hear too often about restrictions on freedom of expression, for example, which are not in line with our european values. we have, however, noted with satisfaction the recent steps taken by the turkish government to implement democratic reforms and improve the human rights situation. we also want to encourage turkey to continue on the path of reform. the osce conference in istanbul on 18 and 19 november will be an important opportunity for turkey to demonstrate its commitment to promoting universally accepted civil liberties. the european union is opposed to the death penalty everywhere and in all cases. the general abolition of the death penalty worldwide is a common objective of the european union. turkish legislation still allows for the death penalty and the execution of this penalty. however, no executions have been carried out in the country since 1984. we want turkey to suspend the execution of the death sentences already handed down, including that of mr öcalan, the leader of the pkk. we expect turkey to abolish the death penalty completely from its legislation and to continue its moratorium in the meantime. we also recall that the suspension of the death penalty is one of the common values of the european union, to which turkey has declared its wish to join. an encouraging development has recently begun to emerge in relations between turkey and greece. we greatly appreciate greece's contribution to this development and we regard the dialogue between the two countries as extremely positive. it was touching to see the genuine expressions of sympathy and solidarity after the earthquakes in turkey and greece. we hope that the positive climate which has developed in recent times can be a step towards a more lasting improvement in relations between the two countries. increased cooperation increases trust, which in turn contributes to strengthening stability in the western mediterranean and in europe as a whole. it's in our mutual interest. although the dialogue i mentioned earlier is optimistic, there are still some difficult questions. the european union and the presidency fully support the efforts of the un to find a lasting and just solution to the situation in cyprus. we hope that progress will be made in solving this problem, which has lasted for too long, as early as this autumn. we are confident that turkey will do its part to help find a fair solution. on a visit to turkey two weeks ago, i heard that the damage caused by the august earthquake was the worst in europe since the second world war. turkey cannot cope with the demanding task of reconstruction on its own. there is no precise data yet on the cost of repairing the damage, with estimates ranging from us$3 billion to us$6.5 billion. the earthquake left 400,000 homeless, who are currently living in tent cities. with the arrival of winter, they will no longer be able to live in such conditions. the european union wishes to help turkey in its immense reconstruction work. we are confident of constructive cooperation from the european parliament in this important area as well. during its presidency, finland will do all it can to deepen turkey's integration into european structures. the exchange of letters between the previous presidency and the turkish prime minister, mr ecevit, provides a good basis for the presidency's efforts. in his letter, mr ecevit confirmed that turkey's accession efforts would be based on the copenhagen criteria. the member states of the european union are unanimous in their view of the importance of turkey as a cooperation partner and the need for closer cooperation. the european union and the member states in particular have stressed this on many occasions. only a few days ago, prime minister simitis and german chancellor schröder said that the european union would make a serious effort to achieve a positive result at the forthcoming helsinki summit. the key issue is the confirmation of turkey's candidate status. to achieve this, the european union as well as turkey will have to work actively and show goodwill. we are firmly convinced that bringing turkey closer to the european union is the best way to support the implementation of democratic reforms in the country. the isolationist approach in this case is not conducive to turkey's objectives, nor to those of the european union. in this work we absolutely need the support of the european parliament for concrete measures and general support for the development and rapprochement of relations between the european union and turkey.
the commission is particularly pleased that the european parliament is dealing with the subject of turkey today, shortly after the start of its work, in a detailed debate, because this is one of the most important political and strategic questions we have to solve in europe at the present time. today's discussions take place at a time when relations between the european union and turkey have the opportunity to take a new direction: exactly two months before the european council meeting in helsinki, which is expected to take important decisions on the whole enlargement process and, above all, on turkey. the council representative has just given us a political analysis of the present situation, which the commission can wholeheartedly endorse. i would like to make a few additional comments on this from the commission's point of view. since the european council meeting in luxembourg in december 1997, relations between the european union and turkey have deteriorated for reasons that are well known. as you are aware, turkey did not consider the european council's finding that it was eligible for membership to be sufficient. shortly after the european council in december 1997, the commission adopted the famous european strategy for preparing turkey for membership in all important areas. this european strategy was developed as a specific, tailor-made strategy for rapprochement, with the aim of extending and deepening the existing customs union. the commission's proposals received political backing at the cardiff summit in june 1998. since cardiff, several meetings have taken place to implement specific aspects of this strategy but the lack of appropriate funding has so far prevented any substantial progress, although i must add that the overall picture is not as bleak as it is sometimes presented. the customs union has been improved in some areas and exploratory talks on the possibility of a free trade agreement in the services sector have made good progress. commission experts have been to turkey to improve our general knowledge of turkish legislation in all the relevant areas. as regards financing, i would point out that by the end of the year turkey will receive eur 375 million under the meda i financing programme. we must, however, make further efforts to respect the agreements reached with turkey. the commission would like to encourage parliament to give its opinion as soon as possible on the draft regulations which are to support the european strategy. without this financial support, the credibility of the european strategy is threatened. this credibility is essential, however, and it is also essential to convince the turkish side that it must make an active contribution to the implementation of this strategy. if we really want to help turkey in its preparation for membership, as the luxembourg european council wanted when it initiated this european strategy, we must also show that we will make a significant contribution to achieving this objective. there is no doubt that the european parliament has a key role to play in this process. i should like to say how pleased i am that the commission reacted so quickly after the terrible earthquake which struck turkey on 17 august. the decision to release €30 million in emergency reconstruction aid was made possible by the quick response of the budgetary authorities. in addition, the european investment bank will provide medium-term loans of up to eur 600 million for reconstruction and macrofinancial assistance of up to eur 200 million to ensure that ongoing reforms are in line with the international monetary fund. but we have to look ahead. as has already been said, the european council in helsinki will again consider the question of the european union's relations with turkey. in this respect, i would like to make it very clear that all applicants for membership will be judged on the basis of the copenhagen criteria and that all will be on an equal footing in this respect. turkey does not meet the political part of these criteria. there are still gaps in democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities. the question is how to ensure that the necessary reforms are implemented in turkey and that it is firmly and irreversibly committed to becoming a strong member of the family of european democracies. i am firmly convinced that this process will only begin in turkey and will only be successful if the signal to europe is green for turkey. turkey has made some progress in recent times - although it is by no means sufficient - in the field of democratisation and human rights and i would point out that this is clearly reflected in the next regular report on turkey. this regular report will be discussed in the commission next week, day by day, and a decision will be taken on it. he points out that the system of emergency courts was changed in june this year and that the military judge was removed from the so-called state security court. it notes that several important legislative and administrative measures have been taken to put an end to human rights violations by state officials. we expect turkey to take another important step towards abolishing the death penalty once and for all. i would also like to emphasize the rapprochement between greece and turkey, which took place shortly after the earthquake, on various issues of mutual interest and which is a promising sign for the future. i sincerely hope that the confidence created by the détente between the two countries will enable them to approach the delicate issues of regional security in the same spirit as has prevailed in the discussions so far. as you know, turkey has opted for europe and is ready to assume the obligations arising from the treaty of amsterdam. i therefore believe that the european council should make clear at its next meeting in helsinki what place turkey can occupy in the european structure. i would like to inform you today of the proposal i will make to the commission next week to recommend to the helsinki council that turkey be treated as a candidate for membership, on the same basis and in the same capacity as all other candidates. this means that turkey must comply with the obligations arising from the copenhagen and madrid criteria. turkey still has a lot of work to do and substantial progress is needed in the political and economic fields but in the long run, given turkey's enormous strategic importance for the future of europe, for security, stability and peace in europe, to refuse it admission to the enlargement process on an equal footing with the other candidates would be a grave mistake. we should, together with turkey, use the time that remains between now and the helsinki summit to agree on a timetable for turkey. the timetable had already been mentioned in the exchange of letters between chancellor schröder and prime minister ecevit prior to the cologne summit. specific measures in the areas covered by the copenhagen criteria which could help turkey to meet these criteria in the medium or long term would be envisaged. it is clear that any initiative in this direction by turkey in the run-up to the helsinki summit will contribute to the chances of success of this european council meeting. i am convinced that this parliament will play a vital role in the forthcoming debate, particularly when the overall process of legal alignment, of screening, is started, if it is decided in helsinki to grant turkey the status of a candidate for accession. to avoid any misunderstanding, i should like to make the following point clear: we are not talking about opening accession negotiations with turkey, but about taking the first step. this step consists in giving turkey the status of candidate country in order to start the process and to have the possibility, in the foreseeable future, to be able to discuss the subject of the opening of negotiations.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the statements by the representative of the council presidency and the representative of the commission, it is certain that the helsinki council will take a decision to grant turkey the status of candidate country. i agree with mr verheugen that this is one of the key strategic issues affecting the future of the european union. we wonder, however, what has changed since the luxembourg summit in december 1997, when turkey was invited to a european conference and declined the invitation. let us remember the arguments put forward by turkey in 1997. she claimed that she was discriminated against by not being included in the membership process. i see mr poos, who was present at the time and belongs to another large group in this house. i say this very seriously: if we now grant turkey the status of candidate and start negotiations with all the central european states, as we can probably expect from helsinki, there will be discrimination again because turkey will be treated differently from the central european states. what shall we say to that ? my group was involved in the drafting of the compromise text. i must say, however, that we cannot accept this text as it stands - neither point d nor point 1 - because it gives the impression that turkey's accession to the european union would have a positive influence on the security, stability and development of the european union. we do not think it is fair to say that at this time. we also perceive contradictions in the resolution. when it is written in paragraph 2 that the copenhagen criteria - democracy, the rule of law, human rights, the question of minorities - must be respected, and then it is said in article 3 (3) that turkey is far from meeting these criteria, this must nevertheless be taken into account. we must not believe, on the basis of an illusory policy, that turkey is currently in a position to obtain the status of candidate country. i say this very seriously and without any polemic: i know how much the socialist group hated the question of customs union, whereas the epp, at the time, was always in favour of it. i do not say this to reproach you for your change of attitude and your desire to grant turkey candidate status. i say this because the epp has always wanted us to have the closest possible relations of partnership and, if possible, friendship with turkey, and this is of course still the case today. that is why we want to create a forum in which the european union and turkey could discuss all social issues. i would add that turkey has a natural european vocation. but if we grant it candidate status now, the question is what we will say to ukraine or russia tomorrow when we refuse them that status. that is why we say that the time is not right to grant this status to turkey. the first thing to do is to get the enlargement of the countries of central europe under way. only when we have successfully completed this process can we perhaps take the next step. but let us not put the plow before the oxen and above all let us strive to ensure that this european union, this great project of european unification, is an effective, democratic european union at the beginning of the 21st century. this must take precedence over all other considerations, because we want a peaceful and stable europe with a clear and fruitful partnership with turkey. however, the time has not yet come to take strategic decisions on turkey's accession to the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, on 6 september, in his speech celebrating the reopening of the turkish judiciary, the highest judge of the court of cassation, sami selçuk, strongly criticized the constitution of his country. he condemned the turkish basic law with the words: 'turkey is a country with a constitution but is not a constitutional state.' the constitution would protect the rights of the state at the expense of the liberties of the citizens. the judge added that "we need more democracy, more citizens able to exercise freedom of thought without being hindered by the law". it called for a broad democratic reform and a fundamental restructuring of the political system. he's right, you know. his requirements exceed our expectations. i am even convinced that the majority of this house is also in favour of a democratic turkey which respects human rights and the rights of minorities. i am also convinced that we are obliged to support democratic circles and their modest successes not only on a moral level but also because a democratic turkey capable of solving its internal problems will serve the interests of the internal security of the european union. we could use our policy to help the supporters of european democracy in turkey to succeed and to defeat the anti-european hawks. this means that for the time being we need a critical accompanying policy which will lead turkey to resolve the outstanding issues, such as the kurdish question, the cyprus question and the human rights problem, quickly and humanely. it cannot be a policy of excluding or isolating turkey. that is why - whatever the form of the timetable and the precise procedure - helsinki must send a signal to the turkish and kurdish citizens and to the supporters of democracy in turkey. there is an urgent need to include turkey - i cannot say anything more specific on behalf of my group because we are in the middle of a discussion - but for me this means, as mr verheugen has already said, the granting of candidate status for membership, not only for the democratization of that country but also for peace and stability in the balkans and south-east europe. yesterday, mr papandreou, the greek minister for foreign affairs, told the university of istanbul: 'we want turkey to be in the european union now!' there's nothing to add to that. i think he's made himself very clear.
- (de) mr president, i agree with all those who have said that the current changes in turkish policy are completely inadequate. as a member of the european parliament of kurdish origin, however, i am in favour of financial aid and economic cooperation and i also support turkey's desire to join the european union, provided that it meets the conditions set out in helsinki, which means that a political solution must be found to the cyprus question, the human rights question and the kurdish question, that the death penalty must be abolished and that a general amnesty for all prisoners be proclaimed. the kurdish identity must be recognized.
- (de) mr president, the president of the ppe group has expressed his sympathy for the difficulties my group had to face at the time of the decision on the customs union. i would like to return the sympathy for the light-heartedness of his group in radically changing its position since it approved the customs union. mr president, i listened carefully to what the president of the council and commissioner verheugen said about the possible decision to approve turkey's candidacy in helsinki. i would have welcomed that if it had been a genuine position of the european union towards turkey. but i fear that we are returning to a policy which has allowed us for years to stand behind the greeks and say that the greeks will never agree. now that the greeks have shown that they can agree on certain conditions, we really need to show our colors. we must ask ourselves in all conscience whether we want turkey to be part of the european union or not. we should not waste time in vain debates about whether he is a candidate for a candidacy or whether we should create a new category of candidates who are candidates but with whom we do not negotiate. my last point concerns a point on which figures of speech regularly play a role. we always talk about the kurdish question but never about the kurdish people. this is a people of 12 to 20 million people who cannot exercise their human rights or their fundamental rights anywhere, neither in turkey nor in other countries. we must commit ourselves to them.
- (de) mr president, the european parliament is called upon to make a fundamental, open and sincere assessment of the current and future policy towards turkey. turkey is and remains an important partner of europe. but we will not consolidate this partnership by opening up the prospect of membership now. we must move forward pragmatically on the road to an independent european policy towards turkey. we have said yes to the customs union. but the financial benefits of the customs union are being blocked in this house. i ask that the pragmatic steps taken be implemented as soon as possible. we need turkey as a reliable partner in a region bordering europe and geostrategically unstable. an autonomous policy towards turkey cannot, however, have as its objective the accession of turkey to the european union. in our view, mr verheugen, the prospect of accession that the helsinki summit is aiming to open up and that you have just described on behalf of the commission is clearly the wrong way to go. we strongly advocate an autonomous european policy towards turkey based on three pillars: a security partnership, close economic relations and a permanent dialogue on political, economic, cultural and democratic issues. turkey's accession to the european union would put the union itself under undue pressure and impose on turkey a radical political change which it cannot and, as far as i know, does not want to implement in the foreseeable future. for various reasons, the admission of turkey would therefore lead to a qualitative change in the european union and a forced halt to integration efforts. the ankara agreement is not a sufficient reason for this, because since the agreement with the eec, europe has demonstrated, through three amendments to the treaties - the single european act, the maastricht treaty and the amsterdam treaty - that it is ready and able to transfer other competences from the national to the european level and thus deepen europe. my group is therefore much more in favour of an autonomous policy towards turkey than of accession. for security, economic and political reasons, we want these high-level relations with turkey. but we also want to deepen europe, not empty it of its content by accessions we cannot bear.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that the idea regularly expressed in this chamber that turkey should meet certain conditions before becoming a member of the european union is wrong. let us even assume that the turks do indeed meet the criteria. we would not even be able to welcome turkey into the european union. this is the reality. we have a principle in this union, which is the socialist redistribution of wealth from the rich to the poor. we call it economic and social cohesion. if turkey were to become a member of the european union, it would of course also be entitled to respect for this principle. this would mean a total overload for the european union. what we have ahead of us is already a tower of strength of the first order; i am talking about the welcome of the poles, the czechs and the hungarians - and for my part, i think the sooner the better. we cannot accept turkey as a second country. and as for the identity that is regularly brought up here, i believe that if turkey is european, ukraine and russia should be admitted to the european union before it, which is impossible. but it is equally impossible to welcome turkey. let's get rid of that idea. let us not continue to entertain this illusion in the mind of turkey, for it is dishonest and inconsiderate. it is not we who will have to pay for all this but our children.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, mr president-in-office, i am glad to hear your statements that the peace process is moving forward. i would nevertheless point out that the current agreements are far removed from the wye agreement. i am disappointed by the repeated backsliding from the agreements reached. it is all the more welcome that the commission is taking the political initiative to support the gaza seaport, the west bank-gaza link and people to people projects. i believe that the working group on regional cooperation is important in moving forward the multilateral negotiations of the madrid process. the greens call on the council and the commission to take an initiative, particularly with regard to the disarmament process and the protection of the environment. we expect israel to allow a joint and equitable exploitation of resources with palestine, especially in the field of groundwater and drinking water. the peace process between israel and syria requires significant support from the eu. we cannot end up with a mutual blockade.
- (de) madam president, my remarks concern the same aspect of the problem. as most of our colleagues have clearly pointed out, paragraph 1 is really confusing and is in fact the most important paragraph. it reads: votes on parts one, two and three. the wording is confusing in that according to this sentence, "part one" and "part two" both refer to the first half of this long paragraph. the difference between voting on the first part and voting on the second part is that in one case the words to apply must be there and in the other not. if the words 'to apply' are not in the text, that of course totally changes the meaning of the paragraph because it means that turkey has the right to be a member of the union. if we continue to apply, we say that turkey has the right to apply for membership. for the sake of clarity, we should therefore say 'part one': those who vote for part one want to delete these two words. the one who says no to this "first part" wants the words to apply to be retained in the second part. i would therefore ask you, madam president, to read out the subject of each vote so that everyone knows what he is voting on.
(de) mr president, i should like to say first of all that i welcome this vote on the calendar, not because, like mr berthu, it follows an intergovernmental agreement, but because i am convinced that we will be able to maintain our working capacity only by making full use of the part-session week and not turning thursdays into fridays. secondly, i am glad of it because i believe that strasbourg is the autonomous, democratic and anti-centralist face of the european parliament and that it has a great european symbolic significance. as a european, i therefore welcome this vote and i would like to make it very clear that we must ensure that it is not now being misused in practice. i agree with mr martin; we need some time off. but we will not solve this problem by abolishing friday sittings but by structuring our group and committee work in such a way that we will be able to have working weeks without sittings, which one or the other of us can enjoy in one of the three workplaces but which the majority of us can use in their constituency.
- (de) mr president, i am very pleased that parliament is taking an active interest in macedonia, because it must be clear to everyone that at the moment macedonia is the european country most threatened by the instability of its neighbours, but also, on the other hand, a country which has made considerable progress in the peaceful resolution of minority problems and tensions with its neighbours. the country therefore needs massive support, because the new government has shown how, in the spirit of europe, stability can be ensured in one of the most dangerous regions on the planet. so: massive support for macedonia and its reformist government backed by both nations.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the european union is the most important topic of this parliamentary term. today we have discussed separately a resolution on turkey and voted on it. in the context of this enlargement process, i voted against this resolution. today, turkey is the world's largest producer of oil. tomorrow, another country maybe? that's a question we need to ask ourselves. i think it is important that this parliament should give serious thought to the image we have of the european union. how tall should it be? today turkey, tomorrow armenia, the day after tomorrow morocco... or is there another concept? i am therefore opposed to extending the enlargement process we have decided on to other countries, whatever they may be. secondly, the council will very likely include turkey in the circle of candidate countries at the helsinki summit. we have told the eleven applicant countries that candidate status is at the same time a promise of accession and if that were the case we would devalue that status by granting it to turkey and declaring that we would not start negotiations. this is detrimental to the process that has begun and i think it is unacceptable. i think that parliament has a duty to state clearly its concept of europe so that it can, in the long run, continue to describe itself as a political union.
- (de) mr president, i would like to ask our turkish partners not to think that all those who voted for this resolution are friends of turkey and those who voted against are enemies. i think it's the opposite. i would like to see more intensive cooperation with turkey immediately, the financial protocols unblocked, a close partnership implemented immediately rather than full membership, while those who voted for this resolution are only propagating the partially unrealizable goal of full membership in order to be able to use it to discourage and intimidate turkey. i therefore believe that we must be sincere and tell the turks that membership is an illusion but that everything else must be dealt with quickly in order to stabilise turkey and bring it closer to the european structures.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, everyone knows that the multilateral trading system has guaranteed stable economic growth for 50 years. one of the european union's key priorities in its external relations is the strengthening and stabilisation of the multilateral trading system. the new round of trade liberalization is the necessary and natural follow-up to the results achieved previously. the european union has been advocating a round of enlarged trade negotiations since 1996. despite the fact that many countries had doubts about the benefits and benefits of a new round, all wto members are now in favour of a new round of negotiations. opinions differ, however, as to the extent of this trick. one of the major challenges facing the european union is to convince developing countries and civil society of the benefits of an extended cycle. finland, as the eu's president-in-office, will endeavour to ensure that a final decision on the date, form and agenda of the future round of trade negotiations is taken at the wto ministerial meeting in seattle in november and december. the most extensive possible cycle will ensure a balanced final result which takes account of the interests of all. as is well known, on the basis of the decisions of the uruguay round, negotiations will continue at least as regards agriculture and services. this is called the build-in-agenda. if we fail to convince the other wto members of the advantages and benefits of a wider cycle, the risk is that the negotiations will focus precisely on agriculture, where the european union has important interests to defend. the european union also agrees that the final outcome of the cycle must be adopted as a whole and by all wto members. in other words, nothing will be decided until everything is decided. this does not, of course, prevent some sectors from achieving results more rapidly than others. it will also be necessary to ensure that the results obtained reflect the views of all wto members in an equitable manner. there is also consensus within the european union on the duration of the tour, which should be around three years. it should be borne in mind that the european union's objective of an enlarged cycle must take into account both the sectoral and intrinsic agenda of the united states and its line towards lowering customs duties, and the more reserved view of developing countries. the developing countries have in particular called for a review of the uruguay round agreements and for them to be amended in a way that is more favourable to them. what is of particular importance for the success of the european union's objectives is that developing countries are convinced of the benefits of an enlarged round of negotiations and of the european union's good intentions underlying these objectives. this means first of all that the european union should be able to tackle issues that are difficult for it, such as dumping and the textile sector. in other words, the european union must be open to proposals from other wto members. instead of promises, the industrialized countries must be able to offer developing countries tangible benefits. the european union was among the first to advocate an exemption from customs duties for almost all products from the least developed countries, at the latest by the end of the new round. we hope that other industrialised countries besides the european union and more advanced developing countries will accept this objective. i will now briefly review the most important issues that the european union proposes to put on the agenda of the next round of negotiations. as far as agriculture is concerned, it must be possible to practice it throughout europe, including in regions where it faces particular problems. agriculture must ensure the survival of the countryside, the protection of nature and the dynamism of the rural world. these are all parts of a whole which we use the term 'multifunctional'. the european union, a major food exporter, also attaches importance to improving market access and removing trade barriers in the new cycle. we are also not prepared to negotiate a reduction in aid, provided that the so-called 'peace clause' and the so-called 'special safeguard clause' are maintained. in addition, it must be able to respond to consumer concerns about food quality and safety, environmental protection and ensuring animal welfare. the union also supports an extended wto cycle in the field of services. we believe that no sector should be excluded from the negotiations. the basic principles of the european union in the negotiations are the improvement of service commitments and the extension of existing commitments both by sector and by country. the european union considers it important that the participation of developing countries in the negotiations be supported by the possibilities provided by service contracts. the union considers that a rules-based system is in everyone's interest, as it avoids unilateral intervention in the course of events. we are in favour of the new round of negotiations being used to set up new rules and agree on principles also in areas which are closely related to international trade. these include environmental, investment and competition issues. our aim is to reform and adapt the rules of the game of trade so that they meet the requirements of a global economy on the path to globalisation and integration. in the future, the wto rules will have to be formulated in such a way that they provide the opportunity to ensure environmental protection and fair treatment of foreign investment. at the same time, it will be necessary to ensure that the special conditions of developing countries are taken into account and that they are allowed to move forward flexibly in the adoption of the new rules. sustainable development is a common objective of the member states, enshrined in the preamble to the wto treaty. trade policy and environmental policy must be more mutually supportive. the european union therefore considers it important that sustainable development is the basis of the negotiations and that the environment is taken into account in the different sectors of the negotiating round. foreign direct investment has grown faster than trade in goods during this decade. we want to create a framework that ensures that investments are treated without discrimination around the world. at the same time as the wto is beginning to work on an investment treaty that guarantees the rights of international investors, we believe that a mechanism should also be put in place to ensure responsible action by investors. the wto's monitoring work in the field of trade and competition is important for the european union. we consider that the definition of multilateral competition principles is an important element of the liberalisation of international trade, which in our view will remain deficient if it is not possible to intervene in the wto on the obstacles to competition put in place by a particular company and on the distortions of competition that these obstacles engender. in these areas too, the special conditions of developing countries will have to be taken into account and they will have to be allowed to make flexible progress. the european union is firmly committed to promoting democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including fundamental labour rights. the european union therefore considers it important that attention be paid to issues concerning the social dimension of trade in the next round of negotiations. it should be remembered, however, that developing countries are strongly opposed to the examination of so-called 'labour standards' within the wto. developing countries are concerned that these wto negotiations on fundamental labour rights are a way of tackling the relative advantage they have from low labour costs at home. it goes without saying that the wto negotiations must be based on a principle of openness. by being open on the inside, we will be strong and credible on the outside. we consider it of great importance that members of the european parliament should take part in the ministerial meeting in seattle. as the country holding the presidency, we will ensure that parliament is informed and we will take its views into account as much as possible. it should also be noted that contacts with non-governmental organisations have been strengthened both at community level and in the member states. we are living in a time of historical significance. a new millennium will begin with the start of the new round of negotiations. while this new millennium brings challenges for the wto, it will also reflect progress. the introduction of new themes in the wto is the answer to today's challenges. these new themes will help to move progress along the desired path. the presidency's objective is that the council's motion for a resolution will be adopted next monday at the general affairs council meeting. immediately after the meeting of the general affairs council, i shall be presenting a detailed commentary to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 12 october on the council's common position in the light of the resolutions adopted. in conclusion, these resolutions are, by their very nature, the expression of the political will of the european union, which expresses a vision for the new millennium. the resolutions are addressed to the general public and at the same time confirm the general objectives of the european union for the start of the negotiating cycle on various substantive issues.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who wanted today's debate on the seattle conference did not want, as i understand it, an exchange of technical words, but a political presentation. i think they're right. our public opinion is well aware that trade liberalization - which we want to take to the next level - is part of a wider movement which raises questions and questions and on which we must therefore take a stand. so let's really and truly ask the question: is globalization good or bad? the commission considers it to be a positive development for at least three reasons. first, the globalisation of markets makes possible the economies of scale which are essential to the industrial revolutions under way in information technology, biotechnology and transport. these advances are what must reconcile population growth and economic growth with a limited supply of natural resources, because it is technical progress that pushes back the frontier of the sustainable use of these resources. secondly, it is access to our markets and the liberalisation of direct investment that have supported the successful industrialisation of south east asia, opening up new and growing markets for our own exports and demonstrating that there are strategies to overcome underdevelopment. it is also the successes of the industrialized countries and the emerging economies in asia in liberalizing trade that have shaken the confidence of communist regimes and led to their radical transformation in europe and asia. finally, globalisation reflects the perceptions of the rising generations, those of the next century, who, through the media and their own travels, experience the world as a village where interdependence commands solidarity and where the taste for difference and encounter is expressed. of course, i do not intend to restrict myself to a lyrical or idyllic vision of globalisation. like many of you, i see the costs and risks of free trade without rules and without strong multilateral institutions to govern it. i see inequalities on the rise and even social exclusion in our countries. i see the growing gaps between continents. i see the instability of the financial markets. i see the threats to the local and global environment. but while our role here is to reflect the concerns, questions and expectations of our fellow europeans, let us keep in mind the global dimension of the challenges, those of the developing countries, which are today divided between the hope of integration into the world economy and the fear of marginalisation. it is also our responsibility to sort out the fears of millennialism, the resistance to change and the opportunities to seize in globalisation for growth, human development and environmental protection. through the negotiation of the new cycle, we are preparing the multilateral organisation of world markets for the 21st century, with the aim of achieving better balances. you know the reasons why the commission has proposed to the council and your assembly a long agenda and a short timetable for seattle. although i have taken this train of thought, i believe that liberalization through a round of negotiations rather than through the wto routine is desirable for three reasons. first, the liberalization of the card does not work. real progress requires big packages and one final commitment. this does not preclude the rapid acquisition of initial agreements when they are already mature. secondly, new subjects must be integrated into the wto's missions, subjects brought up by civil society: environment, culture, health, food, and also competition and investment, which are now inseparable from international trade. third, the global economy needs direction, after the financial crises that emerging and transition economies have experienced over the past two years. a round therefore appears to be the surest way of countering the temptation to protectionism. let us briefly examine these points. our position - and the presidency of the council has just rightly recalled this - is first and foremost concerned that the union should not be locked into a sectoral negotiation, which is included in the conclusions of the uruguay round, and which would only concern agriculture and services. our strategy is to balance the negotiation by opening it to all sectors, so as to cover our interests offensively and defensively and to encourage partners - and in particular developing countries - to do the same. on the agricultural front, the guidelines of the berlin european council on agenda 2000 provide a solid basis for achieving progress in liberalization compatible with the european agricultural model. the second is to define rules and strengthen the wto institution in order to strengthen its multilateral character, improve the impact of globalisation on sustainable development and prevent the environmental and health risks inherent in unregulated competition between different national standards and production levels. these rules concern first of all investment and competition, two subjects which some of our partners are hesitant about, for very different reasons, and which, because of the precedent of ami - whose initials i prefer to spell out - arouse reservations on the part of some developing countries and reluctance, or even radical hostility, in some of our non-governmental organizations. let me briefly explain both of these topics. on investment, let us be clear: we will not seek to impose on developing countries our investment codes, those which prevail in our country and which suit us. we want to convince them through negotiation that the most effective way to attract foreign direct investment, the preferred route to technology and international markets, is first of all to create a safe and predictable environment for foreign investors, whether they are from industrialised or other emerging countries. competition poses new challenges to all our economies with globalisation, the concentration of economic power and the extra-territorial impact of national competition policy decisions. but for developing countries it is an even more formidable challenge. these countries are faced with a double problem: their internal markets are too often dominated by monopolies or oligopolies, the first effect of which is to make local consumers, and especially the poorest masses, pay far too high prices, while the second effect is to block the arrival of newcomers and force them to remain confined to the informal economy. restrictive practices in access to markets, credit and energy are one of the main causes - generally not well known in our country - of underdevelopment, perpetuation of social inequalities and corruption in these countries. the inclusion of competition on the wto agenda is not intended to transform the wto into a global competition authority, but merely to establish a body of principles and procedures to promote the implementation of internal competition policies and to make them compatible with each other. let us now turn to three other themes: environmental protection, consumer health and the audiovisual sector, which, beyond the tensions between technical progress and cultural traditions, refer to features of civilization which distinguish europe: the requirement for quality, for example that of food, cultural identity in an open world, the preference for the non-market in a number of activities. it is clear that we suffer from a lack of rules and procedures in this respect, and i must say that this is the case here at home. the european union has set out to define policies to protect the environment, health and food safety. it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in this area. everyone knows the complexity of these issues, which involve scientific knowledge with its share of uncertainties, national legislation and wto procedures. everyone is aware of the problem of the interface between national standards, wto rules and other multilateral agreements on the environment or health protection. with the new round, we must on the one hand prevent any abuse of these differences and divergences in a protectionist sense and on the other hand avoid leaving the markets to arbitrate between competing national standards. the precautionary principle must serve as a safety valve for us in regulating scientific uncertainties. furthermore, progress in labelling and product traceability, both of which are inseparable, would better inform consumer judgement. the european public also feels that it is necessary to strengthen the capacity for artistic creation in the audiovisual sector, a key sector of our culture, and the union must respond to this expectation. finally, i come to the issue that is most polarizing today between the opinions and governments of our member states, namely the link between trade liberalisation and progress in the fundamental rights of workers. for the european union, it goes without saying that these objectives are not only compatible but, in our experience, profoundly coherent. the return to free trade since the post-war period has been accompanied in europe by social progress, the two main vehicles of which have been the links of productivity and collective bargaining. in raising this question, we do not in any way mean to open up the possibility of setting wage standards or of weighing on the comparative advantages of developing countries, as mr sasi has very well said just now. we are also very aware of the risk of a protectionist drift which the unilateral imposition of social standards could potentially entail. nor do we want to make the wto the place for the development of these standards, the responsibility for which lies with the international labour organisation. our only concern is to advance in parallel the liberalization of trade and the respect, by our partners, of the fundamental social standards, as defined at the copenhagen social summit. in seattle, we must therefore try to convince the developing countries of the political legitimacy of this objective and of the interest of social progress in their own development. i have already referred to the developing countries on several occasions for two reasons. firstly, because the main target of this new round of negotiations is sustainable development and this concerns primarily the developing countries. secondly, because to achieve our objectives in this cycle, we need the consensus of all our partners and, of course, of the developing countries. but it is clear that this round should be seen in the wider context of global governance. a stronger and more rigorous link must therefore be ensured between the new pillar of the international system, the wto, and the pillar already constituted by the bretton woods institutions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the new cycle you have called for raises an important question for me: does the union, through its own action, provide european governments and citizens with additional means to successfully adjust to and manage globalisation? are we willing, by exploiting our size, our weight in the world economy, the institutional advances we have made, to regain a sovereignty that the world markets sometimes contest and to contribute to effective global governance? if the council and parliament respond positively, our negotiating position will be stronger. this will mean that we are able to take the adherence to our opinions and to transform the fears we feel here and there into a project that makes sense. i hope that your parliament will one day be called upon to give its opinion on the results of the new round, which will require a lot of work and a lot of dialogue on our part. i am once again committed, on behalf of the commission, to continuing this dialogue with you on a permanent basis in the months and years to come.
- (de) mr vice-president, mr president-in-office, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the development of world trade over the last fifty years has been a success. during this period, global trade in goods increased 17-fold and overall economic output more than doubled. the increase in prosperity and job creation in europe are important consequences. an important condition for this is free and fair world trade in a consolidating multilateral trading system. the globalisation of economic activity, which is proceeding at an unusual pace and scale, now makes it imperative to further develop this multilateral regulatory framework which has its roots in gatt and the wto. this objective is at the heart of the millennium cycle. the commission has proposed a comprehensive eu strategy that dynamically addresses all the areas concerned and i can already say, as rapporteur, that it enjoys broad support in the european parliament. we are defending the european agricultural model, which includes food production, the maintenance of family farms, the preservation of rural areas and the protection of the environment. it is not a defensive attitude towards the us position on the importation of agricultural products and genetically modified organisms into the eu that should determine the course of this millennium cycle: rather, the european union should find allies in support of its overall dynamic strategy. in this case, the use of globalisation should benefit the different regions and nations of the world in a fair way, which implies a better balance between the interests of the european union, the other european states, the usa, the other industrialised countries and the emerging and developing countries. to this end, the framework we have had since the creation of the world trade organisation in 1995 must be developed and its instruments completed. the negotiating principles and the most important outlines of solutions developed by the commission in its july 1999 document have so far received a largely positive response in our discussions in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. let me outline our approach to the content of this dossier today: we shall have the opportunity to discuss it in detail in november. our draft resolution will contain many of the dynamic elements already mentioned by the president of the council and commissioner lamy, which take up our ideas for a better involvement of financial services, an investment and competition policy in the wto, further reductions in customs duties on industrial products and better incorporation of environmental and consumer protection - let us even talk about mainstreaming - in the wto regulatory framework and vice versa. the protection of intellectual property needs to be improved in many developing countries. the global trading system should take better account of labour standards and our markets should be more open to developing countries. however, some questions remain open as regards cooperation between the council and the commission on the one hand and parliament on the other in the context of the millennium cycle. let me say at the outset that the european parliament welcomes the dialogue with the commission and hopes that the council will also be involved in this dialogue. in the resolution which will be put to the vote in november, it will defend its position with consistency, energy and responsibility. you can count on us, mr president of the council sasi and mr commissioner lamy, to defend with energy and consistency the position which will be determined in our resolution not only vis-à-vis you but also vis-à-vis the partners involved in the negotiations of the millennium cycle. in doing so, we will also try to honour our responsibility as the elected representatives of the peoples of europe. secondly, we are starting from the principle, which has been justified so far, that the commission and the council are defending the interests of the european union with the same consistency. the strength of the european union, the world's largest trading power, lies in its common position, which is defended by everyone. we are therefore concerned about the rumours that even before the negotiations begin, some delegations in the council...
- (de) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner lamy, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address some fundamental aspects of the millennium cycle which my group considers important. my colleagues will look at the details more fully, each from their own point of view. the new round of world trade, which will begin on 30 november in seattle, offers an opportunity to partially extend the world trade scenario to some important aspects. it will automatically be symbolic and should contain a clear message from the european union. the aim must be to generate growth, employment and prosperity for all, while at the same time reducing global poverty. the concept of open markets only makes sense if everyone benefits. we need a new approach which reconciles trade and social components without creating new discrimination through disguised protectionism. it is therefore necessary that social and occupational standards, health and food standards and environmental aspects be an essential part of the negotiated package. the new round of wto negotiations may lead to a new surge in globalisation and will cause anxiety for many people. we must show that everyone can benefit from the opening up of world trade. in this respect, it is particularly important to achieve a better integration of developing countries into the world economy and the multilateral trading system. the socialist group expressly supports the commission's approach to linking the concepts of globalisation and sustainable development. only in this way will the foundations of world trade be more balanced and socially just. we also agree with the commission and the council when they say that comprehensive negotiations are needed, that is to say negotiations covering all the subjects. only in this way can we ensure a balanced assessment of the various advantages and disadvantages and a general guarantee of the interests of the european union and its citizens. this time the european union must show that it is capable of playing a leading role - if not the leading role - in this marathon of negotiations. it would be fatal to respond to the present weakness of american power with european passivity. this call is addressed in particular to the council, so that it can express a firm position on the european side and express its full confidence in the commission by giving it a comprehensive negotiating mandate within the given deadlines, which also makes clear the formal involvement of parliament. only a strong european union can achieve a better balance between the european model of liberalisation and the american model in the context of the globalisation process within the world trade organisation. comprehensive information and transparency are needed to win the public's confidence and approval for this new round of negotiations. we particularly welcome the consultation of trade unions and non-governmental organisations. confidence is also necessary because the further development of the european model depends, among other things, on the future room for manoeuvre at national and regional levels. consider that the world trade organization is one, if not the only, governing element of world economic processes. only by combining transparency, public participation and formal and comprehensive means... (the president cut the speaker off)
- (de) mr president, the world's wealth is still distributed in the most unequal way. in the last five years, since the founding of the wto, the differences have become more marked, and those outside the most industrialized nations are a little more distant. that is why we do not need new rounds of liberalization but a fundamental analysis and evaluation of the effects of the uruguay round on countries, people and the environment. the wto meeting in seattle is the right place to do that. fundamental reform of the institution is also needed. in particular, transparency, democratic control and equal participation by all countries must be guaranteed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they cannot be put in competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the developing countries. similarly, food safety must be declared a non-trade concern in accordance with article 20 of the agreement on agriculture. it is right that many countries in the south are calling for a revision of the trips convention because they are losing the right to use their own resources. we are also strongly opposed to patenting living things. any agreement similar to the imi concluded at the wto level alone must also be rejected. other international institutions, such as the un and the ilu, for example, must be involved. in short, the priority of the seattle negotiations must be the well-being of all and not the interests of the big groups, the rich and the powerful, such as the european union and a few elites and oligarchies in the developing countries. the commission cannot be given a negotiating mandate which is contrary to human rights, social rights and the environment. the developing countries, because they are not powerful economic partners, need guaranteed preferential treatment in writing as the rule and not the exception. we owe it to them and to all of us.
- (de) mr president, i think that what we are about to conclude will probably be the most consequential international agreement we have ever seen. this is all the more depressing in view of the fact that there has not yet been an overall assessment of the results of the uruguay round. i was wondering yesterday, during our debate on food safety, how we can be so sure that many of the current consequences are not the result of deregulation already in place. i find it all the more unacceptable that negotiating mandates are hardly discussed in national parliaments. i am ashamed to have to accept that many developing countries which are contractually bound to this debate and are particularly affected by its consequences cannot sit at the negotiating table for financial reasons and that the assistance is so limited. if i may ask one thing in the short time i have, it is that this parliament, beyond partisan opposition, should look to public opinion, transparency and intensive debate.
(de) mr president, commissioner, in view of the short time available, i should like to say a few key words. what is the formal necessity? we must change the arbitration procedure in the world trade organization and make it more transparent, clearer and more accessible to the public. this is one of the essential conditions for ensuring that areas such as environmental and consumer protection are given the place they deserve and are not 'merged' into any panel. as far as the content is concerned, mr lamy, the main thing is the precautionary principle. i've mentioned it several times already. we must incorporate into the agreement the precautionary principle on plant health inherited from the trade agreement. so what do we need? environmental and health policy is an important and justified part of this agreement. the commission's work on trade and the environment in the world trade organization is not enough. so far it has not done its duty and it is necessary to punish it. it must be given a clear timetable so that it can support the work. what are the most important areas that we can really get? we must do what the commission asks. we must make the wto more open, more democratic and more transparent and ensure that the whole agreement can be subjected to what you yourself have mentioned, namely a review of its environmental compatibility. we must look at production methods that are not product-oriented and we must have the whole problem in mind. i am convinced that this parliament will never ratify a treaty which does not respect the precautionary principle, consumer protection and health policy.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking of a deficit sector and i declare that i recognize the advantages of further liberalization. i would like to see a balance of trade on a world scale. the tried and tested european model must be maintained, for example in terms of our high environmental standards and consumer protection, including socioeconomic measures. in this context, it is necessary to take account of certain maritime aspects - even if the problems of the fisheries sector are not as acute as those of the agricultural sector - in the wto negotiations. i will therefore mention three aspects. first, europe is obliged to import fish. any weakening of the european fish processing industry leads to large numbers of job losses in regions that already suffer from structural deficits. the valuable help provided so far by the commission and the european parliament through various market-specific or regulatory instruments cannot be sacrificed on the altar of unchecked liberalisation. secondly, international fisheries agreements are aimed at the use of non-european waters and support european fishermen and the development of third countries. i do not want to talk about protectionism. however, without public support, these agreements would not be possible. it is a question of looking beyond liberalisation to safeguard the many jobs which can depend on a balanced and regulated world market. in future, the principle of partnership must be strengthened at the global level. this means, however, that free trade cannot be called the new golden calf. it must be given to other important objectives, such as environmental protection or sustainability in the fisheries sector. the wto negotiations are very specifically about ensuring that the products we want to market around the world are still available when we finally talk about them.
- (de) mr president, the importance of the millennium cycle in terms of the economy and employment and of world trade for the european economy, which is the world's main trading partner, cannot be stated clearly enough. in view of this, it is particularly important that the european union make it clear that it is opposed to any attempt to impose a new or even old form of protectionism. it must help to develop an interdependent form of government for interdependent economies and a comprehensive concept of economic management. it will be important above all to develop an international order of competition. this is all the more important since it would be of little use to the development of the european economy to have competition rules here that do not apply elsewhere in the world. i think of the titanic marriages, the mergers, i think of the price and territory agreements. it is unacceptable that the hundred largest companies in the world are sharing the cake and that we can only react verbally, without being able to act. we therefore need a minimum catalogue of international competition rules to be transposed into national competition rules. first of all, we also need independent competition authorities in all wto member states to ensure that these minimum standards of competition law are implemented. the question of whether the arbitration procedure can ever be transferred to an international competition authority is one that we have yet to settle.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, i should like to make a few remarks and prayers on two specific points. first, the emissions trading. the trading of emission allowances has two sides; one political, the other economic. politically, there are different ways of looking at it. many in our group believe that emissions trading - which is buying back the obligation to reduce co2 emissions - is politically indefensible. i do not want to go into this but i think that reducing co2 emissions is not only a burden but also has an economic effect and offers the possibility of reconciling the improvement of the quality of life with employment. i therefore believe that we cannot advocate unlimited trade in emission allowances. i am firmly convinced that the position adopted by parliament - to allow a maximum of 50% of emissions trading and to require that 50% of the reduction be carried out in the country itself - is the right political and economic way to generate employment here too. there are many studies showing that a reduction of 34 000 coal equivalents, for example, creates some 100 jobs in europe, and we should be embarking on this path to reconcile ecology and economics in order to create more jobs. so i ask you to declare here that you will not approve any agreement which allows the transfer of more than 50% of the emission allowances outside a given country. secondly, the involvement of the european parliament. i am glad, mrs wallström, that you have once again stressed your willingness to work closely with the european parliament and i believe you wholeheartedly. however, past experience has shown that sometimes this was not the case, that collaboration took place in an ad hoc fashion, whether within delegations where it seemed that the european commission was negotiating while the parliamentarians present were only elements of the decor, or with regard to the very wording of the mandate or, to take a particularly negative example, the commitment to reduce emissions and its negotiation by the commission with the relevant partners, especially more recently with the japanese and korean car manufacturers. there has been no contact with the european parliament on this matter, and the parliament has not even been officially informed. the council has been informed and will take a decision on this on 12 october, but we are not included. if we want to apply the instrument of voluntary commitments, i ask you to involve all the partners. the second request i make is that we should be able to find a modus vivendi for parliament to be involved.
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i think that public opinion does not expect us to contribute to global warming, but to take concrete measures. the main focus will be on concrete steps towards implementing the european union's commitments, sectoral objectives and timetables. unfortunately, i didn't hear much of that today. i would ask you to be more specific and i think we must now move on to implementing all this in europe and we cannot wait any longer until our commitments start to come to fruition. i would like to make two further points. commissioner, you mentioned renewable energy. the question here is not so much aid and similar measures as when we will have a european directive on access to the grid for renewable energy with a cost-compensation. secondly, the question of kerosene, already mentioned by our swedish colleague. because of international obligations, it is not possible to tax kerosene. what is possible, however, is to tax co2 emissions. the european union could introduce such a measure immediately. i would like to know what the timetables are and what your position is on these two concrete proposals to help reduce co2 emissions considerably.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the joint resolution of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and, unlike other members of my group, i also support the adoption of this resolution on the co2 tax. in germany, the cdu does not think - we have recently discussed this with our president, mr schäuble - that we should stop working on a european solution simply because the national red-green government is treating the subject of environmental taxes so incorrectly. but we should not concentrate on this tax issue alone, as i have had the impression in committee and in our group. there are indeed many areas of co2 reduction that we cannot solve by taxation alone, or perhaps we cannot even solve by taxation alone. i will cite the example of standby mode in paragraph 9 of the motion for a resolution, which i introduced. five to ten per cent of europe's energy consumption is wasted because we put our televisions and other electronic devices on standby mode instead of turning them off. five to ten per cent is a huge contribution to energy savings that could be made by switching off appliances or incorporating new technical devices to reduce their energy consumption. however, we will not achieve this by a tax. the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of television, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support it in its efforts to achieve this. but i would ask those who say that they do not want a tax but other solutions not to take refuge again in the rejection of any european regulation when we discuss the technical possibilities in the field of standby. we must do something if we are to be credible in the negotiations. we shouldn't be talking about co2 alone either, because if my data is correct, 50 percent of the greenhouse effect is due to other greenhouse gases. i think we are not thinking about it enough and we should be taking it more seriously in this debate.
(de) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mrs laura gonzález álvarez and the spanish speaker who will speak after me. without them, the prejudice that this is a debate affecting only northern europe would have been confirmed. no, it is a theme that affects all of us. on the subject of climate change, i would like to express my concern that this subject is gradually disappearing from the spotlight and becoming less and less of interest to public opinion and politicians. all in all, we have professed our faith and that is enough for most. that would be particularly dangerous. so i would like to suggest two things. firstly, we should support the proposal by our colleague mr lange to involve parliament closely in decisions on emissions trading, because such a heavy interference in trade policy is unlikely to be imposed against parliament's wishes. secondly, i suggest that a binding timetable be drawn up for sanctions against eu states that deviate from the reduction target. i propose to use the model of concerted debt reduction that made the euro possible.
- (de) mr president, after having discussed in detail the question of global negotiations, it is now, of course, a matter of optimising our own strategy. i am therefore pleased that the commissioner is at last showing her willingness to present the appropriate strategies. at the moment, i have the impression that our actions are relatively selective and ad hoc and not geared to our objective. we do indeed need an integrated strategy to guide our decisions on sectoral measures to be taken. i would like to return to the voluntary agreements. the commission's communication makes the following very logical statement: we call on all parties concerned to conclude voluntary agreements. in doing so, it is not said precisely where the priorities lie and under what conditions this should happen. i would like to repeat from this platform the demand that parliament has continually made for a clear statement of what measures are essential in each sector and how they are to be implemented.
(de) mr president, some of my colleagues have asked very specific questions. i would ask mrs wallström to address them concretely. the first was the question of when the commission would present sectoral reduction plans with timetables and the second was the question of co2 emissions from kerosene in the air transport sector. the question then remains, of course, of your position on a directive on access to the grid for renewable energy sources with a cost-sharing clause. i would be grateful if you could give me some concrete comments on these three points. i do not know if you will be able to do so in such a short time after you have taken office. but we agree that we should all do something for the environment.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, as the honourable member knows, community preference in trade and aid under the phare programme and in contractual relations is in accordance with the european union's regional approach to the countries of south-east europe. the countries in question know the criteria they have to meet and the areas in which the european union wants progress to be made. the council regularly analyses progress towards meeting the criteria of the regional approach. in its last assessment of the situation on 21 june 1999, the council noted that the dialogue between the croatian government and the opposition had improved over the last six months. the council considered, however, that progress in the areas of democratisation, human rights and the independence of the judiciary was insufficient, in particular as regards the separation of powers and the return of minorities to their countries of origin. the council also considered that the government had not undertaken an appropriate information campaign on the rights of persons wishing to return to the country. on the basis of its analysis, the council concluded that the unilateral community preference in the trade area would continue to apply to croatia. the council noted that progress should be made in the process of democratisation, in particular as regards media reform, electoral reform and the return of refugees. however, he noted some positive developments in the issues of elections and media. the council assumed that if current trends in these areas continued, croatia would soon have the opportunity to benefit from the phare programme. as regards contractual relations, the council considered that the opening of negotiations on a stability and association agreement, which is a new type of bilateral agreement that the european union is proposing to the countries of south-east europe, would be examined on the basis of a commission report when croatia had fulfilled the conditions. the council intends to consider its eligibility next in november this year.
- (de) i am referring directly to a debate with mr verheugen during question time before the european elections, and i would like to say that croatia could of course improve many things. but many of the expelled people have returned and it is a developing democracy. that is why i would like to ask you why russia, like ukraine, is benefiting from a tacis programme and why countries like albania, which are facing many problems, are benefiting from a trade and cooperation agreement? why are we imposing stricter criteria on croatia than on any other country, as i fear? the phare programme and the trade and cooperation agreement are the beginning of the rapprochement of a country with the aim of reforming and opening it up to the outside world. my question is, are you willing to finally take that step?
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have spoken about a war in chechnya in this house. this is not the first time we have spoken about a problem in the caucasus either. the causes of the current crisis, on the other hand, are much more comprehensible and conceivable than in 1995. the events of recent weeks in dagestan and chechnya almost necessarily imply the need for military intervention to deal with an urgent problem. the problems of the caucasus, chechnya, dagestan and ingushetia are not new. they have been around for decades, even centuries. for this reason, it is absolutely essential that our resolution conveys the message that this problem must be tackled and a comprehensive solution found. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not affected by the crisis. the proposal to convene a new millennium conference involving also european partners and organisations and to create the appropriate structures to host these negotiations is therefore important. i hope our russian partners will also admit this. but the european union must also deal intensively with the refugee problem. hundreds of thousands of people have fled again. we have not yet solved the question of refugees from previous conflicts. i would ask the commission to come forward as soon as possible with proposals for a solution to this problem, to find a way, as we are on the eve of winter, to enable refugees to survive the cold. i think that the help we could give is a profoundly european matter.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, war is at it again. unfortunately, this term does not appear in the proposal; i am therefore pleased that mrs krehl has spoken. do you not consider it horrible and worrying that political leaders are considering and using military force as an unavoidable means of settling conflicts? similarly, do you not consider it horrifying and worrying that bombing, that inhuman tactic, which was taken to the extreme during the conflict with yugoslavia and which causes the civilian population more suffering than any other, has now been considered as a relevant political means? mrs kehl, i do not understand your argument that terror can be met with terror, or that you are defending the present situation of the russians. in politics, military intervention is not part of the conflict resolution spectrum!
- (de) mr president, the caucasus is currently being shaken by a brutal colonial war, disguised as a campaign, i would almost say a crusade, against terrorism and fundamentalist ideology. a few years ago, during the gulf war, we said, "no blood for oil". i now regret these demonstrations; this is exactly what is happening in the caucasus. mr putin openly stated that the stakes of the conflict involved exclusively or mainly the interests of energy and raw materials on the ground. once again, human rights are being violated with monstrous brutality. the last war had seen this. we were also slow to face up to the reality of the situation at the time, only to say later that we should have known better. that 's what we have to avoid today ! yesterday we learned that russia's military budget is to be increased by €1 billion next year because of the conflict in chechnya. you know that without the imf credits and without the eu money, russia would already be insolvent today. it means that we are the ones who are financing this brutal war. we therefore have a duty to mobilise politically and use the trade and cooperation agreement to stop this war and to ensure that dialogue is restored with the osce-controlled elected president and parliament of chechnya. you know that moscow has reactivated the pseudo-parliamentary council set up before the ceasefire it signed, that it recognises this council and that it has unilaterally broken the agreement concluded under the supervision of the oecd. we must oppose this! mrs kehl, i must say quite frankly that i cannot understand why the chairwoman of the saxony spd is welcoming military action exactly ten years after the decision to use military force in saxony against refugees, displaced persons, asylum seekers and demonstrators. at the time, i wish mr markov and his colleagues had taken such a clear stance, but that is another story. but regardless of that, we must stop this cruel campaign against humanity! (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing a new tragic chapter in the history of russia since the fall of the soviet union. there are certainly reasons to understand why the russian government might intervene forcefully in terrorist attacks against the civilian population. however, an intervention to transform a state into a state governed by the rule of law should not be confused with the current situation in chechnya. the first chechen conflict had already killed and injured a huge number of people, in proportions comparable to other major world and european conflicts. we cannot, as the european parliament, on the one hand denounce these human rights violations in other regions and massively call for them to stop, and on the other hand, not react against russia, say because it is an important economic partner! even in the case of russia, the european parliament is obliged, the european union is obliged to adopt a clear and unambiguous stance in favour of human rights and against their violation. it is therefore appropriate that we should be addressing this issue today in the context of the debate on topical, urgent and of major importance.
- (de) in view of the supply problems, i was simply wondering whether the commission intended to press georgia to complete the construction of the missing 700 m stretch of road to the chechen border, which had been suspended under pressure from russia, in order to bring humanitarian aid to the chechen border in the future.
- (de) mr president, i too consider this to be an important step, but unlike mr haarder, i am extremely dissatisfied. three things stand out to me: firstly, i find it overwhelming that there is no clear code allowing arms exports to indonesia until the summer of 1999. secondly, the differences between the rules which rightly prohibit arms exports to yugoslavia and those which permit them, for example in indonesia, make it possible to say that other interests, namely economic and commercial interests, are decisive. thirdly, it seems to me obvious that the dependence of governments on these economic interests is such that it is not possible to have single rules here. i therefore consider it urgently necessary that the parliamentary assembly here present a case not only for the desirable transparency but also for it to be associated with arms export control.
- (de) mr president, as vice-chairman of the delegation that has just chaired this question and as longtime rapporteur on this country, i can only agree with the previous speaker's opinion. we know that we are facing an extremely difficult situation, because this country has given new life to the dubious values of stalinism and it seems that nothing is changing. belarus also plays an important role in the security structure of europe as a whole; moreover, and this should not be forgotten, it is a country that shares a common border with the european union. for this reason, we naturally see the slightest sign of hope that we can restore a democratic movement in this country. but the situation is difficult, as you can imagine. the oecd's work is faltering despite the enormous motivation of the working group and the fact that it really seizes every opportunity. all attempts at dialogue with the opposition are thwarted on the ground by the violation of human rights in the streets, in prisons and against the free media. it is necessary to make it clear to mr lukashenko that he cannot be double-talking. the dramatic and sudden disappearance of important people, opponents of lukashenko, shows that the opposition must be eliminated. any critical article is threatened with closure. we must really try to make our point, even if we are naturally in favour of dialogue and do not want to disturb the process of dialogue. but it is up to mr lukashenko to take the first step in this respect, for example by agreeing to the 5 million programme for civil society during the commission's next visit to minsk. the release of the imprisoned opponents must be a secondary objective. these would be signs of a dialogue beginning. i was asked what the point of this resolution was, since mr lukashenko was not taking it into account anyway. but it makes sense, because we want to show the public that we will never lose hope for change in belarus and that we will do everything we can to restore democracy in that country.
- thank you, mrs schroedter. we have almost personally felt your commitment ! now, allow me to call mr. sacrédeus. if you could help us with the correct pronunciation of your name. it's obviously a sacred name, and you're from sweden. we'd appreciate it if you'd say your name.
- mr wiersma, i don't blame you for speaking three times today about human rights; on the contrary, we need parliamentarians to speak out on this issue. but i would ask you in future not to exceed 100% of your speaking time.
- thank you, sir. our colleague hanja maij-weggen asked me to point out that she would have been happy to add in her speech that a delegation of dutch moluques is here and has just followed our debate with great interest.
- (de) mr president, this is a procedural motion! urgent matters have this peculiarity that they are urgent. normally we receive the amended texts voted on with the minutes on friday morning. i wanted to ask you whether these texts would be available tomorrow morning in strasbourg for me to pick up, or will they be available this afternoon?
- (de) madam president, our colleagues on the committee on fisheries have always wished that we did not discuss fisheries only on fridays and we thought we heard that there was still enough time to discuss an additional subject during the thursday afternoon session. given the importance of relations with morocco, not only in general but also in the field of fisheries policy, we are pleased to have the time to discuss a subject of such importance on thursday. i shall be indebted to this house for achieving a relative unanimity on this matter.
- (de) i am sorry, madam president, but i thought we were talking about tuesday when we were already talking about wednesday. i would ask you to tell me whether it would be possible for the council, before we go to vote on the report on kosovo, to finally give its opinion on the amendments tabled by parliament - as we have urged it to do. we could then proceed to the final vote. we had written to the council asking it to be present and give us its opinion before we voted. is it now clear whether this is the way things will go ?
president of the committee on budgetary control. - (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr napolitano for his good report and for his call for progress on this matter. anyway, i'm just stating the facts. more than a year ago, on 7 october 1998, an overwhelming majority, two thirds of the voters, voted here in strasbourg in favour of our colleague mr bösch's report on olaf and therefore in favour of the creation of an operationally independent anti-fraud office. in view of the criticisms already voiced at the time, we had demanded that olaf be an investigative body which deals objectively and without prejudice with cases of fraud or corruption. the first draft of the old commission was unusable. we demanded changes. then, in may of this year, we adopted the regulation governing olaf's activities with the council and concluded the interinstitutional agreement in question today between the three institutions - parliament, council and commission. for olaf, this agreement is, if you will, a "door opener". it lays down the rights and duties of persons concerned by investigations. in doing so, we are, among other things, giving a clear answer to the often debated question of insider information. in future, any official who has concrete evidence of fraud or corruption will not only have the duty to report it, but also the right to bypass the hierarchy and go directly to olaf if he deems it necessary, without any prejudice. another important point, which has been the subject of some controversy in the past, is the information of those involved in an inquiry. it'll have to be as fast as possible. in no case may any conclusions be drawn concerning the name of a member, official or employee without the person concerned having had the opportunity to express his views. the principle of contradictory examination is therefore perfectly clear. exceptions to this principle are possible only with the agreement of the president or the secretary-general, and again in very limited and exceptional cases involving particularly complex investigations in which too early information of the persons concerned could prejudice the work of the national judicial authorities. these are the two central elements of the interinstitutional agreement. they were approved in strasbourg on 6 may 1999 by a very large majority. the political decision taken at the time must now be enshrined in parliament's rules of procedure in order to allow it to have legal validity. i know from the conversations i have had that some members are afraid - as has also been expressed in this house - that olaf investigations could be abused in this way to put pressure on them, even though they are well aware that in the name of our credibility as members of parliament we cannot exclude ourselves from such investigations. two things about that. olaf does not annul the protocol on privileges and immunities which grants special protection to parliament and its work. the national judicial authorities will therefore still have to ask for the waiver of immunity, which will have to be decided by this house. secondly, we have taken all the necessary precautions to ensure the independence of the office in its investigative work, even though it remains a commission department formally and organisationally. as a political control body, we will intervene if this independence is threatened. that is why i take this opportunity to tell the commission that i find the recent appointment of a new head of division within olaf unacceptable. the criticism is not directed at the person named, whom i do not know, but at the fact that there has clearly been another attempt to put us in front of the fait accompli before the arrival of the new director. we have to reconsider that decision. (applause) i would like to thank the commission must do everything in its power to ensure that no suspicion arises in this respect. a brief comment on the appointment of the new director which has given rise to some confusion. after the commission has published the final list of suitable candidates, parliament and the council must reach a political agreement on the best candidate. let me repeat what mr bonde has very rightly said: the new director is faced with a major challenge which will require a good deal of experience, independence and strength of character. so we are involved in a decision of the utmost importance. let's make good use of it. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the decision to set up an anti-fraud office is largely the result of the commitment of the european parliament. this decision was very significant because the fight against fraud plays a central role in the evaluation of european policy by the citizens of the member states. that is why public opinion is counting on the full efficiency of this office, first of all efficiency vis-à-vis the institutions within which olaf can conduct its investigations, and i therefore welcome mr napolitano's report and the contributions to this debate. the appointment of the director of the office naturally plays a very important role in the effectiveness of the office. it has been pointed out on several occasions in this house that a specific procedure has been agreed. it is therefore also necessary to avoid any formal errors in this procedure. i can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, and you too, mr bösch, that i would strictly avoid any form of unfavourable influence in the choice of the director. only qualifications for this range of essential tasks can be decisive and i hope that a compromise can be reached very soon on the choice of candidate and the appointment of the director and that the posts you wish to fill this year will be filled soon. i can assure you that the commission is fully aware of the role that the fight against fraud plays in the citizens' assessment of european policy and i can therefore once again, on behalf of the commission, welcome the report and the work that has been done.
- thank you, chief inspector schreyer. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, after the vote on the budget.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0034/1999) by mr lechner, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on a community framework for electronic signatures (7634/1/1999 - c5-0026/1999 - 1998/0191 (cod)).
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the internet used to be a means of information, its use has now been extended to buying and selling, not only for companies but also for mr. tout-le-monde. this rapidly growing market by its nature overlooks national frontiers and requires a community framework. the commission is aware of this and has put forward a proposal for a directive on a community framework for electronic signatures, i.e. signatures which are not in handwritten form but in electronic form. in january 1999, parliament approved 32 amendments at first reading. subsequently, on 28 june 1999, the council adopted its common position, taking into account to a large extent the amendments proposed by parliament. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market debated this common position and adopted it unanimously, with seven amendments. there is one, however, that we should not accept. i would like to address the following points: the directive is designed primarily for participants in open systems such as the internet and does not alter in any way the voluntary agreements concluded in the framework of so-called 'closed' systems. the internet does not stop at the borders of europe. the directive therefore aims at openness towards third countries and provides for cross-border agreements. secondly, the future of legal and commercial electronic transactions depends to a large extent on the confidence of consumers in improving security; the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be consulted on the interpretation of the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. to this end, electronic signatures are a crucial prerequisite. this signature, issued in electronic form, can guarantee the identity of the author or signatory of a declaration. in addition, the integrity of the data transmitted can also be established. as regards the technical standards covered by the directive, the aim was to achieve technological openness. a higher standard of security should be achieved through advanced signatures and qualified certificates. the directive guarantees the community supply of the corresponding cryptographic products without allowing it to be subject to authorization. however, it does allow for voluntary accreditation schemes to improve the level of quality standards. the minimum liability of certification service providers is provided for in the chapter. the use of pseudonyms must be allowed and data protection must also be taken into account. as regards users' confidence in the reliability of legal electronic transactions carried out on the internet, a crucial issue is the legal effects of these procedures. in the future, advanced signatures will be legally equivalent to handwritten signatures because they are particularly secure. but in principle, the legal effects and the use of simple signatures as a means of proof cannot be disputed. with this directive, which is the first general regulation of its kind in the world, the european union is taking a decisive first step towards regulating and promoting electronic commerce within the community. it is likely to strengthen citizens' confidence in the reliability of open networks, in the services and products offered and in the legal value of transactions carried out on the internet. it also contributes greatly to the free movement of goods and services in the internal market, both for consumers - shopping on the internet; if i may mention a fact of interest to the general public - that for providers and producers of essential cryptographic services and products. i would like to thank the commission and the council in particular for their exemplary cooperation with parliament. i would also like to thank the members of all the groups in this parliament and those who were members of them in the previous parliament, which had carried out a lot of preparatory work. our task is essentially to dismantle, with courage, national regulations which are in disagreement and harmonize them. in this case, we are faced with a new technological and social reality in full development which we can inscribe from the outset in an autonomous european legal framework and which, in doing so, we can offer special protection as a european legal community. we must not allow the emergence or strengthening of national regulations which are not in line with the community's interests, beyond a certain margin of manoeuvre. for this reason too, i believe it is important that this directive should come into force as soon as possible and i ask you to approve it.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, european regulations are often criticised for their lack of balance: they are too bureaucratic, or serve special interests, or are even ignorant of developments on a world scale. i think we can say that in this case we have a very good counterexample. legal harmonization always requires a difficult balance to be struck between the necessary harmonization on the one hand and the consideration of the legal traditions of the member states on the other. we have here a great example of balance. on the one hand, there are few but clearly defined rules on the requirements for electronic signatures; on the other hand, member states may decide in which cases they treat such signatures as traditional declarations of intent, whether in the form of a signature, a handwritten document or another official act. in this connection, i would like to stress in particular amendment no 2, which clarifies a somewhat confused wording in article 5 (1). i would like to emphasize once again that in the course of the discussions in committee we were all assured that there is no automatic link between an electronic signature and its transposition into formal requirements defined in the member states. the legislator is free to decide on the cases in which he equates an electronic signature with a handwritten signature. this directive is also a good example of balancing the interests of the economic sector on the one hand, and those of consumers on the other. first, we have a clear and simple rule that sets out only a few requirements. for example, consider the annexes. but on the other hand, we have the necessary protection in terms of the binding nature of these contracts and the liability of the service provider. finally, this directive is a good example, not only of the european union's consistent action at home, in the internal market, but also of its openness to international cooperation. we have a clear framework which is primarily of internal community value, but it should be noted that the text of the directive itself states that it is open to the establishment of international rules. in this particular area, it is very clear that community harmonization places us on an intermediate level in regulatory matters. we have the national level, we have the european level and for some time now, we have been adding the international level, more and more and in an increasing number of areas. in this respect, it is good that we make it clear that we are ready to address the issues of new technologies, of electronic commerce, on a global scale. it is clear that this will also have to play a role in the wto negotiations. as a new member of this house, i am pleased to have been able to make my first contribution to this excellent example of european regulation, which i hope will receive broad support in this house, and i also hope that the directive will be adopted without any problems in the council of ministers.
- thank you very much, mr wuermeling, for your first speech in the european parliament.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to begin by thanking mr lechner for his excellent report, which i can also support in full. with this directive on a community framework for electronic signatures, the european union is taking an important step towards eliminating obstacles to electronic commerce. until now, the legal consequences of electronic signatures have been unclear and the question of whether electronic declarations with a digital signature could be admitted as evidence in legal proceedings was particularly open. these problems will lose their importance at european level, since the directive will now also allow legally binding declarations to be made in electronic form and thus allow electronic commerce. the directive is the first step towards the creation of a comprehensive regulatory framework for electronic commerce. in doing so, it is, among other things, setting the course for the e-commerce directive, the distance selling directive and, to some extent, the copyright directives, both of which will soon be dealt with at second reading in the european parliament. my colleague mr wuermeling has already quite rightly explained that the directive leaves it to the member states to determine in what cases an electronic declaration with a digital signature is equivalent to a declaration with a handwritten signature or to a declaration for which the law requires, for example, the handwritten form. i particularly welcome the fact that the directive excludes national contract law from its scope - in particular, as regards the form and execution of contracts - and limits itself to the essentials. i would like to make two brief remarks on the directive. firstly, it is extremely important to create a european electronic signature system which is open to global developments and capable of integration. in this connection, the commission is particularly invited to contact third countries and international organizations to find appropriate solutions. in this context, particular attention will have to be paid to the proposals developed in this field by the un commission on international trade law (uncitral), the oecd and the wto. the objective must be the cross-border recognition of electronic signatures, which implies the creation of an international and compatible framework. secondly, i would like to stress - and i will end here - the importance and urgency of regulations on market access for certification service providers, the application of internal market principles and liability. it is high time that common provisions brought legal certainty to both certification service providers and consumers, who would then know precisely - as in the case of the use of credit cards - to what extent their liability may be incurred.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i must say that this is the first time in this parliament that i agree with all the speakers. the debate was very constructive and different points of view were exchanged. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lechner, in particular, on his constructive report. the progress made in parliament has also been of symbolic importance for future issues to be addressed in this area. the pace of technological change is such that we must strike a balance between rapid procedures and flexible legislation. if we fail, we will not be able to meet the demands arising from the upheavals we are witnessing every day in the various sectors of the information society in its various sectors. the directive on the agenda today deals with the use and legal recognition of electronic signatures. it is very important, and we have repeatedly stressed this today. the use of e-commerce by both businesses and consumers is increasing rapidly. the internet will be felt throughout europe in about five years. we can expect that by 2005 half of the european population will be connected to the internet, not only through personal computers but also, and increasingly, through mobile communication devices. that's the message that everybody got at the geneva telecom expo two weeks ago. the use of electronic signatures is an important means of ensuring authenticity in the future electronic world. without such signatures, european citizens will not be able to communicate securely by electronic means. in fact, internet use may even be curbed due to growing concerns about security and privacy. the fact is that without security and trust we will not see a significant shift towards commercial and financial transactions on the internet. this directive is not intended to regulate or replace the market in its entirety. it provides legal recognition for electronic signatures where currently only paper documents are recognised, thereby providing greater security in the market. it also ensures the security of the internal market for products and services related to electronic signatures. however, this initiative also has a considerable international dimension. the internet and electronic commerce are global in nature. this is why other international organisations such as the un and the oecd are becoming increasingly involved in the field of electronic signatures. almost all states in the united states have or are in the process of having legislation on electronic signatures. japan is also developing legislation in this area. a harmonised european legal framework would therefore strengthen europe's position at international level. this directive is also necessary to avoid divergent approaches in the laws of the member states, as has been mentioned. today, all member states agree on the importance of electronic signatures in ensuring security and trust in electronic communications. this is good news and we can reinforce it by avoiding obstacles to the free movement of electronic signatures in the internal market. as for the proposed amendments, the commission can accept all but one. amendment no 6 is a problem for us because, according to our interpretation, it is contrary to the treaty. it states that such a proposal must be submitted to the council. in this context, no mention is made of the european parliament. finally, i would like to reiterate that i am pleased with the high degree of consensus between the commission's and the european parliament's positions. it is in the interest of all of us to support rapid progress in this area. it is to this end that i would suggest to the european parliament that it reconsider amendment no 6 in order to avoid an unnecessary conciliation procedure. in this context, the treaty leaves no room for interpretation. thank you for your cooperation. i hope that this example of swift and consensual cooperation can be applied to many new initiatives in this area, already under discussion in parliament or to be discussed later this year or even next year.
- thank you, lieutenant liikanen. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0033/1999) by mr harbour, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 70/221/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to liquid fuel tanks and rear protective devices of motor vehicles and their trailers (8697/1999 - c5-0031/1999 - 1998/0071 (cod)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - (de) mr president, with all due respect to the rapporteurs, the committee on budgets should not expect the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to applaud it for the work it has done! the committee on budgets, like the council, has failed the court of justice of the european communities! i know that the law is often perceived as an obstacle to the political process. however, to disregard in such a way the work of the court of justice of the european communities in favour of european integration and the legal protection of individuals is scandalous! the question is what role the special committees can still play if the committee on budgets swept away all the carefully balanced and moderate proposals put on the table. what further role can the specialised committees play? i fear that legal protection is becoming increasingly restricted in this european union. the responsibility is obvious. we should not risk restricting legal protection within the european union, especially as we keep repeating that we want to create an area of freedom, security and justice.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, relations between the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on budgets have never been without tensions during the preparatory work for the budget. this is understandable: since the largest part of the budget is devoted to agriculture, this area is at the heart of the problem. that is why it is particularly gratifying to note that this time the cooperation has been much better than in the past. we owe a great deal to the chairman of the committee and in particular to the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, but also to the spokesmen of all the groups, i should add. we know, however, that not all the wishes of the committee on agriculture have been granted a majority today. however, we believe it is particularly important not to accept the council's proposals for a linear reduction and to provide for a moderate increase in veterinary and phytosanitary expenditure and improved marketing. veterinary and plant health expenditure is not just an agricultural issue, but also a matter of reasonable and preventive consumer protection. naturally, the commission is particularly interested in the new second pillar in the field of rural development. we cannot understand the council's restraint in this respect. we are pleased that the commission's letter of amendment supports parliament's approach. the multifunctional expenditure of agriculture on food, landscape conservation, nature protection and tourism as a future employer, a sector whose activity will grow rather than decline, is a major concern for the whole of parliament. i would ask the council to accept that in future expenditure in the agricultural field be modified within the various headings. this cannot mean, however, that we should go easy and think that we can simply draw funds for other policies through linear cuts in the agricultural sector, which includes not only expenditure for farmers but also for the whole of rural areas. it should be noted that in recent years parliament and the commission have become closer in this field. the council's lack of imagination so far must be replaced by more realistic considerations, also with regard to the rights which will now be vested in parliament, including in the budgetary field.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on fisheries has examined the figures in the budget relating to fisheries in detail. the discussion turned out to be lively and tense. many differences have emerged. first, there are differences in the fifg. secondly, differences in the support of the council and the member states for the common fisheries policy, particularly with regard to international fisheries agreements, such as the fisheries agreement with morocco. thirdly, differences have emerged in the relations between the eu and other international organisations. we ask the european parliament to at least defend the appropriations which were already allocated in the previous budgetary years to the common fisheries policy. we have tabled three amendments in the committee on budgets, on my initiative, all of which were finally accepted directly or indirectly by the committee on budgets. in particular, the committee on fisheries expresses its concern about line b2-901 concerning control and surveillance operations carried out by the member states, line b2-903 in support of the common fisheries policy and line b7-8000 concerning international fisheries agreements. fiscal policy has multiple implications for the following three central themes. first, there is structural policy. at the berlin summit, €161 million was allocated to the regions, excluding objective 1 regions. this is a very considerable sum. however, commitment and payment appropriations increased in 1998 and 1999 and are expected to increase further. secondly, the draft budget does not provide sufficient funds for the implementation of an effective control and surveillance policy. member states requested more funds for 1999 alone than were available in the eu budget. the committee on fisheries is therefore requesting additional appropriations of eur 2 million. in addition, it is understandable that the sustainable management of resources, the systematic collection of basic data and the deepening of the dialogue with the sector reassure us. this request has therefore also been budgeted heavily by the committee on fisheries. the third theme is obviously morocco. we welcome the fact that a negotiating mandate has finally been granted by the council. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the common fisheries policy - but to whom is this remark really addressed? - requires substantial support from the community. i do not mean just financial support. we have to face great challenges. we must all make it clear that the eu, as a fishing superpower, is prepared to defend an industry which affects a large number of regions, states and citizens in the union. the number and quality of jobs brings a high added value to the eu and also plays a decisive role in enlargement, as we all know.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an old chinese proverb so beautifully says, women make up half the sky, and it is quite normal that women in the european union should participate in the preparation of the union's budget in this proportion. perhaps this is why the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities is now the last to enter the committee circle. we have very few priorities in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. these are, on the one hand, actions designed to promote women specifically and, on the other hand, the integration of the gender dimension into all community policies. the fourth action programme on equal opportunities is coming to an end at the end of the year 2000 and i would remind mrs diamantopoulou of the promise she made in committee, namely the promise to put forward a proposal for the continuation of this programme as soon as possible so that the fifth action programme can succeed it without any problems. the daphne programme to combat violence against children, adolescents and women must pass second reading as soon as possible in order to ensure continuity with the period which is coming to an end. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities calls for the notion of health to be interpreted in a broad sense and understood as a state of physical, mental and social well-being. the community initiative now is coming to an end and that is why appropriations will have to be allocated, in the new community initiative equal, to the specific promotion of women. the labour market, training and continuing training are key sectors for the active promotion of women. supporting measures, such as support for dependants, also play an important role and help to simplify access to the labour market. unfortunately, specific promotion opportunities for women are still needed in the european union. the same applies to advertising and the information society. in this respect, particular importance should be attached to women living in the candidate countries. the european women's lobby, which defends the interests of women in europe, should also be given funding in the 2000 budget. europe is taking its responsibility in the field of development policy and that is why the appropriations must under no circumstances be reduced. it is appropriate to merge lines b7-631 and b7-6211 into one line. however, it must be provided with the appropriate appropriations. family planning, health care for mothers and children are important elements of population policy. women are a key factor in this respect and we must use them to lift developing countries out of poverty. the participation of women in social, economic and political life must be developed. through targeted promotion of women in demographic and development policy, we can contribute to the emergence of a stable social context, to structural change and to the development of new structures. the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities has only a few amendments and i would like to ask for your support.
- (de) mr president, first of all i would like to express my sincere thanks on behalf of my group to the two rapporteurs-general for the strategy and the sensible points they have made. it is in good conscience that parliament is speaking out in favour of a limited review of the financial perspective in a public debate on fiscal consolidation and austerity measures. we do so because in previous years we have repeatedly stated, with a sense of responsibility, that parliament is in a position to set the necessary european political priorities in an effort to achieve greater efficiency and transparency in the budgetary procedure. of course, this is not a question of financing new political requirements by simply increasing appropriations. on the other hand, the present situation clearly shows that some aspects of the berlin decision are not as wise as they were thought and lack future prospects and that improvements are therefore needed. i am addressing the council and the presidency of the council. it is not necessary to remind ourselves that we are responsible to the european taxpayers and that we are bound by budgetary discipline. i would rather see the council doing its job much better in the future. it is indeed scandalous that the council has recommended that parliament give the commission discharge for the 1996 and 1997 financial years. i would strongly recommend to the council that, since a large part of the community budget is implemented through the member states, it should ensure efficiency, transparency and sound implementation, so that the commission is not obliged to always use the imputation procedure in the future in the interests of sound budgetary management. if the council fulfils this part of its duty, we shall be happy to listen to its proposals for our behaviour in the budgetary procedure. i am very grateful to commissioner schreyer for comparing the figures. what was the content of the draft? what proposals has the council made ? how can we assess this in the light of the financial ceilings on which we have all agreed? we do not want to exhaust the margin of manoeuvre, which, taking account of the figure of 1.27% of the gdp of the member states, represents some 9 to 10 billion. however, i am very clear that there are commitments in progress with regard to developing countries, third countries, which cannot simply be subjected to a linear 10% reduction! it is an unimaginative and politically irresponsible attitude. this is purely accounting behaviour from which the council should finally get away! in this connection, i would like to say that it is not just a question of setting foreign policy priorities, such as the reconstruction of kosovo, but that in order to organise and implement them in a reasonable way, the council must agree with parliament on how we are going to organise aid and how the future agency for the reconstruction of kosovo should actually function. i think that the council must agree with parliament on this too. the rapporteur has rightly touched on the problem of technical assistance offices. we are prepared to give the commission the necessary appropriations for the administrative and management costs of all these projects if parliament is adequately involved in the reflections on the reform. i believe we can have a fruitful discussion on this. i would also like to mention something that mr perry has said: multiannual programmes such as socrates and life are really the kind of programmes that citizens expect from us and we should, in this area too, provide the quality and the funds needed for european development and the process of european integration. the commission has taken a first step towards parliament with mrs schreyer's explanations that we will try to achieve groupings, to use a reduced part of the flexibility reserve and, as far as possible, to modify the financial perspective. this is the first step. however, if it is a question of cuts, i ask the commission and the council to provide arguments for each item in order to determine whether the appropriations are really not being made available or whether parliament's priorities are being blocked for political reasons. that argument is in your hands. we are prepared to have many discussions. i think we have a lot of work to do between now and december and the second reading. parliament agrees that we need a limited review of the financial perspective, so that we do not cheat, as we did this year, by having to present several supplementary and amending budgets!
(de) mr president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by making a small correction to what mr böge said: i thank the three rapporteurs and not both of them. mr pittella also gave us an excellent report. i therefore thank the three rapporteurs for the really constructive collaboration they have shown throughout this year's budgetary procedure. i would also like to thank all those who, representing the various committees, have come to us with their requests and who, in their overwhelming majority, have shown an understanding that in a limited context, one can wish for a lot but not do everything. it is a question of financial means, of course limited financial means. they are because we gave our consent. however, these appropriations should reflect the tasks we have undertaken at european level. the budget of the european union for the financial year 2000 is special for several reasons. it was the old parliament which started the budget. a binding interinstitutional agreement, which we also voted for, was then concluded and had to be continued after the election of the new parliament. it is this interinstitutional agreement which imposes limits on us but which, at the same time, has opened up new possibilities for us; i'll get back to you. thirdly, the budget for 2000 is remarkable in that we are entering this year into the period of the next financial perspective which runs until 2006 and that important milestones for the years ahead should already be set. fourthly, the european union is faced with many new challenges after the signing of the treaty of amsterdam, for example in the fields of internal policy, the area of freedom, security and justice, the employment chapter, increased opportunities for health protection and consumer protection. however, undertaking additional tasks also means allocating the necessary funds, otherwise these are merely advertising effects which we raise as banners. the budget should not contain advertising effects. so we must set our priorities clearly and then act on them. we have done so in the past and we will do so in the future. i would like to say to the president-in-office of the council: it is obvious that these are men and women, taxpayers who have to contribute the sums that are distributed here. these are also the men and women who should be receiving the funds and for whom we are making policy. we do not see politics as a game between the commission, the council and parliament, but we do see politics as creating the best possible conditions for the european union to develop and for the men and women of our society to enjoy favourable opportunities. in the past, we have made sure that citizens know that we ensure careful management of our contributions. the 2000 budget is lower than the 1999 budget in terms of the evaluation of commitment appropriations. go to one of the member states and tell the minister of finance that he must present a budget which is less than the budget of the previous year. i'd like to see you there. you have to get there first. we do the same in parliament and when someone comes to this chamber and says: 'you are only asking for additional appropriations', it must be known. it's not. we handle the credits in a very precise way. since we work with and for citizens, category 4 is one of the special missions, namely foreign policy. the council has indeed intervened in this respect and stated: 'we want to finance an important future, or even present, mission which must be fulfilled in the coming years, namely to provide our assistance to the men and women of kosovo. for the kosovo funding, we are cutting all other items by 10%". mr böge even said that it lacked imagination; that's a fancy way of putting it. are you aware that we must reduce the appropriations allocated to these lines by 10%, for example the financial aid given to israel and the palestinian population, which therefore constitutes aid for the establishment of peace in that region? are you aware that we are obliged to reduce by 10% the funds allocated to programmes to help people and to combat aids, the scourge of the developing countries? are you aware that the appropriations for the fight against anti-personnel mines, which is a line in our budget, will have to be cut by 10%, that we have to cut the actions of non-governmental organizations in developing countries, such as those for street children in guatemala or other parts of the world, by 10%, because we do not want to be imaginative and we do not want to examine precisely where these appropriations should come from? that cannot be the policy we want to pursue. it's irresponsible to make linear cuts. that is why we will oppose it and exclude category 4 from the interinstitutional agreement. we will respect, although it is difficult, the other parts of the interinstitutional agreement. the other categories also pose problems, such as category 3, which contains the traditional essential elements of our policy: environmental policy, youth training policy, research, transeuropean networks, which offer us prospects for job creation and improving our competitiveness in a context of global competition. the funds are very meagre here too, because we keep describing new missions but we do not allocate the necessary funds. we are transferring tasks from the national to the european level, verbatim, but the necessary financial resources are not forthcoming. this policy is not serious. we need to discuss this. however, we will not seek to increase the appropriations allocated to this category. we have obtained, in the context of the interinstitutional agreement, that in future we can also exercise decisively our power of codecision in agricultural policy. we cannot just promote the manufacture of particular products, but we must support the development of rural areas. this is a very important area for us. let me conclude by addressing the staff policy. we have also acted responsibly in this area, as we have done in recent years. we have not planned any additional posts outside two central areas. olaf needs to be strengthened. the second part concerns veterinary protection and food control; we have recommended a very slight increase to five agents. we owe it to the citizens who demand that we make sure they eat healthy food. that is very briefly the essential elements. (the president cut the speaker off)
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i think we are facing a very difficult debate because there is a consensus in parliament - and my group supports it - to reject the 10% cuts in overall appropriations. we thank mr bourlanges for the preparatory work he has carried out, even if we believe that some points need to be corrected during the negotiations. as mr mulder has just said, we must critically examine the evaluation of expenditure on kosovo. our group also believes that there is a need for a critical review of the fisheries agreement. we must also make efforts to be more efficient and apply more ecological principles in these areas. it may be useful to carry out a critical examination of certain points, such as the export agreement with japan. however, we believe that the establishment of additional missions - and in this case many additional missions will be transferred to the european budget - must also imply that additional appropriations are allocated. that is why we need a critical examination of the financial perspective. we thank the commissioner for announcing this review. in any case, we are prepared to cooperate in this area in a very constructive way. we think that kosovo can certainly be financed with fresh money. however, we believe that the other areas - turkey, the fisheries agreement, etc. - should be financed within the budget constituted by the present evaluations. parliament has clearly shown during the debate that it is aware of taking on greater responsibility, not only for the actual commitment of appropriations but also for the expenditure of appropriations. it is not just a question of introducing new budget lines, of critically examining whether all budget lines can be filled effectively and correctly, but also of ensuring that programmes are properly implemented during the year. we also bear responsibility for it. i hope that these were not separate statements and that parliament will take responsibility over the next year to critically assess, in all committees, whether the appropriations committed are being properly implemented. i would like to briefly touch on one more subject which has been discussed here and which will prove to be important. we must improve the efficiency of parliament's own work in order to strengthen confidence in the european institutions. several key words have already been said in this connection. on the one hand, we must rapidly develop the status of members and assistants. however, it is also a question - and i am opposed to some of the speakers who have come before me - of developing a statute for european parties, because i believe that we need more transparency and more efficiency also in the funding of parties at european level. voters should know how much money is going into these sectors. this naturally requires that we clearly define what a european party is. what kind of work is done at european level? this also means establishing in a critical and very concrete way what the europe area means in this case. how far does the european union's coordination mission extend? the eu is the only one to be mentioned. the enlargement to the east is also worth discussing. the budget must also be allocated to this enlargement. however, we need more transparency in these areas. i would like to touch on one last point where i think parliament must also fulfil its duties: the management of buildings as a whole. i believe mistakes have been made in the past. we must ensure that in future money is used more efficiently and more effectively!
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the 2000 budget at first reading and this is the first budget under your chairmanship, commissioner schreyer. it is also the first budget to be implemented in accordance with the decisions taken in berlin in march on agenda 2000. i think that deserves a comment. firstly, because i expected more commitment from the commissioner in the budgetary procedure; there wasn't much to see or hear. secondly, because a review of the financial perspective must be discussed already in the first year of the implementation of the decisions on agenda 2000. i consider this last point to be quite remarkable because the wish list of foreign ministers, which has grown in recent years, has led to the fact that we are no longer able to follow up on the financial side. and today, we're getting the hot potatoes; it is up to us to find a solution in terms of budgetary technique. i think that is unacceptable and i say it clearly. the foreign ministers should first agree with their own finance ministers and then we will be able to apply this solution to the budget in a reasonable way. i would like to make a few comments on these so-called tight budgets. firstly, i do not think it is credible that the european parliament, on the one hand, is demanding the most rigorous examinations from the other institutions, in particular from the commission, that it expects the staff structure to be adapted to the new challenges and that we want to implement these measures through the european budget and, on the other hand, that we are not prepared to act appropriately in our own area, namely the parliamentary budget and administration. that is why we, as the group of the european people's party, have commissioned a study to organise the possibilities of self-management in the development of staff and assignment of tasks within our departments. i would like to emphasize that we have taken the initiative of finding a sound solution for the budgetary appropriations which we ourselves as a parliament have to manage - i am thinking in particular of transport costs. i look forward to the concrete proposals from the parliament's administration in the very near future, which will be dealt with appropriately by the bureau. we cannot accept that the epp initiative will ultimately lead to savings being made where it is least sensible to do so, where the real work is done, namely here in strasbourg. it is high time we increased the appropriations allocated to interpreters at the court of justice of the european communities. it is unacceptable that court proceedings are delayed by two or even three years just because of problems with interpreters. we have understood the task which parliament has to perform and we take responsibility for it. a solution was found within the committee of the regions so that their staffing problem could be solved internally. this task should not be carried out by the budgetary authorities, they can and do it themselves. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their collegial cooperation and i hope that we can adopt a serious budget at second reading.
- (de) madam commissioner, mr president, the current climate conference in bonn calls for more eu funding for renewable energy both in the field of research and in support of community programmes. the recent nuclear accidents in japan and south korea show once again how long a new energy policy has been delayed. as regards the appropriations allocated to euratom, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy calls for the european parliament to be consulted immediately. we cannot understand why our colleagues in the committee on budgets do not support this request, since they are themselves members of parliament. the sole declared objective of the budget lines in the trade area is to support exports and to create free market access. however, this so-called free market exists only for multinationals, because smes do not even have access to the information on the allocation of credits, or to the programmes themselves. in the last 20 years, latin american exports have increased by 300%, while local gdp has increased by only 3.3%. since the policy of economic liberalization has been implemented on a global scale, a massive redistribution of wealth from the poor to the rich has taken place, both within societies and between states. i'm taking the side of the opposing political direction. the result is that eu aid is an indirect subsidy, which is contrary to the free trade position. in the end, we are faced with one of the many inherent contradictions of wto policy.
(de) mr president, first of all i should like to make a remark: my work here in strasbourg has been made very difficult because, for the second time, the box containing my documents has not arrived at my office. i would like to thank all those who have taken part in the budgetary procedure for their work. they have had very little room for manoeuvre and must send a signal to the citizens. category 3, on internal policies, allows us to do this. the programmes for young people, socrates, culture, women and equal opportunities give us the opportunity to make clear to the citizens what we want. a mistake has been made in category 3: an amendment proposal has been adopted by a very small majority in the committee on budgets and can cause considerable damage if it is not corrected. the committee on women's rights has provided a commentary, together with a budget, in line a-3037 for the european women's lobby, as it did last year. however, the comment states that this line is open to all non-governmental organizations. let me remind you that we, as parliament, have supported this group of european women's organisations and have given it the task of implementing the beijing platform for action at the level of non-governmental organisations. i think it would be a disaster if every women's organisation could participate in this budget. i therefore ask all members to correct this amendment, to vote against amendment no 443 and in favour of the amendment proposed by the committee on women's rights. we have drawn up very balanced and very moderate amendments on the integration of the gender dimension in all community policies and the anchoring of equal opportunities in all european policies. i would ask the rapporteur in particular to take these aspects into account and to support the committee on women's rights.
- thank you very much, mr. rubig. we also thank you for coming to work in parliament on your country's national day.
- the commissioner agrees. so we can end this debate. the debate is closed. the vote on the budget will take place on thursday at 10 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 3.45 p.m. and resumed at 4.30 p.m.)
- my dear colleagues, in life, things do not always go as planned. mr. duisenberg should be here with us right now, but he's stuck in traffic. i therefore call the sitting to order for 15 minutes and we hope that he will be with us by then. if not, we shall unfortunately have to repeat the same procedure. it's not up to me but it's probably the highways that are to blame. i thank you for your understanding. (the sitting was suspended at 4.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.20 p.m.)
president of the economic and monetary affairs committee. - (de) mr president, our priority is to make the euro, after a successful launch earlier this year, a stable currency over time, to ensure that it constitutes an internationally recognised reserve currency and to ensure that citizens accept the euro. i am particularly pleased that the president has once again stressed today that the european central bank considers consumer protection to be an important task, an integral part of monetary union. the independence of the european central bank, but also its credibility and trustworthiness, are crucial to the objectives i have mentioned. in a democratic legal system, the institutional and political independence of an institution can only exist if democratic legitimacy is guaranteed. this principle applies to the transparency of decisions and the possibility of understanding those decisions. the european parliament has a central role to play in this respect and i think that the monetary dialogue, as established between this parliament and the european central bank, is a good start for the coming years in the euro area. i know how difficult it was - and the annual report also shows this - to set up the european central bank, the whole system and to achieve monetary union without any obstacles. i also think it is a good thing that the european central bank has improved its information policy. however, i do not think it is enough to assign to the european parliament, as a public institution, a secondary role in this information policy. it is important to understand the special role of the european parliament. i therefore believe that the information and transparency which the ecb provides to the european parliament can be significantly improved. i am not saying that the detailed minutes should necessarily be published, but it would be important to have a summary of the minutes containing the various arguments put forward so that we can understand how the european central bank weighs the different elements in its estimate of the risks of inflation and deflation. at the moment, it is not clear to us how such a weighting can be established and will be established beyond the evolution of the prices of goods and services, for example in the real estate and bond markets. in this respect, there is also uncertainty as to the reasons for the decision, as is always the case with forecasts and models. time should be allowed for the european central bank; it is a newborn who has only been in charge of monetary matters for ten months but he must continue in this direction. i am convinced that the trusting cooperation between the ecb and the european parliament also contributes to building greater security and confidence among the public. for the time being, speculation about the ecb's interest rate policy is going on. in this respect, i particularly welcome the decision taken by the ecb last thursday not to change interest rates within the euro area. this shows that the ecb is serious about pursuing other overall economic objectives, in particular employment, and we know that the improvement in the economic situation absolutely requires our continued support. i think that the fall in consumer prices which has already occurred and which we expect to continue in the areas of telecommunications, electricity and financial services, as a result of competition and market liberalisation, and the fall in oil prices, certainly played a part in the decisions taken last thursday. it should continue to be so. i am appalled by the strong criticism of the employment pact by the ecb. i call on the ecb to contribute constructively to the success of the growth and jobs pact and to state very clearly what role it wants to play in the macroeconomic dialogue, with a view to working together to establish a balanced policy mix. today monetary policy can no longer be solely responsible for price stability. budgetary policy can no longer be solely responsible for public finances and the social partners for a moderate wage policy. successful coordination is needed in the interests of the development of economic and monetary union and a monetary community with a view to creating more jobs.
- (de) mr president, i should like to address three critical questions concerning the first annual report of the european central bank: accountability, transparency and employment. firstly, the content and form of the report do not allow me to say with certainty that the european central bank is prepared to submit to the democratic control of the european parliament. this is reflected in the fact that the monetary dialogue between parliament and the ecb is reduced, on pages 95 and 96, to collaboration with other institutions. i think this is contrary to article 113 of the treaty which obliges the ecb to submit to parliament an annual report on its activities and monetary policy. this is because the ecb's accountability to the european parliament is described too vaguely in this article. that is why i support the request in the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the ecb be asked to take immediate action so that in future the special relationship with the european parliament established by the eu treaty is at least fully taken into account. the second point i would like to make is related to what i have just said: it is not acceptable that the european central bank does not provide any evidence to justify its monetary policy decisions. parliament is the place where the ecb must describe and justify its monetary policy decisions and, where appropriate, face criticism. otherwise parliament cannot even fulfil its duty of monitoring the bank's activities. it is well known that monetary policy is a highly political activity and this is precisely why we must demand a high level of transparency from the bank in its decision-making. thirdly - and i think this is a crucial point - there is a clear contradiction, mr duisenberg, with what you said earlier. i believe that the european central bank, through its monetary policy, must contribute to economic growth and job creation. it is unacceptable that the political objective of full employment should be abandoned de facto and that everything should be subordinated to monetary stability. i consider that this constitutes, as before, the decisive basis...
(de) mr president, mr duisenberg, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to say that i am delighted to be able to welcome mr duisenberg to this house. why is the debate we are having today so important? the european central bank is independent and my group has certainly put this principle forward in the strongest possible way. however, at the same time the european central bank must take decisions which affect all citizens. it is therefore of the utmost importance that it does not take refuge in an ivory tower but that it regularly gives an accounting to public opinion. it does so in a number of ways. i would also like to emphasize the special position of the european parliament in this respect. the treaties expressly assign to the european parliament the role of interlocutor of the european central bank, but not to the other institutions. the european parliament is a forum in which all of europe is truly involved in the debate; i would have liked to have had a wider participation in this debate, however, because i think it is of crucial importance. the european central bank is independent. it is the main responsible for price stability. in this connection, i would remind mrs randzio-plath that the treaty clearly states that the primary objective of the european central bank is price stability and that it can pursue other objectives only if this does not undermine price stability and that price stability itself - as the president has said - has positive social and economic consequences. i would like to say on behalf of my group that the european bank has done a remarkable job in the last year, since its creation. it has already taken very important decisions, for example in the field of price stability. this is of crucial importance for the long-term development of the debate on this issue. the european central bank, the governing council of the european central bank, has had its eye on the controversial decision on minimum reserves. in this respect, it has so far passed its test successfully. i would like to stress, however, that this took place in a context of economic boom. there have been some blurring of the lines, but overall we are in a period of positive economic developments. it will be much more difficult for the european central bank to take uncomfortable decisions, for example not to lower interest rates but to raise them when the economic situation becomes more difficult and threats to price stability arise. the european central bank, in its first year of existence, has generated confidence. however, in order to be able to cope with this type of situation, this confidence must be systematically strengthened over the next few years and, mr president, you can count on the support of my group. we are considering an amendment which calls for the votes of the members of the governing council of the european central bank to be published. i would like to make it very clear that my group will never vote in favour of such an amendment. why would you do that ? the central bank has people who are responsible for the stability of the currency and who make decisions as people. that is why we have not established a weighting of votes, as is the case in the council of ministers, because it has been said that it is people who have to make decisions. publishing the votes could lead to national debates about the behaviour of a particular member. that would be a negative thing for the european central bank and for all of us. the european central bank has done a good job, it has earned the trust of the citizens for the work it has done in recent months and that is what we will highlight in this resolution.
(de) mr president, i would like to ask mr nielson about the bridge he mentioned and said was still under discussion. does the report make any proposals as to the form this transition to development aid or other instruments such as phare or tacis should take, and has it been established whether the problems are with echo aid and its concept on the ground or with other forms of aid? could you be more specific about that?
- (de) madam president, i can only support what mr watson has said and say very clearly that despite the poor preparation due to the exclusion of parliament by the finnish presidency of the council and the absence of any information, the outcome of this summit must nevertheless be welcomed. in this respect, parliament must of course thank commissioner vitorino, whose contribution to this result has been decisive. i think that the finnish presidency should learn from this: when we are prepared to cooperate, we can achieve good results. we have seen this when we have seen the commission take action and save many things that could have been saved. mrs boumediene-thiery, a member of my group, has already said all this, but i would just like to add that we have a good result now. there are still some unresolved issues and the next two years will be decisive because in the end, a lot of things have to be done in that time. i hope that the next presidencies will inform and support the commission and parliament so that we can finally achieve this good result.
- (de) madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, tampere was an important step forward and i think that the initiatives aimed at creating a citizens' europe in the field of justice and home affairs are a great step forward. however, you will find that when it comes to practical implementation, you will only achieve the objectives if you use the possibilities offered by the amsterdam treaty and also submit these areas to majority decision. that is why it might be appropriate to take up this subject again in the preamble to the helsinki intergovernmental conference, since this decision can be taken by a simple council decision without an intergovernmental conference being convened. the task of justice and home affairs policy is twofold: to ensure the security of citizens against crime but also against the abuses of the state. in a liberal society, both of these things are the responsibility of justice and home affairs policy. it is therefore also linked to the declarations made in tampere to draw up a charter of fundamental rights. i would like to thank the finnish presidency for initiating this procedure, which must now be given a new impetus and give rise to obligations for us and rights for the citizens. the question here is not one of setting up a new body to review national catalogues of fundamental rights but a legitimate right which concerns the action of the european institutions and legislation relating to citizens. i think that is what we should be aiming at in the long term. at the same time, i would ask the council presidency, in accordance with the draft, to give the commission the opportunity to table a proposal for a sensible reform of the working methods in preparation for the intergovernmental conference. that would be a much more effective way of getting things done. mr president-in-office of the council, allow me to make one final comment on the pack report which is being put to the vote today. the european parliament has no institutional aims in this area. it would only show an effective attitude and there is broad agreement on this. in this context, and in the light of the european council decision on the agency's powers, agreements should be reached which ultimately lead to reconciliation throughout the balkans and require accession to the stability pact. the advisory role of the management committee should be emphasized in decisions concerning the various reconstruction projects. in this respect, there is certainly a broad consensus on the need to achieve a reasonable division of labour between pristina and thessaloniki in order to achieve the greatest possible efficiency. if you could take a stand on this, it would help us make our decision at noon.
- (de) mr president, on 3 april last year this house adopted by a large majority my report on eastern enlargement and internal security. i thank him for this and remind him that it was decided at that time to establish a european academy for internal security. i am glad and pleased that the council has implemented this decision in tampere by creating a european police academy. i am equally pleased that mr vitorino said on monday in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs that the commission would shortly present a study on the practical implementation of this project, because i believe that if our police could benefit from common training in the european spirit and that, as the decision provides, the police services of the candidate countries could be involved from the outset - which also refers to the proposal of this house - we would take an important and concrete step towards a europe of justice and internal security. i would be delighted if this academy could be established in the border area between the eu and the candidate countries, for example in eastern bavaria. there are already many practical forms of police cooperation which could benefit from this project. i would like to make a second point. i think that the council has done well in laying the foundations for a common policy on asylum and refugees, but unlike some of my colleagues, i am not angry that we still have to take some steps in this direction because some very essential components are still missing. i would first of all like to criticise the fact that we have still not reached a distribution of the burden and that it even seems to have been postponed until the distant future. i am of the opinion, however, that a common policy on asylum and refugees without burden-sharing could be compared to a large roof supported by a few load-bearing walls. it seems to me unthinkable to envisage a common asylum policy without a firm distribution key. so we should use the time we have and keep working at it.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we can welcome the outcome of the tampere summit, we can accept it or we can consider it insufficient. whatever we may think of this result, the tampere summit was and is an important summit. it is important because it is a step towards a european legal area. this is the right direction. but if we consider the substantial objective of this common legal area, tampere will have been only a small step on a long road. european citizens expect more. they expect us to commit ourselves more openly and, above all, more resolutely and more rapidly to this road. i'm convinced they have the right. the citizens of europe can demand that the law affords them the same security and protection in each of the member states of the european union. they are entitled to expect that they will not be subject to a different and foreign legal system when they are in a neighbouring country. the summits, more or less solemn, are not enough to meet this legitimate expectation. just as peace cannot be achieved by not resorting to arms, so the creation of a european legal area cannot be achieved by the demonstration of the good will of a handful of governments. the desire for judicial cooperation must be accompanied by sound rules for cooperation. and the council and the governments cannot create these rules on their own. parliament must help them to do so. the council must know that in the interests of the citizens whom we represent as members of parliament, we are prepared to do so and will do so. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. - (fi) mr president, i thank the members for their very practical speeches. i would like to take your valuable time to make a few general comments, then i will answer in detail, and finally i will talk about follow-up, implementation and monitoring. i think the last speech, by mrs palacio vallelersundi, was very important, because it highlighted the fact that we need to set ourselves more ambitious objectives. on the other hand, mr holmes, in his speech, expressed concern that progress was being made too quickly in the harmonisation of legislation and administrative practices. the problem in tampere was that justice and home affairs are, at bottom, a very conservative field. on the one hand, there are those who are concerned that national practices are being changed too quickly. on the other hand, we really need to strengthen police cooperation and also to bring legislation closer together, for example in the fight against crime. for example, we do not have a common definition of organised crime in our legislation. the next step is the one of the single market method: we will look at the problems in a pragmatic way to know how to move forward. mutual recognition of judicial decisions is one of the principles of action; the other principle of action is that we analyse the need for harmonisation in legislation. i will first speak about eurojust and the european public prosecutor. eurojust's main objective is not only to improve coordination between national prosecuting authorities, but also to be able to order investigations and operate within joint investigation teams. the idea of a prosecutor to protect the interests of the community was a late one and originated with the commission. this is a slightly different question, since it specifically concerns offences committed for economic gain within the community. this theme is quite closely related to the issues that were dealt with last spring, in particular, but we can certainly come back to it. as regards europol, some speakers here expressed concerns about the monitoring of europol. these are, in my view, quite legitimate concerns, because with the extension of europol's mandate or powers, we will have to be vigilant. however, the basic model and nature of europol's activities remained unchanged in tampere. europol or its officials have not been given autonomous powers, but will in future act in close cooperation with the member states, to whom they will provide assistance and support. the developments in this area should be closely monitored. the speakers drew attention to the status of third-country nationals. at tampere, the phrase 'rights and obligations comparable to those of citizens of the european union' was used, so it is a question of going as far as possible in the direction of civil rights, but one may not be so willing to grant, for example, the right to vote in parliamentary elections. on the other hand, the right to vote in local elections is a good example of what would be a desirable european practice. the question of a fund for refugees, of a sharing of responsibility, has been raised, and we have decided to return to the question of a financial reserve. we need to clarify our ideas about what we're looking for. what is it ? in the event of a sudden influx of refugees seeking temporary protection, it should be possible to provide assistance to the countries affected by such an influx. this is a legitimate demand and economic aid can also be considered, but it still requires preparation. as far as burden-sharing is concerned, it is clear that we saw in kosovo that we were not prepared. we should be able to agree on methods of achieving solidarity between member states. while there is no need to go as far as an automatic quota system, solidarity still requires more appropriate practices. of course, this must be done in cooperation with the high commissioner for refugees, as was the case in kosovo. in sum, the capacity of the international community to act in these situations should be improved. i would like to return to the question of organised crime raised by mr di lello finuoli. in fact, objectives with very wide implications were adopted in tampere; money laundering has been included in europol's remit. in my view, the action is considerably strengthened now that the prosecuting authorities are also involved. i now turn to some of the other issues that have been raised here. first of all, the charter of fundamental rights: is it a political document or a draft of a new constitution? as president of the council, we will move the matter forward on the basis of what was decided in cologne, in other words: it is a political declaration, but that does not prevent us from at some point having to ask ourselves whether the european union needs some kind of constitution in which fundamental rights should be enshrined. it's about the process. decisions were taken in tampere on the powers and composition of the drafting body of the charter, which is to meet for the first time before the end of the finnish presidency. i hope that this working party will have an authoritative chairman. the igc was discussed in mr brok's speech, amongst others. i would like to emphasize that this is the presidency's business. we have been instructed to do so by the cologne summit. of course, we are proceeding on the basis of the commission's proposal, but i would like to remind the european parliament that there is also a body, the council, which has a presidency. mr brok referred to the situation in kosovo and the stability pact; we talked about it at the dinner in tampere. the finnish president, mr martti ahtisaari, spoke on the subject and said that he felt it was necessary for mr prodi, the president of the commission, mr solana, the high representative, and mr hombach, the representative for the balkans, to work together more effectively now, so that the implementation of the stability pact could be guaranteed and, of course, progress could be made on practical issues, such as cooperation between pristina and thessaloniki. in short, the presidency is following this matter very closely. as regards the obnova regulation, the council will carefully examine the european parliament's amendment proposals. we discussed this matter with mrs fontaine this morning. a solution is expected to be found once parliament has approved its opinion, and the council will start discussing ways of taking the european parliament's amendments into account in the final drafting of the obnova decision later this week. i hope that this will also be one of the issues of the finnish presidency, the solution of which means that we will somehow succeed in putting an end to this complicated situation of institutions, and that is what the citizens really expect. as regards the way in which the european parliament is involved in decision-making and the progress made in this area, i take note of the criticism as the representative of the country holding the presidency of the council. i would point out, however, that in september three of our ministers were here to report to the plenary in connection with the tampere summit, the minister for home affairs, the minister for justice and the minister for foreign affairs, with a fourth person, our representative in coreper. as far as we know, all the information available to governments was also available to parliament. in general, the fact that the tampere summit produced results is due to the fact that we were transparent and that we did not, for example, bring something unforeseen to the governments or parliament at the last moment. everything we needed to know was available, including our draft agenda. the european parliament will now be involved in decision-making - this is provided for in the amsterdam treaty. the tampere conclusions further improve the practical possibilities for the european parliament to participate and exercise control. the tampere conclusions commit the highest political level to ensuring the necessary transparency and to ensuring that the european parliament is regularly informed. as for me, i have already told the ministers that if there is anything to be desired, they should come here. the concrete and operational nature of the tampere conclusions gives parliament greater opportunities to participate in the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. in other words, the objectives and means are now more clearly defined and it is easier to take part in their achievement. the adoption of this proposal provides an important instrument for this purpose. i thank mr suominen for his terminological remarks, so we need a balanced scorecard. it will also facilitate the work of the european parliament. as regards transparency and openness, i would like to point out that a fundamental amendment has been made to the treaty of amsterdam, on a proposal from finland. until now, the principle in the european union was that documents were not public in general, but there were exceptions. we had proposed that the reverse principle be adopted, i.e. that documents are public, but that there may be exceptions. what is needed now is for all the institutions to put this principle into practice in the context of their responsibilities and for the commission to actually come forward with proposals for texts on these issues. finally, i would like to speak about the implementation mentioned by mr suominen and others. the justice and home affairs council will start implementing the tampere results on friday this week. the presidency has drawn up a kind of work programme for this meeting, which includes all the measures involved in the tampere conclusions, in other words: what must be done, by whom and when. i hope that when we have such a working method in place, it will also make the work of the european parliament easier. i would like to thank the president, the conference of presidents and the speakers for their kind words, but also for the criticisms, because we must not simply be satisfied with the results of the tampere summit, we must really take the decisions taken there seriously and get to work.
commission. - mr president, i do not consider that your warning infringes my fundamental right to speak, i can assure you of that. i would simply like to thank you on behalf of the commission for all the contributions to this debate. i would like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially mrs palacio, that the commission is fully aware of its responsibility in implementing the tampere conclusions. i would like to stress that the commission could not have fulfilled its role without the support of the finnish presidency, and especially of prime minister lipponen, whom i would like to thank once again for his cooperation and work for the success of tampere, and the support, always critical and vigilant, of the european parliament. the commission is counting on this critical and vigilant support from the european parliament to prepare the scoreboard. the scoreboard is not only a tool for legislative programming, it is also a tool for strengthening the transparency and accountability of all the european institutions vis-à-vis citizens, because it is the citizens who are the masters of the area of freedom, security and justice. it is not just a scoreboard, it is also an instrument for evaluating the concrete results achieved as the tampere conclusions are applied in practice. progress will be made not only by the council, the commission and the european parliament but also by the member states insofar as certain tasks of the scoreboard will be entrusted to them, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. finally, mr president, i would like to stress the importance for the commission of the decisions on the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights which were taken in tampere and will be followed up in helsinki. i intend to consider as the political and philosophical basis of the area of freedom, security and justice all questions relating not only to the fundamental rights of citizens of the member states of the union but also to the rights of third-country nationals legally and permanently resident in the territory of the union. the rights relating to the fight against discrimination, based on article 13 of the treaty, will be discussed during the debate on the charter of fundamental rights. on this occasion, a clear signal must be given that the process of drawing up the charter and the union's intergovernmental conference, which will take place in parallel, express two converging dynamics, with a view to securing the conditions for enlargement and strengthening the foundations of the rule of law in our union of law. before i give the floor to my colleague, michel barnier, who will be presenting the objectives of the intergovernmental conference, i would like to thank parliament once again for the support it has given to the commission in this project, the tampere project, the spirit of tampere, the letter of tampere, but above all the project of the citizens of our common union. (applause from the left)
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are now having has both a great interest and a limit for the commission, which i have the honour to represent. the limit that everyone will understand and respect is that at the moment we are speaking, neither the commission nor the european parliament have set out in precise and detailed terms their position and proposals for the next institutional negotiation which will open early next year. so today - and this is already a lot - we are going to have to check or measure the state of mind in which you and we are going to approach this negotiation. i will therefore say to you, ladies and gentlemen, or rather confirm to you, the spirit of president prodi and the college of commissioners, and i will listen very carefully to what you say on behalf of your political groups or in your personal capacity. ladies and gentlemen, by asking three respected and experienced personalities to think freely and express their ideas, the commission wanted to provoke and enlighten the debate without delay. in doing so, i am sure we are playing our part, in the spirit of the very first paragraph of article 48 of the treaty on european union. this first objective is achieved. the debate is now open. it must take place here, it must take place in the member states, in the national parliaments. i will contribute to this with all those who are interested in european construction - and there are more of them than we think - as close as possible to the citizens. i would like to express our gratitude to the prime minister, mr dehaene, to president von weizsäcker and to lord simon for the quality of their contributions, and i would also like to thank you here for your welcome and for the attention you have paid to their report, particularly in your committee on constitutional affairs, chaired by mr napolitano. the dehaene report, ladies and gentlemen, has the first merit of setting out the issues at stake and of giving the reform of the institutions a real political perspective. i'll be back in a minute. we can learn a number of lessons from this now: firstly, on the timetable; secondly, on the scope of the reforms which must be achieved and, finally, on how to prepare for this negotiation. firstly, as regards the timetable, this reform, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced, is the last opportunity for real reform before the great enlargement of the union, before the reunification of the european states and peoples in a great political and economic community. this prospect of great enlargement is no longer hypothetical, it is not distant. we even decided on 13 october last at the college to prepare for it with the same seriousness, but more quickly. that is why this intergovernmental conference must be effectively completed before the end of the year 2000. this shorter deadline forces us to succeed. but, ladies and gentlemen, does this delay condemn us or does it condemn us to a mini-intergovernmental conference? we don't think he did. this reform, which everyone knows deep down that it is necessary, is not only and not primarily a matter of time, but is primarily a matter of political will, of being clear about our own current functioning and its shortcomings; it is a matter of courage, of the collective courage we will have, or will not have, to give priority to the union this time, to give priority to a long-term vision, which, we know very well, however difficult it may be, goes beyond prudence and immediate interests. given the delays in negotiations, delays in ratification by each member state, this is the time to want and achieve real reform. ladies and gentlemen, i am not talking about a definitive reform of the european institutions, but a reform strong enough to avoid the institutions being blocked or suffocated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is a mistake to believe - and i say this very strongly - that we can do later, at 18, 20 or 27, the reforms that we could not do in amsterdam or that we would not have wanted to do now. we have spoken about the scope of this reform, the level of ambition for this intergovernmental conference, and this is the commission's spirit. this is not surprising to anyone, ladies and gentlemen, because the great enlargement project, as i said a few moments ago, will be faster and more extensive than we imagined in amsterdam. i repeat: the commission and the european parliament are playing their part in wanting to make this conference a success and in recommending that all the necessary reforms be made now so that our union can accommodate a large number of states. it is not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of challenging the conclusions of cologne. the first obligation of this intergovernmental conference will be to deal - and to deal well - with the issues left on the table in amsterdam; i would like to stress that we must treat them with ambition because it is true, let me say from experience, that we can treat these three subjects with more or less ambition. these issues - the number of commissioners in an enlarged union, the new weighting of votes, the scope of the qualified majority - are all extremely difficult but necessary issues. our feeling, let me tell you, is that it will be less difficult to deal with them if they are inserted into a political perspective. that is why we find the list of questions in the dehaene report acceptable. none of the ideas advanced can be considered superfluous. it is not superfluous to work on a reorganisation of the treaty to make it more readable, more accessible to citizens and to imagine one day an easier modification of common policies, in opposition to the fundamental principles of the union. it is not superfluous to seek to improve the system of enhanced cooperation, without, however, and i am being formal, taking the slightest risk of 'dismantling' the community acquis. it is not too much to hope that the new treaty will be able to draw, by the end of 2000, the institutional consequences of the decisions which could be taken by then, in the spirit of cologne, for the security and defence of the european continent. it is not superfluous, ladies and gentlemen, to work on other institutional issues which will arise with enlargement. for example, the legal personality of the union. for example, the functioning of the court of justice, or better european action to combat fraud. i say this in the wake of the tampere council, which you have just discussed with my colleague and friend vitorino. on all these subjects, and perhaps on a few others, the commission will listen with interest to your reactions and suggestions. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a word on the preparations for the negotiations. the intentions of the portuguese and then the french presidencies, the intentions of the finnish presidency before helsinki, are essential if the intergovernmental conference is to be set up on a sound basis and, let me say, as early as possible at the beginning of the year 2000. we are preparing ourselves seriously, and that is the least we can expect from the commission. we shall be debating in the college, as from 10 november, the form and orientations of our formal report which will be made public at the start of these negotiations. in any event, ladies and gentlemen, this formal report will be a comprehensive and strong political document, constructed and structured to be useful to the negotiation, to facilitate it and, we hope, to accelerate it. i would also like to say, recalling the quality of the speeches made by the two representatives of the european parliament, elisabeth guigou and elmar brok, throughout the period leading up to amsterdam, that i think it would be useful for all of us if your assembly could make its voice heard and be associated in better conditions with the negotiations which are about to begin. ladies and gentlemen, i will end by saying this. we are convinced that there is a place and a way between prudence and recklessness, between realism and utopia for a genuine reform of our institutions, for a more efficient and more democratic functioning of the union, not to delay enlargement but to make it happen. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all the group of the european people's party and the european democrats would like to thank jean-luc dehaene, richard von weizsäcker and lord simon for this ambitious, courageous and yet realistic report, which is also forward-looking. last week our group debated with jean-luc dehaene. commissioner barnier was present and i would like to say to you, commissioner, that we are fully confident in the quality of your contribution to the commission's work to ensure a bright future for the european union and we assure you of our support to all of you along the way. the decision to conduct accession negotiations with six additional states will be taken in helsinki. so we are negotiating with 12 states and it is very likely that more than five states will join the european union in the first wave. it is therefore unrealistic to limit the amsterdam protocol to three themes: we should go further. that is why the group of the european people's party and the european democrats says that it wants more than what amsterdam is proposing, we want 'amsterdam plus', we want a fundamental reform of the european union so that it is ready for enlargement, which is a high priority for us. (applause) i would like to thank the core of this is certainly qualified majority decision-making in the council and we are in favour of qualified majority decision-making becoming the basic procedure for decision-making in the council and of the european parliament being given an equivalent legislative role and co-decision in all matters of majority decision-making - and this also, from now on, in matters of agricultural policy. we understand, although this is still to be discussed, that each country is represented in the commission and that a new balance needs to be struck in the council of ministers. the double majority is an instrument; there's more. but of course democracy must be reflected in the new vote counting in the council. i would also like to say, however, that there is a dimension which goes beyond all legal procedures. and if the representatives of some large member states are currently showing a certain arrogance, a certain arrogance towards the smaller member states, we reject this and say that all the member states of the european union are contributing and must be involved. in this respect, the larger member states should also acknowledge that the presidency of some small countries has proved more fruitful, effective and committed than that of some large member states. (applause) we welcome the proposal of the group of wise men to draw up a basic treaty. i am particularly pleased with jacques santer's satisfaction on this point because he is an example of the efficiency of a small member state, in this case luxembourg. we stress that the working party was right - and i think it is a brilliant idea - to propose the drawing up of a basic and an enlarged treaty. the treaty would involve all the member states and their parliaments in the event of reform, and that is a good thing. as far as the enlarged treaty is concerned, the decision could be left to the council of ministers and the european parliament. this creates flexibility and would allow us to meet the challenges that will arise. mr barnier spoke of the legal personality of the european union. the european union is currently an empty shell, a nonentity, which cannot even buy a house, let alone be represented in an international organization. we must do something about it if the european union is to gain weight in the world. we must also act in the fields of foreign, security and defence policy. just last week, the institute for strategic studies in london said that the europeans were incapable of acting. this is not only due to the institution but also to the willingness of the member states to provide our armed forces with the necessary logistics and information. we expect the necessary initiatives to be taken by the new high representative of the european union, mr javier solana, in agreement with mr patten. we also need a great debate on the geographical extension of the european union, on its content, and we call on the council of ministers and those who represent it in this house to have the courage to commit europe to a positive future because this is the stability, peace and democracy of our continent in the 21st century. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, president prodi was quite right in mentioning to this house a historic mistake in the event that the intergovernmental conference had been limited to the famous leftovers of amsterdam. no, what the citizens are really looking for is genuine democracy, transparency and effective decision-making. the most important thing is to have the courage to undertake a critical examination of the policies pursued by the union so far. a europe of social justice is more relevant than ever. we need a reform of the union so that the fight against mass unemployment and poverty is finally at the heart of the policy. to this end, we should also have the courage to amend article 4 of the ec treaty, which, in keeping with the neoliberal tradition, defines the union as an open market economy with free competition. this also applies to article 105 of the ec treaty, which contractually calls on the ecb to promote growth and employment through its monetary policy. citizens must be involved in the debate on the aims and content of the reform. they must be able to give their opinion on the outcome of the intergovernmental conference by means of a referendum. i have read with interest the proposals by mr dehaene, mr von weizsäcker and mr simon. i personally think that some of them are quite worthy of reflection, such as those relating to the simplification of the treaties or the proposal to make qualified majority voting in the council and co-decision in parliament a general rule. as a member of parliament from a large member state, however, i attach the greatest importance to the impossibility of reducing the rights of smaller member states. in conclusion, however, i should like to make the following point very clear: my group unequivocally rejects the integration of weu into the union. we want a europe of solidarity and civility. we do not want a military union which in the future will intervene in international politics armed to the teeth and acting like a european gendarme.
- (de) mr president, i see a great step forward in the report by the wise men and i fully agree with commissioner barnier: fundamental reforms of the union must be carried out now and cannot be postponed after enlargement. it would be a grave and fatal mistake, because twenty or twenty-five states would not be able to solve what fifteen states are unable to solve together. this is our last chance to reform the union so that it works, is understood by citizens and is able to enlarge. i welcome the revision of the treaties. no citizen understands the maastricht treaty or the amsterdam treaty. the reading of these texts is beyond the powers of any citizen of the union. we must be able to divide these texts between their genuinely constitutional elements and the other, more operational ones. these are two things that must be distinguished, as is the case in our basic laws or our constitutions in the member states. a word on institutional reform. the dehaene group has focused heavily on reforming the commission. i think the council is at the heart of the reforms. after completing what is being undertaken, the commission will function. parliament has been reformed and is functioning. the institution that is not working is the council. the institution that is blocking the union is the council. that is why we will also concentrate in parliament on formulating demands for the reform of the council. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. commissioner barnier, i hope that the commission will be able to put forward a concrete proposal for amending the treaties which we can then debate.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, we heard this morning during the debate on the tampere summit that the council presidency had finally agreed to take formal note of our report and to give serious consideration to the requirements it contains. whatever that means, i take it seriously and i hope that she will be involved in the debate from friday onwards so that we have a functioning agency in thessaloniki and a stability pact and that our proposals for the functioning of the agency in kosovo are taken seriously. before this debate, i now want to ask the new commission, since it has not yet had the opportunity, to state parliament's position on this matter. i would like to ask you to give the floor to chris patten. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - i welcome the opportunity to comment on parliament's amendments. perhaps i can take this opportunity to pay tribute to the honourable member and his colleagues who have shown such interest in this extremely important subject. before i explain the commission's position on the amendments voted by parliament on 16 september, i hope you will allow me to emphasize that the commission has tried to examine parliament's suggestions in a spirit similar to that which i am sure animated parliament when it voted them: how can we best deploy european efforts on the ground, in kosovo and in the region as a whole? i am going to kosovo tomorrow with mr javier solana to get my own idea of our work and i will take advantage of the views of parliament to support my strong conviction that the agency must be set up and operational as quickly as possible. this is the best way to reinforce the great efforts already made by mr franco and his team. let me explain our position on the various amendments point by point. the commission can accept the amendments on the substance, with the possibility of reformulating some of them, concerning accompanying measures, the participation of local communities in reconstruction, coordination with non-governmental organizations, consultation of parliament before the agency extends its activities to other regions of the federal republic of yugoslavia and, of course, budgetary transparency. the amendments in question are amendments nos 1, 2, 4, 9, 15 and the second part of amendment no 24. some amendments - 7, 8, 10, 11, 17, 25 and 26 - deal with issues already addressed in the current version of the proposal. we cannot, however, agree with parliament on the following points: the merging of humanitarian aid and reconstruction assistance within one body, the separation of the agency's revenue and the appropriations allocated to programmes, the exclusion from the agency's budget of contributions from other sources, the approval of the recruitment plan by the budgetary authority and the publication of a report on the possible dissolution of the agency after a period of 24 months. this covers amendments nos 5 and 23, the first part of amendment no 24 and amendments nos 27 and 28. i hope that our position on these points will not raise too many difficulties. i am aware that for parliament the main issues are elsewhere. i am of course aware of the specific importance which parliament attaches to two particular issues: the first concerns the establishment of the agency's headquarters in thessaloniki and its operational centre in pristina, the extension of its mandate to the whole of the western balkans and the development of its activities in the framework of the stability pact. this is the subject of amendments nos 3 and 18. in essence, our view is that the immediate aim of the agency is the reconstruction of kosovo and then, when conditions allow, of other parts of the federal republic of yugoslavia. it is an instrument of the european union and must preserve its autonomy of action. its headquarters can only be established in thessaloniki as long as its operational centre in pristina retains its own autonomy. the commission believes that a compromise could be reached which would take account of parliament's quite understandable concerns in the following way. first, the headquarters of the agency would be located in thessaloniki and a joint declaration would list the general services departments to be located there. secondly, another joint declaration would lay down the terms of coordination with the stability pact while safeguarding - and i stress this - the independence of the agency. thirdly, the commission would undertake to publish an evaluation report next year on the potential extension of the agency's activities to other balkan countries, under a new regulation. the second theme which has given rise to a number of amendments is the desire to place the agency under the sole and direct responsibility of the commission, which would appoint its director. in addition, independent experts appointed by the commission would replace the representatives of the member states on the management board. the management committee would be replaced by an advisory committee. this is what amendments nos 6, 12, 14, 16, 19 and 22 propose. the commission is of the opinion that the presence of the member states on the management board would be overall favourable to the agency and would facilitate the coordination of the reconstruction activities undertaken by the member states and the community. the commission would like to emphasize that this proposal is based on the standard model used for all european agencies, although the differences with the agency in question are notorious. this model shall include the representation of the member states on the management board and specific rules regarding the chain of responsibility. the management committee shall be constituted in accordance with the existing regulations. i do not want to conclude our plea in this way, however. the commission considers that a compromise which takes account of parliament's main concerns could be reached in the following way. first, the board of directors could be given an advisory role on certain issues, including project selection and implementation, instead of decision-making powers. secondly, in accordance with the parliament's proposal, the commission could be given the task of appointing the director of the agency. so what will be the next phase of events? i think that things are quite simple and i welcome what prime minister lipponen said earlier in reply to a question from a member. i shall pass these proposals on to the council and try to persuade it to accept what i consider to be an intelligent compromise, and one which i believe is acceptable to all. what we want, in short, is to proceed with the greatest competence and the greatest speed in this extremely difficult task which we have to do in kosovo. we all owe it to our team in kosovo. we owe it to the people of kosovo and i really do not think we should indulge in political arguments on a subject of such importance. i hope that parliament will see that we have made every possible effort to reach a compromise solution on this extremely important matter and that we will be able to work with the council in a way that parliament will approve. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, with regard to amendment no 1, i would like to draw attention to a linguistic inaccuracy which is not unimportant and which deserves to be recorded in the minutes. the second sentence of recital 16 in the german version states that 'a regulatory framework is not necessary for signatures used exclusively inside closed systems'. the word 'closed' should be deleted. this is a clerical error. later in the same sentence, the same word is used for "a limited number". the wording should be 'defined' and not 'restricted'; a 'defined number' in english is 'defined'. i would also like to point out that i would ask you not to accept amendment no 6 because otherwise this important directive would not come into force.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think the previous speaker is right about one thing. if the market were really able to regulate itself, we would not be talking about michelin today. mr pronk, it is a monumental mistake to think that this case is not the responsibility of this house. a few years ago we also spoke about renault in this house and rightly so. 7 500 jobs are lost, and this is a particularly bad record for a company. secondly, we must talk about it because workers expect us, the european union, to control globalisation and to regulate the necessary modernisation of companies and their adaptation to markets in a smart, that is to say socially sustainable, way. the european union has some directives for this purpose, but they are applied with too much caution. it seems to me that it is symptomatic of the policy pursued by michelin that it does not set up a european works council until the end of this year. economic change will continue in the eu, but for us social democrats it is self-evident that we must involve workers and their trade unions in this process, inform them in time and seriously consider their proposals. if you, commissioner, were to come and strengthen the eu's instruments in this area, we would certainly give you our support. i would like to thank the michelin workers who are here today. i would like the same commitment from the owners of the company. a rise in profits of over 17% in the first half of 1999 alone is truly remarkable, but these profits should be reinvested by companies in new products, in new production methods that respect the environment and, above all, in the training of workers. this would contribute to social peace and the stock markets would then also have every reason to see their surplus value increase.
mr president, i would like to emphasize the terms of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by four groups on the restructuring of companies which we have discussed. european global players have no choice but to face competition in global markets. the epp group believes, however, that this is to avoid any social division. this is not a completely new phenomenon. when i first entered this parliament ten years ago, the works councils of a clothing factory in my constituency came to me. their company had recently been bought by a large french electricity group. the workers initially hoped for greater job security but had by chance learned that the group's remote headquarters had been bought up within three months before the intention to close the factory. this is the weak point that the directive on european works councils is addressing. it is a widespread success. we should also talk about this success and convey to this house this positive message: in the last few years 600 european works councils have been set up. however, timely information is still often lacking. in this respect, madam commissioner, an amendment to the directive is entirely appropriate. finally, we must insist that all companies and groups fulfil the legal obligations they have now accepted in terms of information and consultation and that failure to comply with these obligations is not without consequences. i would like to end by quoting the words of the christian-democratic minister for employment, under whose presidency the directive on european works councils was adopted. lack of information leads to insecurity, mistrust and ultimately fear. information and consultation imply transparency which builds trust and avoids friction within european companies. both employers and employees benefit.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner patten, i would like to take up for myself the remarks made by president clinton in characterizing the behaviour of the us senate. he called it irresponsible. this irresponsibility has dealt a severe blow to international efforts to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons and has plunged nuclear disarmament into a serious crisis. it is therefore all the more important to me that the eu takes the initiative in this area. i welcome the initiative taken by president chirac, federal chancellor gerhard schröder and prime minister tony blair to send an open letter to the american public in favour of ratifying the ctbt. it wasn't enough. we all know that. so we have to do more. we must be concrete and we must take action. i am a little disappointed, mr president-in-office, that you have told us what we were able to read in the newspapers anyway. i would like to congratulate commissioner patten on the very concrete measures he has put forward here. i would ask you, commissioner, to put these measures together, as a kind of catalogue of actions, in a communication to the european parliament so that we can take action, take initiatives or continue our proposals to the council. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate my support for the decision taken by the european parliament on 18 november last year; the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east, and to the peace process in the region. that is what they are demanding and the european parliament should renew its support. (applause) i would like to thank
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the eu-russia summit took place in helsinki, at the state house, a historic building, also from russia's point of view. the house of states was the first building built in the russian empire for the representation of the people. three of the four autonomous counties of the grand duchy of finland used to meet in this house. the agenda of the meeting included four items: firstly, eu-russia relations, including the current situation in both the eu and russia; secondly, the nordic dimension; thirdly, cooperation in the fight against crime; and, finally, current international issues, focusing on the forthcoming osce summit and the situation in the western balkans. the most positive outcome of the meeting was the eu strategy towards russia, which is of very high importance to russia and is being analysed. i shall concentrate on the internal situation in russia, in particular the situation in chechnya. i will also be addressing foreign and eu policy, the fight against crime and the nordic dimension. prime minister vladimir putin said that the russian economy was growing in most areas. he believes that foreign trade has a positive influence on the economy. tax collection improved and the ruble's exchange rate stabilized. the budget for next year is based on a growth of 1.5%. according to mr putin, russia is opening up to a market economy based on the rule of law. the problem in economic activities continues to be too much barter. the banking system also needs to be improved. in addition, the budgetary relations between the centre and the regions must be redefined and russia's still very closed economy must be opened up. mr putin spoke at length about the situation in chechnya. according to him, despite some speculation, the state of emergency will not be declared in the whole country due to the situation in the north caucasus. the government will not be provoked and democratic elections will be held in due course. he also stressed that the government would continue its fight against terrorism in chechnya. russia has created a safe zone and is feeding the 100,000 people who have fled the area. here, that's some harsh language that mr. putin used. mr putin made a self-criticism and acknowledged that the russian government had made a mistake in that it had not taken care of the affairs of russia's muslim population of some twenty million people and had also neglected dialogue with moderate muslim leaders, which has been the breeding ground for fundamentalism. the humanitarian situation in the region is deteriorating steadily. it is good that the un humanitarian assessment mission can go to ingushetia to examine the situation. the finnish prime minister, paavo lipponen, and the president of the commission, romano prodi, called on russia to take steps to de-escalate tensions. both strongly stressed that a political solution to the conflict must be found, that military means would not solve a political problem, nor the desperate economic situation in the region. the eu believes that the solution lies in dialogue with the chechen leadership and strongly condemns the excessive use of force against civilians. mr lipponen also said this to the press when he came to parliament today. ladies and gentlemen, our impression at the end of the day was that the russian government unfortunately does not seem to have a clear plan for finding a lasting political solution to the crisis in chechnya. the eu's common foreign and security policy was then briefly discussed. mr lipponen and the high representative, mr javier solana, briefed the russian side on the development of the common foreign and security policy. mr lipponen said the president was preparing a report on the eu's capacity to manage crises and ensure peace for the helsinki european summit. mr solana completed the message by stating that the question was in particular how europeans could act together in carrying out the petersberg tasks. the european council also welcomed the progress made in the fight against crime at the tampere european summit. regional cooperation is important in the fight against crossborder crime and russia is an important partner. the union is drawing up an action programme against organised crime, which is to be discussed at the eu-russia seminar on organised crime in helsinki. the action plan is expected to be completed in early 2000. mr putin also stressed the importance of fighting organised crime. among the most sensitive areas, he mentioned drugs, money laundering, corruption and terrorism. according to him, the duma recently adopted a convention on the extradition of criminals. a convention on money laundering will also be ratified shortly. mr putin stressed the importance of turning words into action. tacis will also be needed in the fight against organised crime. russia would also like to increase cooperation in matters relating to the prevention of trafficking in human beings. human trafficking is taking place in the north caucasus where red cross and other aid workers have been kidnapped. drug trafficking, according to mr putin, is a problem of central asia, including afghanistan and iran, which has overtaken latin america as a center for drug manufacturing. an additional problem for russia is that its borders with central asia are open. finally, a few words on the northern dimension of the union, which aims to increase welfare, strengthen security and combat environmental pollution, nuclear risks and the dangers of crossborder organised crime. all this is essential in eu-russia cooperation, in which russia wants to take an active part, according to mr putin. it is important from russia's point of view that the region be developed in a comprehensive way. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - mr sasi summed up the results of the eu-russia summit last week admirably. as parliament is aware, the summit was inevitably dominated by frank talks on chechnya and, as the presidency pointed out, the european union pushed for appeasement, a return to political dialogue, a proportionate use of force in the fight against terrorism and a solution to the humanitarian crisis. i should like to say a word on this before i briefly focus on two other subjects which have weighed heavily on our discussions: implementation of the partnership and cooperation agreement and enlargement of the european union and the northern dimension. firstly, the commission shares the deep concern of all the member states about the current situation in chechnya. one of the most urgent priorities as winter approaches is to ensure humanitarian aid for the tens of thousands of people displaced by the conflict. in principle, the commission decided that echo could release eur 1.2 million immediately to deal with the situation in ingushetia and dagestan. the russians are open to the principle of providing humanitarian aid but we still need to continue discussions with them before the european union aid can be distributed. in order to go further, we need further guarantees from the russian authorities on the safety of the staff of international organisations on the ground. there are too many precedents in recent history for us to avoid this important question. we have also pressed them to allow aid agencies to visit the area to assess needs on the ground and i hope that this mission can take place in the coming days. secondly, and generally speaking, the commission welcomes the progress made in implementing the partnership and cooperation agreement. although the summit did not go into detail, everyone was clearly aware of the importance of a strategic partnership between the european union and russia, despite the current difficulties. in this context, the development of economic cooperation initiatives initiated with russia is generally positive. significant progress has been made, for example, in ensuring better protection of intellectual property rights. we have launched a comprehensive programme of practical training periods for young russian entrepreneurs in companies in the european union. cooperation between experts is progressing in a number of other areas, including the environment, the control of the millennium bug in russia and improved energy efficiency. however, bilateral trade and investment are not progressing as well as the commission would like. the european union is rightly extending export opportunities for russian companies on community markets in order to boost the russian economy. unfortunately, progress is more tenuous in the other direction. we have repeatedly asked the russian authorities to address the obstacles to the expansion of european union companies into russian markets. excessive certification and testing requirements are among them, as are specific concerns such as the maintenance of duties imposed on international airlines to fly over siberia. the decline in eu exports to russia since the financial crisis in august last year underlines the need for action in these areas. minister sasi outlined some of the things that are needed to improve the conditions for foreign direct investment. thirdly, prime minister putin welcomed the enlargement of the european union as a force for political stability in europe. as one can imagine, the russians are very interested in the enlargement process and the european union is ready to enter into a serious dialogue with them in the framework of the partnership and accession agreement. however, the commission has always made it clear that it would not be appropriate to set up a specific mechanism or any form of trilateral consultations with the candidate countries, as the russians have requested on various occasions. in response to russian concerns about the economic impact of enlargement, president prodi stressed the benefits of enlargement in terms of tariff reductions and better access to the markets of the candidate countries. the benefits will be even greater if russia can bring its technical standards closer to those of the european union as this will help it to access more easily the vast commercial opportunities of the enlarged single market. one of the fundamental principles laid down by the commission is that enlargement must not create new dividing lines in europe. during the summit, prime minister putin showed a very positive attitude towards the northern dimension. he said he wanted not only the establishment of cross-border zones but also the coverage of large areas of north-western russia. we agreed to discuss detailed proposals at the helsinki conference in november. as a future enclave within the european union, kaliningrad poses a particular challenge in the context of the northern dimension. the northern dimension partner countries, including the eu candidate countries neighbouring kaliningrad, are showing increasing interest in cooperation on issues arising from its particular situation. the commission is already supporting the economic transition process in kaliningrad through tacis and other eu financial instruments. the summit was not an occasion for a deep and comprehensive agreement. how could it be under the circumstances ? but i think it was a useful meeting and i really hope that the russian prime minister will think about everything we have said, especially perhaps about the north caucasus.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, unfortunately i have to leave and go to the meeting with the president of parliament, so i would like to say, as mr patten has already said in his excellent speech, that the union does not accept terrorism, but we do not accept, under any circumstances, the disproportionate use of force, it is not acceptable under any circumstances. we want a solution to be found through dialogue, and that presupposes a dialogue between the russian and chechen leaders. we will also further intensify the dialogue between the european union and russia. in these conversations, we will express our disappointment about russia's actions in chechnya. as the discussion showed, it is clear that the continuation of the crisis is increasing the pressure to suspend cooperation with russia. if the situation does not improve, it will be increasingly difficult for the council to oppose such requirements. we also paid attention to the growth in military spending in the russian budget and asked how russia intends to finance this expenditure. we were told that, thanks to increased tax revenues and economic growth, this funding margin was more than sufficient. but as has been said, the longer the war goes on, the more negative attitudes are growing towards any aid to russia.
(de) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, relations with the russian federation are very important. we all agree on this in this house and this has been repeated in a large number of decisions. in this context, i am naturally pleased that the partnership agreement is now being implemented in practice, that there are regular consultations, that all possible issues are being discussed and that these discussions are even leading to positive results. i am also pleased that the new secretary-general of the council, mr solana, has said that he considers the policy towards russia to be a priority. it's certainly quite justified. that's the bright side. now let's move on to the negative. i have been involved in russia policy for a few years myself and i can only say that in some respects it is particularly frustrating. the same issues are constantly on the agenda for russia, regardless of the body where they are discussed; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's frustrating, you know? it is also clear that the aid to russia is still largely disappearing - i will only mention the imf, the international monetary fund - and is going to a bottomless pit. it is regrettable that no real progress has been made in this area. but what is happening in chechnya right now and what we see on tv is just as frustrating. i do not want to go into the human rights violations any further, because a great deal has already been said on this subject during the last part-session. it's horrible and we need to debate and condemn it. but i also think that what russia is doing now to solve the problem is not a solution. in the short term, mr putin may achieve political successes, but in the long run he will not solve the problem of minorities in russia, nor the problem of a necessary dose of decolonization. the russian government would be well advised to analyse the examples which exist in part in its own country - i will only mention the case of tatarstan - and to try to find other political solutions instead of doing what it is doing at the moment. this endeavor will be more damaging than successful. it is also necessary to say it; it is necessary to be honest with one's partners and also to tell them the truth.
(de) mr president, i can only approve of mr lehne's report. the european union's cooperation with the russian federation is of enormous importance and in this respect the eu-russia summit also addressed important points. but quite frankly, i cannot share the optimistic view that mr sasi has just given us about the situation and the development of things in the russian federation. (applause) i would like to thank reading the joint declaration at the end of the summit on the main issue of our cooperation with russia, chechnya, i think we really cannot stop there: the european union and the russian federation have exchanged views on the situation in the north caucasus. really, it can't be enough! any cooperation with russia is currently clouded by the war in chechnya. there are already 180,000 refugees in ingushetia and dagestan. aid organizations can't work. thousands of refugees are being prevented from leaving the country and the russian government is not ready to talk. we need a political solution. i believe that the european union should give more weight to the discussions. cooperation with russia is of interest. of course, we need russia, in kosovo for example. but russia also needs us, the european union. i think we should ask ourselves whether we should not say during the negotiations: if no political solution is sought and found to the chechen problem, we should ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to block credits or suspend aid to russia - with the exception of humanitarian aid. (applause) i would like to thank during the first chechen war, the european parliament did not ratify the partnership agreement. and now, at a summit that has been given a far greater political dimension, we are talking about an exchange of views. the european union cannot tolerate this, even as it strives to increase the weight of its foreign policy. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, i wholeheartedly agree with what has been said and i thank you, mrs krehl, for at last showing such courage and saying these things so clearly. this summit has been a huge disappointment for the whole of europe and it is really not possible to go round in circles as the presidency has just done. the eu has simply failed in its task, it has not used the opportunities at its disposal. how can we again accept a brutal war waged against its own people? how can we simply move to the agenda? that's not what meetings at the highest level are for. they are not meant for polite exchanges, they are meant to call things by their right names. i must say that in the light of the facts, the report of the finnish presidency on this summit is beyond description. the truth is that villages are being bombed, that refugees are being surrounded and that these are flagrant violations of international law. this is not a russian domestic matter that can be swept away with the flick of a hand. we have the partnership and cooperation agreement, we have the human rights clauses and therefore we have the possibility of threatening economic sanctions and of pushing for an end to the bombing. without this, no international aid can reach the area, mr patten. that is why i expect the presidency and the commission to come together and develop, within the framework of the common foreign and security policy, a strategy which threatens to use these economic instruments and forces russia to put an end to this war.
- (de) mr president, when russian colonial troops invaded chechnya last century, finland had long been russian. the finnish people have bravely fought their way to freedom and that is why i would have expected the finnish presidency of the council to show more understanding for the suffering of the oppressed chechen people. i must say very clearly that the european union's strategy towards russia has failed. not only because the state and the economy are enduring a crisis even more serious than a few years ago; not only because the current russian power is already waging a brutal second colonial war against chechnya, a war for oil and at our expense; but also because a particularly bloody form of electoral struggle is developing in russia. we are participating in this bloody struggle by means of summits and money literally squandered in this war. without western funds, russia would be insolvent by the end of this month. so we are funding the slaughter of civilians in chechnya. that is why we must also intervene in this matter and make it clear to the russians that we are not prepared to do so any longer. i would like to make it very clear that i believe that the european union must change its policy on this issue and make a clear commitment to the rights of the chechen people. we have the osce, the 1996 ceasefire agreement, russia's membership of the council of europe and our cooperation agreement with russia. we must use these instruments and not try to please the russian authorities. today we have heard repeatedly about mr putin, a man of the secret services, who made his mark during the previous conflict in chechnya. it was said, in an almost gentle tone, that he was not considering the introduction of a state of emergency. why doesn't he consider it? because since the war in chechnya began, his popularity rating has increased sevenfold. why then would he prevent elections from taking place? he is campaigning with this war and only if his popularity comes to think that such scenarios should be considered again and that is why we must quickly change our shoulder gun and find a clear discourse.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr graça moura very warmly for taking up this report, which is really to be confined to the continuation of what we decided during the last parliamentary term, following the work of nana mouskouri, to whom i must convey my sincere greetings and tell you that she is delighted to see things finally moving forward. the model of society underlying mr graça moura's report is extremely humanistic. culture plays a significant role in this, and also in offering our fellow citizens mutual respect for different national and regional cultures and traditions. this new programme sets out the framework for the european union's cultural policy for the years to come. a genuine cultural and educational policy - it must be added - is more necessary than ever, since it is the real basis of european policy. first of all, it gives a human face to the distant and bureaucratic european politics, placing the citizen at the centre of action and debate, as is the case with the youth and socrates programmes. the european union cannot be reduced to figures, statistics and so on. only with the real participation of citizens can it be a living entity. this is of course a ridiculous sum, considering that the european union has only 167 million for cultural policy. as insiders, we naturally know that we are doing more in the area of cultural policy than in this area alone. we are also working on culture in the areas covered by the regional funds. but 167 million is too little. even 250 million would be insufficient in view of the scale of the work ahead. i think that the cultural field, which we must make visible, requires a much larger sum. but the same is true for everything in the european union. all the sermons say that europe must be given a soul. that's a wonderful watchword. everyone is behind this slogan, but unfortunately, not much money is spent on it. i think it's like that in every country. in the end, this programme can only be a small opportunity to make a reality of this wish to see the culture of a neighbour finally really present in its neighbours. the report as we present it today changes a great deal of the commission's earlier proposal. we have responded more to the will of the citizen and we have given up even more on the big events. i know that is also the philosophy of the new commissioner. i hope that the quality of the projects we have will compensate for the financial resources we do not have.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 28 august 1998 the commission tabled a proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing the community action programme 'youth' for the period 2000-2004, which was forwarded to the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. the commission proposal combined the existing youth programmes, 'youth for europe iii' and 'european voluntary service', and concentrated their objectives. our committee worked efficiently and quickly and unanimously adopted the coene report of 28 october 1998 with 61 amendments. on 5 november the plenary adopted the report at first reading. we wanted to strike a balance between the european voluntary service and youth for europe. the amendments proposed by parliament were intended to bring the programme closer to young people and thus to bring them closer to the european union. the emphasis we wanted to place was and is to increase the budgetary resources allocated to the programme - the commission had proposed 600 million, we 800 - in order to double the number of young people targeted. our amendments were intended to simplify the structures; improve communication with the target group; make the implementation procedures transparent; increase the participation of the least-favoured and the dissemination of information on the programme in order to improve access to it; the commission has also proposed that the age limit be relaxed and that a horizontal draft solution be found for comitology. the programme then remained stalled for seven months in the council before a result was reached under the german presidency by the publication of a common position based on a proposal for a programme of eur 350 million for a period of five years. this corresponds to an annual expenditure of less than 0.20 euro per capita on youth exchanges and is expressed as a percentage of the overall budget. i cannot imagine a european home without young people, nor can i imagine a programme which leaves most of them at the door. the european parliament therefore welcomes the fact that some of the amendments to the common position are in our direction. we have succeeded in imposing respect for human rights and the fight against racism and xenophobia in this programme. in cooperation with the commission, we have made it possible to take account of the elimination of discrimination in order to promote equal opportunities for men and women and there is also a user-friendly application adapted to young people. we have been assured that the european voluntary service is not a substitute for any potential or existing paid employment. i am now introducing 13 new amendments with the unanimous support of the committee, but these are again and again primarily about the allocation of staff, the duration and the call to the member states to remove the obstacles to access to the programme. first of all, the social protection and access to medical care of the young people concerned must be guaranteed, which could be arranged in the same way as in the context of student exchanges. in addition, there is talk of introducing a structure for collecting information on young people and creating a website 'youth in europe' and 'youth for europe' to reach new layers of young europeans through interactive means. all parties involved in the procedure should be clearly aware of the importance of this programme, which will take effect early next year, to reach our young citizens directly. the socrates and leonardo programmes have shown that a seven-year programme can be more effective than one spread over a shorter number of years. that is why i recommend that a seven-year programme be proposed and that the financial framework for this programme be set at eur 980 million. i propose a mid-term evaluation and an evaluation and re-evaluation of the youth programme. the success of this programme depends on an information practice that is not just for the insider. we must succeed in arousing the enthusiasm of young people for europe, in softening the peripheral situation of their countries, the social or financial problems they are experiencing and in awakening their appetite for europe. there will be no strict age limit in this regard. it is in diversity that europe's flavour and richness lie. i would like to call on the member states once again to commit themselves to social protection and health care. we respect the principle of subsidiarity, but the member states must also be responsible in this area. the time has now come to put the summit's fine speeches into action. in this area, informal contacts with the presidency and the commission give hope of an agreement, as young people and their associations expect the institutions to act and collaborate in a pragmatic and non-bureaucratic way. as an elected parliament, we take our responsibilities. as rapporteur, i would do everything humanly possible to reach a workable compromise and i would invite the council to meet us, particularly on budgetary matters. the future of europe begins with today's young people. that must be the message on 1 january, when the programme hopefully comes into force. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work she has done. for the record, i would like to outline very briefly again the main lines of the new action programme in the field of youth for the period 2000-2007. this action programme should contribute to the realisation of a european educational area promoting lifelong learning and allowing for the unlimited enjoyment of citizens' rights. as the rapporteur has already said, it should make it possible to combine and concentrate the various existing programmes in the field of youth. but if these different programmes are combined and concentrated into one, no specific programme is favoured. parliament has already drawn the commission's attention to the balance between the various programmes in order to allow a better distribution of financial resources. the new community action programme will thus be more transparent and therefore also more user-friendly than the various youth programmes which were too dispersed. another advantage for citizens is the strong decentralisation of the youth programme which also allows young people to participate in the programme in their home environment. i think this is very important because it gives young people who have not been exposed to europe by their peers the opportunity to get in touch with it. the earlier young people can come into contact with other european nationalities, the more active they will be in european integration. the community action programme 'youth' also promotes european integration in that it involves the candidate countries of eastern europe, cyprus, malta and turkey. in doing so, young people have the opportunity to discover the cultural diversity not only of the member states already members of the european community but also of those who still live within the community's borders but whose nationals are already living in large numbers in different member states. this has a positive impact on the fight for respect for human rights and against racism, extreme nationalism and anti-semitism. in this way, young people are making an active contribution to european integration. by involving nationals from different member states in these programmes, young people discover the european reality in its social and cultural diversity and are open to new environments, which significantly increases the desire to learn a foreign language. the committee on culture, youth and education is calling for a budget of eur 980 million over a period of seven years. the council is, however, only prepared to grant half the amount we are asking for. i think i have to repeat once again in this chamber that this sum is spread over seven years, which means an annual budget of 140 million euros. as mrs gröner has rightly said, this money is not invested in a lost cause but in the future of europe, and that future lies in the youth of europe. the training of european youth is not an area which should be subjected to austerity measures. it is therefore important that parliament should approve this programme by a large majority so that it can enter the negotiations with the council from a position of strength. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, i should like to make a brief comment. i'd like to point out that we've been working on the english text. however, in amendment no 12 part of the proposal withdrawn by mrs scallon is in the german version. it says that studies could be about the spiritual activities of companies. this is a danger of including sects of youth in the programme. this amendment was withdrawn in committee. please check the different language versions from the english text.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if you want to know how useful the audiovisual observatory is, you need only look at the table of contents of any of the iris legal journals, and its september 1999 edition, for example. it contains information on a european commission directive requiring member states to ensure that no major telecommunications company can relinquish the management of its cable network to the same legal entity. the commission has also proposed a french law on the information society which should deal with, among other things, the free use of encryption keys, confidentiality of data flows, copyright protection and the necessary regulatory bodies. or about recent judgments by the european court of human rights finding thirteen complaints against turkey admissible; in eleven of the thirteen cases the court followed the complainants and found infringements of the right to freedom of expression. this goes far beyond the compilation of statistical material and i think it clearly shows the importance of this institution. this is a significant indication of the objective of the observatory's founding, which was to provide an overview of the market and promote its transparency, as well as to collect and process information and statistics on the audiovisual sector. since then, industry and related sectors, as well as the european commission, the member states and the european parliament, have benefited in many different ways. however, a binding legal basis was lacking, which should now be created on the basis of article 130a (3) of the ec treaty, since this information service is essentially intended to help strengthen the competitiveness of european industry by improving the flow of information. the transparency which must result from this is an indispensable condition for the political action which must lead europe to the information society, even if this does not please those who want to open wide the doors to the unbridled interests of the market powers. i am glad that the rapporteur has voted for a five-year programming period; that is a view shared by my group.
- madam president, we are not going to reopen a debate that was closed yesterday. i just want to make one point. there was no unanimous opinion in the conference of presidents to remove the reference to michelin from the debate. there was a majority consensus, which had to be respected, not to put the word michelin in the wording. i myself spoke to the conference of presidents to say that, of course, everyone would be free to intervene in the debate as they wished and that, for my part, i considered michelin to be at the heart of this debate on the restructuring of companies. i do not see why the groups discussing a text should not consider that the michelin problem should be included in the resolution. i would like to make it clear that my group did not sign this compromise, which in any case did not seem satisfactory to it.
- carpegna (ppe). - (it) mr president, i should like to thank the - (es) madam president, in relation to the fisheries issue which mr barón mentioned earlier, you said that there had been a technical error. i would ask you, since this is a very important and rather serious matter, to inform me, as chairman of the committee on fisheries, of this technical error. what was it? i would also like you to inform the political groups that have signed this motion for a resolution so that they know exactly what has happened, whether it was a technical error on the part of those who tabled it or a mistake on the part of those who accepted it. at the same time, i should like to say to you, madam president, that the motion for a resolution will be debated this afternoon and i think that, in accordance with rule 37 (3) of the rules of procedure, it should be voted on after the debate and therefore this afternoon and not tomorrow as you said. i would like you to clarify this point.
- mr bendit (greens/efa) for the environment committee, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (91) 0173 - c4-0314/91) - madam president, i would simply like to ask my colleagues if they are not asking themselves whether we are not completely ridiculous in this matter, for the simple reason that we may have positions on globalisation, on michelin, some on the left, others on the right. but today in europe, to make a resolution on globalisation and not mention michelin would be to be completely off the mark. those who agree with michelin have the courage to say so and those who disagree with michelin and the dismissal say so, but let's not spend hours on end talking about it, it's completely ridiculous. (applause) i would like to thank
- (nl) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have tried to listen carefully to the rapporteur, mr bourlanges. i understand that amendment no 69 on line b1-406 is included in the oral amendment. this amendment no 69 was tabled by a number of flemish and walloon members. i do not understand what remains of this amendment if it is incorporated into the overall compromise. could you please provide an explanation?
the commission - madam president, i would simply like to make a political comment on all the amendments to heading 3. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. the interinstitutional agreement, which we refer to as a bible, provides that we vote on the budget from one end of the procedure to the other, within the limits of the ceilings. so, ladies and gentlemen, you will of course vote quite freely, as you hear, but know that as soon as you vote for an amendment on expenditure beyond what has been agreed i would say 'around' the committee on budgets, much more than 'by' the committee on budgets, you risk putting us in a very difficult position with regard to the margin. i wanted to make this clear so that everyone can take responsibility.
the commission - because it's always the budget committee's vote that gets voted on. it's a custom, perhaps undeserved, but like all customs, one must be careful before questioning them!
- (es) mr president, i object to the proposal by mr poettering to refer this report back to committee. in reality, this is an interinstitutional agreement signed by the previous president of parliament. whatever the political colour of the president, it was mr gil-robles, he was the president of our parliament. and parliament agreed with that. and we have to be consistent with our own actions. today i have learned that two new arguments have been put forward for the re-examination of this report, and this seems surprising to me because it is really about something else, from a different political point of view, and it would be good if this were made clear. from the point of view, not of my political group, but of the previous parliament, the committee on constitutional affairs, which unanimously approved this report, there is really no problem of clarity. moreover, in relation to the possible lack of clarity between members and officials, i must say that the bureau, of which you are a member, clearly adopted instructions last monday to adapt this standard according to its powers. so it's very clear. besides, we've been summoned by the council for a month because we haven't kept our word. so there is no problem of clarity. there is a political will to create a conflict with the council and not to keep our word. my group is therefore strongly opposed to this proposal. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, as rapporteur and chairman of the committee, i must say that i am really surprised. this request is completely unexpected. on monday, in this house, the report which i presented on behalf of the committee on institutional affairs - which had unanimously approved it - was discussed and two speakers from the group of the european people's party - those who spoke on behalf of that group - clearly expressed their support for the report. we now know that it contains serious legal flaws. of course, i respect the legal culture of the member who spoke, but i am surprised that these serious shortcomings have not struck all the members of the committee on constitutional affairs, people who, in matters of legal culture, have no lessons to learn from anyone. i mean that the committee cannot go any further because the inclusion of this interinstitutional agreement in our rules of procedure requires technical adjustments, but adjustments which do not call into question the agreement negotiated and signed on behalf of our parliament. therefore, let me say that as far as we are concerned, a referral back to committee would make no sense. (applause) 'parliament rejects the request for referral back to committee'
- (fi) mr president, in the name of openness, i must make a comment on what has happened. the conference of presidents last thursday reached two compromises. the first was about what mr poettering referred to this morning, namely that the name of the michelin company would not be mentioned in the declaration on the restructuring of the companies. i agree with mr barón crespo on this point. we also found a second agreement. as there was fear of cowardice in some groups, we decided to debate on monday and vote on thursday. in this way, the groups had the whole week to discuss the delicate nature of the project. i do not understand why the chairmen of certain groups refer to the agreements on both points, but they do not mean anything. i think we should have dealt with the matter in the normal way and voted today without any incident. (applause) i would like to thank
- as you will have understood, mr president, in the debate this morning, there is a problem, namely that we do not agree on the compromise text. it would therefore be good to know first of all what this compromise text is made of, particularly as regards paragraph 17. i personally believe that if we were to adopt compromise texts which are not those which the members have signed and on which they have committed their group, this would be an extremely dangerous method.
- (de) mr president, we are talking about regulations and technical details. it is questionable whether parliament should really be concerned with such details. the safety of transport, whatever the means, has always been important to parliament, particularly of course for the transport of dangerous goods. what is more serious in this case is that cen, the european committee for standardization, is very weak. we must therefore grant an extension of the time limits because it would make no sense, as the rapporteur says, for all the member states to adopt specific provisions for a specific period. that is why we need a common regulation which is as strict as possible also in the transport of dangerous goods. we can therefore only support the rapporteur's proposal, the chairman of our committee, and thank him for the work he has had to do. it would have been superfluous if the other authorities had done their job in time.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support mr hatzidakis' report because we simply need to bring dangerous goods legislation closer together in europe, but i would add that this report also describes the conflict between rail and road. in the agreements we have to reach, we have drawn attention to the fact that rail transport must be strengthened. this is good, because we will need this means of transport particularly when dangerous goods are involved. there's no doubt about it. we must of course be honest about this and ask ourselves whether we have the necessary capacity in this area. i have some doubts about that. we all talk in our laymen's talk about the capacity in the railway sector which is actually totally lacking, either because the network is not sufficient or because it is overrun by passenger transport. i think we need to be more honest in this debate. i myself come from a region in germany, the ruhr, where there is a very dense railway network and we have to see that there is simply not enough capacity, despite all the efforts made. in this context, let me turn to a second aspect which i consider very important. every time the european parliament looks at these and other subjects, i see that this is an area where we have to act at european level, as we do now for rail or for the transport of dangerous goods. this will be accepted if we have a common transport policy, a common environmental policy. this is how the parliament and european policy will gain credibility. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is the point of this report. we must not justify to the citizens of the union that we need a european environmental policy, a european safety policy in the field of dangerous goods. it's generally accepted and understood. this is also true of other areas of transport policy. i will say briefly that no one in europe today understands that aviation safety is governed at national level and not at european level. i am therefore glad that president prodi has made this a point on the commission's agenda. we must put an end to our perpetual national jealousies and say that we could guarantee the safety of air traffic in europe with five control stations! we need european solutions here, not national ones. in this respect, the states do not relinquish any of their sovereignty. we're just filling in what's needed to ensure safety. states have long since lost their sovereignty in the fields of the environment, air transport or security. europe must bring something more. and although this report, taken in isolation, seems specific, it is clear, if we place it in the european context, that it describes more than just the particular theme of the transport of dangerous goods by rail. it shows that we are aware of the existing relations and i wanted to emphasize that. let us adopt this report and always have an overview of these issues in order to bring europe closer to the citizens.
- (de) mr president, shakespeare wrote that bohemia touched the sea. as bavaria borders bohemia, it is also connected to the sea. i would say that in the eu today, this has become a reality because morocco is bavaria's neighbour as spain borders poland. all european problems concern all the member states and i would therefore say that this fisheries agreement concerns the whole of europe. it concerns the european union as a whole. it's not a local phenomenon. of course we have to look after the interests of the fishermen, but we also have to see that there are growing ecological problems linked to this fisheries agreement, as well as general foreign and security policy problems affecting the eu as a whole. it is our duty to stabilize morocco. that is why i am shocked by the tone of voice used by mr jové in this debate, both in his amendments and in his speech. we should be glad that the class struggle he expressed today has not yet degenerated in morocco into the creation of a socialist system like in libya or algeria, with the consequences of which we should now have to deal, and that democracy is slowly being established under the new king. we must support the delicate plant of democracy. spain has served as an example for europe with its intelligent policy of equality with morocco, in which mr medina ortega participated. i found his speech very mature and very important and i would like to say openly that our interest must be to guarantee that of spanish fishermen and other european fishermen. to do this, let us ensure that we reach a fair agreement quickly, one which covers ecological issues and foreign and security policy and which does not make the mistake of taking a demagogic turn that could destabilise our relations. it would then be too late, as in the case of the balkans or the caucasus! (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, thank you for all the efforts you have made to meet me today and for the opportunity to speak. commissioner, with the development of international maritime law in the 1970s, the european fleet lost its traditional fishing grounds. some 35% of the oceans and 90% of fish stocks have been placed under the exclusive jurisdiction of coastal countries. the european community has therefore been forced to sign international agreements to restore access to fishing areas and thus ensure the livelihood of its fishermen. more than two dozen fisheries agreements with third countries are currently in force, covering everything from the simple exchange of fishing rights to access to reserves in return for financial compensation. i would like to stress the importance of fisheries agreements for the eu. they constitute and enable the guarantee of employment in the union. the sector employs about 40 000 workers. an international agreement such as this therefore also plays a vital role in supplying consumers and the processing industries, and this at still reasonable prices. we see here what fisheries agreements mean for the eu. we must therefore resume and intensify the negotiations with a view to signing a new agreement. we are discussing today the extension of the agreement with morocco. this agreement - i still recall the four years of negotiations which were the subject of several resolutions in parliament - has extremely heavy social and economic consequences, especially - as we have just heard - for the structurally weak regions of spain and portugal. the agreement directly affects some 8 000 fishermen and 20 000 jobs in the processing industry. the compensation paid to morocco so far, amounting to more than eur 400 million over four years, makes this the largest fisheries agreement in the community budget. these substantial financial implications for the eu budget - as we have also just heard - require the assent procedure. parliament is involved in the decision. the consequences of not renewing would be fatal. the threat of thousands of jobs being lost is real, and this would not only have repercussions on the whole of the iberian peninsula but also on europe's position in this vital economic sector. unfortunately, the case is not that simple. morocco is reluctant to enter into negotiations and reach a quick result. he 's playing the clock ! the community's objective cannot be to conclude an agreement at any cost because time is running out. in recent years, morocco has repeatedly unilaterally placed obstacles that were not covered by the agreement. it is unacceptable that the costs of the agreement are constantly increasing, but that fishing areas and periods are being reduced. the european parliament, and in particular the committee on fisheries, is concerned about the renewal of this important agreement. why did the council take so long to give the commission the negotiating mandate? what happened to the commission's famous profitability analyses, mr fischler? the economic and social consequences of the expiry of the agreement for european fishermen are well known. why then hesitate and wait for morocco to take the bread out of the mouths of our fishermen? we need to get this cleared up, and fast. in the interests of eu fishermen, parliament must find the right words. that is what he is doing, as we know, to bring an early end to this intolerable situation. otherwise, i fear a negative effect on international agreements and, as mr posselt has suggested, ultimately also on europe's foreign policy. that is why i feel it is urgent to send a signal today and tomorrow and to call on the commission to take real measures to provide financial aid to the people concerned. i would also like to expressly urge parliament, represented by us members, to participate directly in the negotiations on the agreement. this participation can no longer be called into question! (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, commissioner, the french study confirms that we do not have reliable scientific criteria for bse as regards its cause, transmission and incubation period, and the same is true for the human variant of bse. we're only fairly certain there's no cross-contamination or horizontal transmission. this fundamental uncertainty and threat, which also affects human health, applies not only to england but also to france. in britain, france and other european countries, there is no scientific certainty that bse is harmless. in other words, to be absolutely certain that there is no risk of bse infection, you must either completely avoid animal protein or buy it exclusively from places where it is known that no bse cases have occurred in the herds. the tragic fact, however, is that those affected today most likely contracted the disease between the mid-1980's and the early 1990's. the risk of contracting bse in europe today has decreased considerably, but there is no certainty. an embargo, an export ban does not combat the disease, but it is simply a matter of localization and also a means of imposing european safety standards laid down by the commission. this was the case in britain, england and portugal. our group has always maintained that this is not a british disease but a european problem. in this respect, the criteria which lead to the lifting of the embargo today are in line with the safety criteria established by the commission. british beef is also eaten in england, and always has been. the european institutions, we who are politically active at european level, must also take care of british consumers and take the necessary measures. although national prevention is a priority, we also want it to be. we cannot simply put up barriers. it is obviously impossible to limit bse invasion to certain parts of the body, as has been the case up to now. as you know, bse, or prions, which are the markers of bse, have also been detected in blood, although these tests have not yet been validated. this means that removing the products at risk does not provide absolute certainty but is nevertheless a measure of increased safety, because we naturally find that the invasion follows a decreasing curve in the carcasses. two more points, commissioner, on the commission. as a result of the exchange of letters with the group, you know personally that we have always maintained that the lifting of the embargo should be linked to the introduction of the test. you have three validated tests, and you're not using them! it was a security measure, mr fischler, but it was also a psychological measure. we could have avoided this franco-british conflict, in which the germans have been involved to some extent. secondly, you know that in 1997 parliament wanted to introduce the 'bovine meat labelling i' measure, which is intended to protect and help consumers in their choices. it should enter into force on 1 january 2000. instead of defining the rules for its application, you now propose that we postpone labelling for three years. this is not a confidence-building measure! lastly, the agency. the establishment of an agency is sensible and justified. we can call it an agency, but in this debate we are not going to go into the slippery slope either, thinking that we must have an independent agency over which the european parliament can no longer exercise any control. we want control, because this bse problem has been settled here in the european parliament!
- (de) mr president, commissioner, the scientific review in france has brought about so-called new findings on bse. - i said so . i'm not a scientist, i'm a farmer, a consumer, a politician, but i tell you very frankly, i don't have much faith in science, because too often the results of scientists turn out to be just as favorable to the person who gave them the assignment. in everyday life we have countless examples of this. i'll mention one of them. we are looking forward to the conclusion of the scientific committee and i think we will continue the debate this evening and next week in brussels. we all know the saying, "two lawyers, three opinions". in my town, we say, "two scientists, two opinions". why would you do that ? we once asked for a soil survey after a landfill was turned down. the district scientist said the basement was stable, while the town scientist who was against the project said the basement was as stable as a bathtub without a plug! i admit that this subject is far too serious. we can debate this bse problem with great emotion this morning, but it will not help either british farmers or european consumers. we are not much help when we as members of the european parliament refer to the current violations of the internal market rules. we all regard violations of the treaty as an important issue in european politics, but as a member of parliament in my constituency i cannot use this argument to stay out of the political debate on this issue. as we sit here talking, we're driving other consumers away from the butcher's counters. at the last plenary session we reiterated our strong commitment to strengthening food safety and consumer protection. the commission president, mr romano prodi, made it clear during the debate that he would make food safety a priority, and the commission wants and must open a new chapter in consumer policy. the latest developments in the bse crisis, the war on beef, which is not just a matter for france and britain - in germany too we are currently seeing a very hostile attitude in the länder - are proof, mr fischler and also mr byrne, of the difficulty of the task ahead of us and make it clear that we must meet the difficult challenge of a responsible and transparent consumer policy. on the one hand, there are economic interests, on the other, consumer protection. i think, however - although i also said at the beginning that as a practitioner i have difficulties with the conclusions - that we must take the authorities' considerations very seriously. i can't wait to hear their conclusion tonight!
the committee on budgets - (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, mr cunha asked me to present his report. the protocol on the eu-angola fisheries agreement expired on 2 may. a new protocol was signed by both parties. it specifies the technical and financial conditions under which community vessels are authorized to fish in angolan waters for the period from 3 may 1999 to 2 may 2000. except for its extremely short validity - one year instead of three - and the increasing number of tuna vessels, this protocol is similar to the previous one. however, from a purely technical budgetary point of view, this protocol is significant for the eu. the 10.3 million euros is already a considerable sum in itself, and we do not even have a guarantee that we will be able to suspend payments in the event that angola decides to set a rest period for shrimp fishing. in addition, we are not using our fishing opportunities sufficiently, with the exception of tuna vessels, whose fishing opportunities we are using 100%. however, for shrimp vessels this figure is only 63% and for trawlers it is only 0%. we also need to think seriously about the amounts allocated to scientific programmes (eur 1.7 million), training (eur 1 million) and studies (eur 350 000). there is no clause giving the european commission the right to control the correct use of the funding. the angolan authorities, on the other hand, are not obliged to report on the correct use of these funds. the rapporteur recommends that all payments made under the agreement be settled through the central bank of angola for reasons of security and transparency, especially as angola is still in a state of war. the commission made the right choice in concluding a protocol for one year only, because the angolan stocks have been exploited intensively in recent years, especially by the soviet fleet. this has led to a dramatic fall in catches. we have just heard that licences are therefore also being granted to shipowners outside the eu. if we take the consequences of this into account, we can conclude that fishing in angolan waters is a more or less risky business for the eu. however, the rapporteur believes that we can be optimistic. the number of tuna and surface longliners has increased. in general, it is a reliable indicator of the state of pelagic stocks and can therefore be welcomed. however, the protocol does not mention international standards for the conservation and management of fishery resources. from a practical and scientific point of view, biological rest is in itself a good measure for the conservation of fisheries resources. but an international framework is needed because otherwise we fear that angola may misuse this period of rest to the detriment of the eu. the commission must ensure that shipowners are informed in good time, that is to say at least three months in advance. in conclusion, the negotiations are apparently difficult. the current political situation in angola is deplorable, especially as it is in fact a potentially rich and geopolitically important country. however, the protocol does not provide any precise information on the state of fisheries resources in angola. in order to obtain this information, the committee on fisheries has tabled amendments to this effect. so we cannot talk about a new type of fisheries agreement at the moment. the outcome of the negotiations must, however, be supported and serve as a basis for a future comprehensive protocol or a new type of fisheries agreement! in return, the rapporteur expects angola to respect the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and to improve the budgetary procedure for financing expenditure arising from this fisheries agreement, which we consider important.
(de) mr president, i was very happy to vote in favour of mr cunha's excellent report, because it is also very much centred on the principle of sustainability, which is necessary for a fisheries policy geared to the future. angola is suffering the consequences of soviet colonialism which has robbed the country. that is why i regard the role of the european union as positive and important and i consider this fisheries agreement to be an essential element of our foreign and development policy. mr president, i would like to conclude by making a personal remark. i am glad that you have chaired this sitting today. that's almost enough to make me somewhat conciliatory again. i hope that one day you will also accept to be the president of this friday club like your predecessor, mr. president gutiérrez!
- (de) madam president, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats has expressed its support for us to continue with the usual system and discuss bse using the catch-the-eye method. i must say, baron crespo, that i am very surprised that you demanded a debate. last week you criticised me when i asked - as we believed, for understandable reasons - for the napolitano report to be referred back. you said it was against the agreement. i've noted that. our group met this morning to prepare for the discussion this afternoon. some of my colleagues felt we should have the debate. those of you who felt that way will remember that i said that we had absolutely no idea what the other groups thought. it would be inappropriate for us to demand a debate. we could prepare for the discussion, but not the other groups. that is why we are opposed to ad hoc debate on matters of principle. the assembly is not prepared for this! i therefore think that we should stick to this procedure. commissioner byrne will give us a communication, we will discuss and then ask our questions according to the catch the eye system. we shall deal with this serious matter later in an orderly and serious process leading to a resolution. but for the moment we simply refuse to have a debate with a view to an ad hoc procedure. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
- (de) madam president, commissioner, do you agree with me that it is very surprising that some member states are still asking for further clarification and explanation of what these same member states have been discussing for a year and a half in the standing veterinary committee? do you also agree with me that member states which maintain the import ban should provide new scientific results and not give the impression that they want to postpone the internal market? do you also think that you should, as soon as possible - that is to say within four weeks - oblige these countries and all the others to make the new bse tests generally applicable? the two member states which maintain the import ban will certainly support you! do you agree with me that even if the agency mr prodi is calling for existed, which has not yet been sufficiently discussed in this house, we could have a situation like this again and again because there would of course be national agencies claiming to have new scientific results at their disposal at all times, and do you not think that your hope that a european agency could avoid these situations is just an illusion?
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. it's part of the case i was asked to handle. i have noted with interest and have already said that i was pleased with the statement that the french secretary of state for commerce and consumer protection, mrs lebranchu, made when she spoke of the unanimous report of the scientific steering committee over the weekend saying that it would give a guarantee to consumers. i am glad that statement was made in this regard. there has been a slight confusion as to the interaction between the ad hoc committee and the scientific steering committee. i would like to clarify this point at this stage, which the last question gives me the opportunity to do. the ad hoc committee shall be composed of experts in bse. they met for the second time last monday. the previous time they had received proof from the french authorities, which i had asked them to do. they also requested and obtained more recent information from the united kingdom. they met on monday, considered all these elements, put their own experience into practice and produced a report which sets out all the relevant points and the aspects, dangers, risks and pros and cons of the arguments on bse. that committee did not vote. that's not his job. this is an ad hoc advisory group to the committee legally established to advise the commission on these matters, namely the scientific steering committee. it was this committee which voted and was unanimous in its opinions, having reviewed all the information contained in the report of the ad hoc group and other documents provided by the ad hoc group, and obviously putting into practice their own scientific knowledge. these 16 scientists come from most of the member states. they are the most prominent veterinarians and scientists, at the top of their careers, people with a very high reputation. they have made up their minds - which we know - and it was unanimously expressed. there is therefore no confusion or contradiction between the opinions of the ad hoc committee and the scientific steering committee. this is the genesis of how the decision-making process actually happens and the interaction between the ad hoc committee and the scientific steering committee.
- (de) madam president, commissioner, do you think it is right, at the moment when the export ban is lifted - we are undoubtedly living in a community of law - to postpone decisions on marking and labelling ? do you think these are measures that will restore confidence ? secondly, what is your view of the fact that we have different provisions in the union for the control of scrapie and bse? would not the slaughter of bse-infected herds be the best solution, the one that should have been adopted from the outset to ensure consumer protection?
- (de) madam president, ... (protests by mr martinez) ah, shut up a little! (laughter) commissioner, i believe that until we have a general labelling, our parliament and europe will not be able to rest on its laurels on bse. the fact that you said today - mr böge mentioned it - that we will only be able to impose labelling in 2003 and thus ensure traceability right up to the birth of the animals makes you an accomplice in this crisis! since the legal basis has changed - and that is why we have this new regulation - and since the case is no longer dealt with under article 37, namely the hearing, but under article 152, namely codecision, we as parliament have the duty and the responsibility to bring that deadline back before 2003! that is our duty, and i ask you now: you said you would put pressure on those countries about the decision that has to be taken in the next few days; how far can the commission put pressure on the member states to adopt this generalised labelling and beef marking before 2003 ? let this be done as soon as possible, and we shall never again have to speak of bse in this parliament!
president of the economic and monetary affairs committee. - (de) mr president, monetary union binds the member states of the european union into an indissoluble community of solidarity, in which national orientations are possible but cannot be predominant. the regulatory policy needed to complete the european market in the sense of a social and sustainable market economy cannot succeed in the union unless the community interest is put first. this is also why the macroeconomic dialogue is so important. this dialogue is not an end in itself, it serves to organise effective growth for employment within the european union and to help overcome mass unemployment. this is an element that is being incorporated into structural policies, into policies for the labour market. i wonder, however, whether we have understood the scope of this dialogue. in a society where work is highly shared, the activities of economic actors must be coordinated by the market or by political planning. in my view, market coordination will not work. we need political constraints. the maastricht treaty has already shown quite rightly in article 103 that such coordination is necessary. all that's missing is the transposition. unfortunately, national governments do not want the transposition measures already mentioned in mr delors' white paper. sometimes they just can't. we know that many governments have seen the great interdependence of monetary, financial and wage policies. those in austria, the netherlands, ireland and denmark, for example, have seen the consequences, with positive effects on the labour market and budgetary consolidation. i therefore think it is essential to say that coordination will define the necessary balance of interests of economic actors and will allow them to be dealt with without limiting their autonomy. the assessment of this coordination is not yet available and i believe that the contribution of the ecb during the last parliamentary session established the magnitude of the dangers and fears. we therefore need a successful coordination of monetary, financial and wage policies. it is the basis for eu-wide coordination. it will not only mean good management but also involve a european multi-level management system. i think that the european parliament is not involved here. i would like to stress once again that parliament has been calling for policy coordination long before the maastricht treaty in order to organise european added value. i believe that transparency is now a necessity for all the european institutions. just as we expect the european central bank to be involved in the dialogue, we must demand more transparency and direct involvement of the european parliament from the council of finance ministers, the jumbo council, the council of social affairs ministers and the european council. it is not a question of trust or confidentiality - parliamentarians are capable of that - but rather a question of how to prepare our future for the 21st century. to this end, no information, analysis or forecast can be unofficial; everything has to be made public. i therefore believe that the involvement of the european parliament should be reconsidered. i am not referring to information as it was during this part-session or after this part-session during the meeting between the council, the commission and the two committees concerned. it is also about dialogue with parliament, because we must work to ensure that the macroeconomic dialogue sets concrete objectives in the interests of the citizens, objectives which could be included in the employment forum planned under the portuguese presidency.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the president-in-office of the council has used the metaphor of the relay switch which must be passed on with this macroeconomic dialogue. we just don't understand where he's going with this witness. there is still the fear that we will be doing beautiful rounds of the stadium just to impress the audience and that we will have to expect unproductive or inadequate results. i would like to reinforce what has been said here about parliament's non-participation. the european parliament's failure to participate in this dialogue is more than an error of assessment. there is a direct relationship between democratic productivity, between the productivity of the results achieved in such a dialogue, and the type of participation. none of you who are involved in the dialogue - neither the council, nor the commission, nor the european central bank - will be held directly responsible if european solutions are not found. but those who sit here, who were elected, who were empowered by the voters who gave them their vote, they will be. i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your support for the report by mr de gucht, and i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your support for the report by mr de gucht. there are major shortcomings in the formation of this thinking, both in the employment guidelines and in the characteristics of economic policy. on the basis of all this, we can still note, in essential respects, an obsolete thinking which assumes that it is largely sufficient, if public budgets are consolidated, to forego revenue and at the same time reduce expenditure. that is not how we are going to fill the deficits that are still there. the american experience shows that the fight against these deficits can only be won in a stronger way. it is therefore essential to support a process of economic development in europe which can exploit all its potential. we therefore ask you this very specific question: when will you reach agreements with concrete benchmarks on what public investment can bring to the sustainability of the growth process, which must also have a positive impact on the labour market? when will you finally agree on the quantitative and qualitative objectives for employment development which will ensure that we can bring employment figures to the level of japan or the united states? when will you find a concrete agreement with us on the fact that economic potential can also be exploited through a consolidated strategy in european countries? we don't see anything coming!
- the common position of the council on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles (com (99) 0173 - c5-0035/1999 - 1998/0321 (cod)); - the recommendation for second reading by mrs smet (a5-0041/1999), on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 93/104/ec on certain aspects of the organisation of working time to cover sectors and activities excluded from that directive (8642/1/1999 - c5-0036/1999 - 1998/0318 (cod)).
- i have a wish to make. as for the timetable for our session, we are seriously behind schedule. i would therefore ask you to observe your speaking time very carefully and to at least conclude when - this can happen in the heat of the moment - the president raises his hammer.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs supports the report of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the rapporteur's report. we hope that intensive scientific and technical collaboration will improve the dialogue between scientists and thereby strengthen freedom of expression and in this context also promote liberalisation in china. we do not know of any case where a scientist has been prosecuted or imprisoned because of his work, but i would like to point out that in recent years many scientists have been persecuted because of their political views. we believe that this agreement should also serve to restore freedom to these people. mr president, allow me to make one more brief remark, because it will shorten the debate. our committee also believes that the report on the scientific and technical cooperation agreement with argentina should be viewed positively. we have issued the same opinion for russia. if the rapporteur, in addressing this subject, were to put forward the proposal to suspend the agreement, the committee on foreign affairs could support it because, in view of the war in chechnya, it would be a reasonable measure to put the emphasis on this problem. it will in any case be supported by the committee on foreign affairs if its committee should decide to do so.
- (de) mr president, my group welcomes the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and china. this agreement is in line with the commission's policy, as described in several communications in recent years. china must be included in the international system of research and development. political and economic relations must be developed. the eu and china should sign a specific science and technology agreement to improve and expand cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, life sciences, biotechnology, transport, telecommunications and information and communication technologies. this will strengthen the presence of european economic players in china. all the commission representatives who know me know that i rarely quote their texts at such length. it should be added that the presence of european economic actors in china will be strengthened, as will that of chinese researchers in the eu. i therefore believe that this cooperation will be fruitful for both sides, that the process of democratization can be strengthened through extensive collaboration and dialogue. we believe that the agreement can contribute to greater freedom of expression. we are not aware of any cases of scientists being prosecuted for speaking on scientific subjects. however, it is known that in many cases freedom of expression is not always applicable. i call on china to achieve greater democracy and openness in this area. i should like to say on behalf of my group that we do not agree with the conclusions drawn by the rapporteur in his explanatory statement. it is not customary for this parliament to vote on a statement of reasons. we shall therefore vote on the report which consists of one sentence. mr gahrton, do not think that what you have announced reflects the opinion of parliament. that is the opinion of a minority of its members at the most!
(de) mr president, the party of european socialists will also vote in favour of this report. we believe that international cooperation can only benefit research, but we do not deny that there are certain risks. however, when i think of china, let me remind you that cooperation with china is not limited to one direction - the europeans offering their knowledge on a silver platter to the chinese - and that we are also learning from them. since we are also going to be talking about argentina, i would like to stress one point. the chinese imported the compass into our country through the arabs. if we had not known the compass, we would probably not have discovered america. we could then spare ourselves the report on argentina! european culture has also benefited from chinese culture, which gives us hope that this will continue in the future. the problem with china - as has been mentioned before, but also with other countries - is human rights. in the case of china, the issues of tibet or threats to taiwan are added. however, i would like to caution against using research as a political tool to put pressure on a country. i don't think that's going to do any good. and we punish the innocent, because scientists are usually our allies, at least in spirit. the list of subjects mentioned here is reasonable: health, environment, nutrition. i would remind you that there is no question of cooperation in the nuclear field. nor will we develop common weapons; these are sensible issues serving the local population and, therefore, indirectly the europeans. i would like to conclude by sharing a personal thought. i could very well imagine, given china's weight, a sino-european research institute or foundation where chinese and europeans would work together on one or more projects over a longer period. in other words, a platform where chinese and europeans would collaborate, whether in china or in europe. such an experience, in which one learns the other's language and culture, can be extraordinarily enriching and stimulating for both parties. the project doesn't mention that. i did, however, want to put it to the house. perhaps we'll reconsider when we make the next deal with china.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very simple to draw up such a report because it consists of a single sentence: we recommend that parliament adopt the agreement. we also recommend that this decision be forwarded to the commission and the council. at this rate, we could pull back and stop talking after 20 seconds. of course, we may ask, why do we need this agreement now? we all know from experience that cooperation with russia, with russian researchers, has been steadily improving and intensifying in recent years, both in terms of the number of researchers and the budget lines. the cooperation was divided between a number of different programmes, including - i will mention one - the intas programme (international association for the promotion of cooperation with scientists from the new independent states of the former soviet union). a few years ago i was the rapporteur on this intas programme and i must say that it was a great example for me of how it was possible to create a cooperation network despite the adverse technical conditions, despite the inadequate infrastructure. it was also a very good example - i tell you, commissioner, in case you were not in office at the time - of the research policy being taken over by researchers, not always to the delight of the commission officials at the time! i think, however, that the experiment has borne fruit. we now have the eureka, cost, cist programmes based in moscow, and it is necessary that we develop a more formal framework for all this cooperation. that is also the meaning of this agreement. we will ensure that this agreement is really based on the principles set out in article 3. it must be mutually beneficial, since it is not a question of development policy but of cooperation in the field of research, and also of an occasional exchange of information which may have an impact on cooperation activities and a balance of economic and social benefits for the community and the russian federation. it is true that if we are to achieve a more structured framework, we must nevertheless insist on certain points. on the one hand, i have incorporated into my conclusions the suggestion of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities. we believe that the need to increase the participation of women in the projects financed must be taken into account, even if it should be objectively stated that russia is no longer really the leader in this field. on the other hand, we consider the need to involve the private sector more closely in the development and implementation of programmes, and to consider closer cooperation between the relevant committees of the parliaments of the parties concerned. there is sometimes a lack of concrete political dialogue. we can also increase the use of modern means of telecommunications in order to reduce travel costs and to be able to communicate as quickly as necessary. as a parliament we would like to stress that we expect the commission to give us an overview of cooperation between the union and russia in the field of research and technological development. we often asked specific questions. so we want some hard answers. as far as nuclear cooperation is concerned, it is in principle excluded from this agreement, which i think is quite normal. it should be noted that it was the subject of separate negotiations within the framework of euratom, on which it would be desirable to obtain from the commission the clear and precise information which it has promised us. i do not think this is the right place to signal to russia, by rejecting a research agreement, that we expect and want a rapid and concrete peaceful solution to the chechen question. there are other political means of doing this. i agree with mr brok, however: it will never be as painful to adopt an agreement as it is now, even if we are rational about the objective of this agreement! i'm a mixed bag, i've been meaning to say.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, fortunately we are not faced with the same situation for argentina as for russia or china. argentina has definitely turned the military page of its history. it is a democracy today, cum grano salis, but it is a democracy. i would therefore like to recommend, as rapporteur, that this democratic aspect be taken into account in our scientific and technical cooperation. in other words, the argentine and european members, that is to say the european parliament, should discuss research and science issues and possibly put new emphases on these issues. argentina has made efforts in recent years to increase spending on research and technology, but it remains at a relatively low level. only 0.5% of the gross domestic product is spent on research. it is far too little, even though argentina is a leading country in latin america. but that is not the way to face the 21st century. in this context, cooperation between argentina and the european union is intended to encourage argentines and other south americans to increase their investment in the future. it is no secret that the share of latin america, and therefore of argentina, in world trade has declined substantially over the last twenty years. it is also because we are not investing in the future. the capital is fleeing, but the people who studied there, in europe or the united states, have also left the country and found work elsewhere. this cooperation with europe is therefore - i repeat - an invitation to look in the same direction as we do, that is to say, to invest in the future. however, the resources are limited. you will find in my report a list from the commission which shows that argentina has participated in the fourth rtd framework programme for an amount of eur 18 million. these are rather small projects, certainly very interesting, but small nonetheless, and 18 million euros is not much! when you have that kind of money, you have to try to attract other funds. i would urge the commission to use this limited amount to encourage investment in research by private companies in argentina and - i repeat - in other latin american countries. i have before me figures that give me hope. let us estimate them at the level of the european union. the german chemical industry spends 12.3 billion marks a year on research and development; another 5 billion are needed for research abroad, usually in the united states, but also in latin american countries and elsewhere in the world. in total, european industry spends perhaps 20 billion marks - 10 billion euros - on research efforts outside the union. if we could use the funds allocated here by the european union to mobilise private resources, countries like argentina would no longer just be europe's workshops, but would also participate in research and development. i would encourage the commission to take this approach. i therefore say on behalf of the committee for which i am the rapporteur that we will give our consent. furthermore, i would like to emphasize that, as with china, research is going in both directions with these countries, argentina and others. we also enjoy it. in this year of the 200th anniversary of alexander von humboldt's visit to venezuela, i would like to recall that he brought his curiosity, but also something of it back to europe, namely the knowledge of tropical plants and the geography of this interesting continent. in this sense, i also expect cooperation with argentina and other countries to be beneficial for europeans, for the european union.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is part of the eu strategy to reduce co2 emissions from transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the directive does not correspond to parliament's proposals one hundred percent. i am, however, in agreement with the rapporteur, whom i thank for his work. we want this directive to be transposed as soon as possible. that is why we do not want to have low-level discussions. for example, we might wonder if we need realistic values, because everyone knows that air conditioning or auxiliary heating greatly changes the co2 emissions of a car. on the other hand, one may naturally ask why, when a dane buys a car in germany, or a frenchman in italy, he does not receive the same information on the equipment? let's ignore all that. we want the directive as soon as possible. i would like to mention the main component of the strategy, the voluntary agreements between the commission and the car industry. if we really get to the 140 g we want for 2008, that will be a good thing. nevertheless - and parliament has already spoken on a number of critical points - there are some risks. parliament - and of course the environment committee members, who were responsible for this - was not very happy that it had not participated in the negotiations on the agreement between the european union and the japanese and korean manufacturers. i think, commissioner, that you should at last find a modus vivendi to ensure that in future parliament is properly involved in the voluntary commitments made by the legislator. this directive gives consumers the opportunity to decide on the purchase of a car not only on the basis of engine power or top speed, but also on the basis of co2 emissions and taking into account a hierarchy, a ranking of the ten most fuel-efficient models. while others in bonn are trying to evade their responsibilities and do not want to reduce co2 emissions, let us not do things halfway, let us pass the law and give the consumer the opportunity to reduce his own co2 emissions!
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for about two years, since the kyoto conference, we have been discussing how to transpose the obligations to reduce co2 emissions into european law. the third pillar of our strategy, alongside agreements with car manufacturers and tax measures, is consumer information and awareness. the common position which the council has presented to us corresponds to this third aspect in my view. it is balanced and reflects the main requirements of the european parliament's first reading. i'm saying the main points. we must thank the council - and i am not joking - for having eliminated so many of the demands made by parliament at first reading, which were certainly exaggerated and which i did not agree with. mr lange, i hope you will forgive me for including this requirement on the fuel consumption of the auxiliary heating and air conditioning. if we start to limit a certain luxury, a certain quality to which we are accustomed, we will displease the consumer. he won't let it count. that is why i am glad that the directive is now clearer and that those requirements have been removed. i think it is absolutely essential that we limit our legislative texts to the essential, this directive also. this is particularly true as we will be dealing with increasingly complex and technical subjects in the future. a similar directive is awaiting us in strasbourg, which covers precisely these technical processes. the directive under discussion is certainly an important part of our strategy to combat co2 emissions. i think there is still some scepticism about its effectiveness. i doubt that the publication of consumption and exhaust gas data is a decisive factor in purchasing. consumption figures are justified in times of constant fuel price increases. in other words, customers inform themselves in their own interest. the mention of co2 emissions is, in my view, more to raise awareness of the problem. i see this as one of the aims of the directive: to make consumers aware of the reduction in co2 emissions from their favourite car, so that they feel a little more concerned about it and remember it. indeed, if we are to achieve our ambitious kyoto targets, everyone must be involved, not just governments! what was i getting at ? as a european legislator, we will continue to set clear limit values and deadlines for achieving a significant reduction in harmful emissions. the ambition of some member states is to set limits. commissioner, i think we must continue our joint work of persuasion. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for having taken up this report. i think it's wonderful. he'll have our support. i don't think there's any problem with that.
commission - (nl) mr president, first of all i should like to thank mrs palacio very much for giving me the opportunity to go into more detail on the strategy for the internal market and the preliminary remarks she made. i would also like to thank her for the congratulations she has addressed to the commission and therefore to the departments for which i am responsible. the action programme is behind us. now we need a strategy. in the commission's communication, this is the combination of a long-term strategic vision and short-term priorities for action. it should provide a coherent framework for policy making. the aim is to increase the efficiency of the internal market for the benefit of citizens and businesses. we must succeed in convincing all the people concerned, citizens, consumers and small and mediumsized enterprises, that the internal market is good for them, that it creates the conditions for a prosperous economic life and a competitive position better geared to the challenges of globalisation. we must also, and this is perhaps an even greater challenge, convince the consumer that the internal market leads to a wider range of goods and services at lower prices, without compromising safety and quality. the integration of 15 national markets has required the creation of a new legal framework, which is now supported by nearly 1500 directives. this job is not finished. there will always be new decisions to be made. parliament is currently considering several important measures, for example on electronic commerce. your question, madam palacio, however, rightly, in my view, underlines the growing importance of non-legislative measures and initiatives which must ensure that the agreed regulations work properly in practice. targeted actions are not static actions with a longterm horizon. they will be reviewed annually and replaced by new ones as soon as they are adopted. it is essential that parliament should participate in this review as a co-legislator. the review and adaptation of the actions will be largely based on the internal market scoreboard, drawn up twice a year by the commission, and the cardiff report on the functioning of product and capital markets. the council's conclusions on the cardiff report, on which agreement will be reached at the february or march internal market council, will make an important contribution. a parallel contribution from parliament would be ideal. the deadlines are short, it's true. the cardiff report will be published in mid-january. the commission will present its proposals for new targeted actions in april. but i am convinced that your institutionalists are capable of meeting this challenge. measures of a non-legislative nature cover a wide range of activities. there will be areas where the community, usually the commission, will take the initiative and these include for example the following three elements. first, dialogue with citizens and businesses to inform them of the precise way in which they can exercise their rights. secondly, simplification. initiatives such as slim and the business test panel aimed at reducing the administrative burden on businesses. thirdly, the promotion of a common european administrative culture with a high level of service to the citizen. we need to encourage national officials to share best practice and to solve problems quickly and informally, to avoid recourse. the view of parliament, which of course knows what the citizens and businesses need, is of vital importance. i want to emphasize that. i promise to inform parliament as soon as such initiatives are being developed, perhaps through its committees. another type of non-legislative measures that can support and strengthen the functioning of the legal framework is self-regulation, or rather an approach that integrates regulation and self-regulation by regulating many aspects of legislation and, in addition, by agreeing on concerted solutions between different stakeholder groups. the possibilities offered by this approach are only beginning to be seen in the ever-changing field of e-commerce, for example, in relation to online complaint procedures. it cannot be left to the legislator, the union or the member state alone to study these matters. we must cooperate with those who are most interested in it: consumers and industry. parliament is in a good position to start the discussion on such initiatives. perhaps the main reason is to make known the concerns of the average citizen, who is not always listened to very carefully in brussels. the new institutional balance, and this is my conclusion, established by the treaty of amsterdam requires that parliament, the council and the commission cooperate in legislation. i hope that the internal market strategy will give us the opportunity to extend this cooperation to the preparatory phase when the priorities for action are defined and to the implementation phase when the optimal functioning of the regulations must be ensured. that is my answer to the question put by mrs palacio. mr president, perhaps you will allow me to say a few words after the various speeches, to conclude my contribution to this debate. thank you for giving me this opportunity.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the commission for presenting this document to parliament so quickly and for giving us detailed information on its strategic intentions. the document is very general, but important nonetheless. the internal market is itself a great step forward in the history of europe, but - as mrs palacio vallelersundi has just said - it has not yet reached consumers and citizens as it should have. the single market policy must therefore be improved. i think in particular - and this is clear from the motion for a resolution we are discussing - that it is essential that in future legislation on the internal market should be more coherent than in the past. my experience over the last five years has unfortunately shown that some legal areas of the internal market remain, so to speak, in a state of rough draft, without any connections with other legislative issues. i think this applies particularly to consumer protection issues, where there have been many contradictions between the various directives, between legislation at european level, when it came to setting deadlines for revocation or for specific protection, which were generally different. thus, some directives provided for seven working days, others for seven days. in the end, no one really knows what we're talking about. this is just one example of the inconsistency that needs to be addressed. i really believe that it was a mistake on the part of the former commission not to have pursued at the beginning of the previous parliamentary term the study of european law of obligations initiated by mr lando and his committee, although this house had the necessary means to do so. as far as legislation for the internal market is concerned, we very often encounter the problem of the lack of a common legislative framework. i think that a reasonable scientific preparation would have helped to make the legislation on this subject more consistent. i therefore find it remarkable that the commission is addressing the issue of coherence in its communication. commissioner bolkestein has already stressed this need at the joint meeting of the legal and economic committees in strasbourg. i also think it is essential to pay particular attention to improving judicial cooperation. without improved judicial cooperation and without consumers being able to assert their rights in this internal market, it is probably only half of what it should be. i am not happy with everything in this document, this motion for a resolution under consideration today. when, for example, it requires that consumers be informed of their rights by means of a leaflet, i think that is, to put it bluntly, nonsense! there is, however, a difference between going to the pharmacist to buy a medicine and being informed of the risks and going to the store to buy a commodity. i do not think it is sensible to inform the consumer of his rights by means of a leaflet. let me make a few further remarks on the amendments tabled. the socialist amendments are largely unacceptable to the epp group, not least because they are very socialist, to mention only amendments nos 7 and 8. i think that even gerhard schröder or tony blair would not have been enthusiastic about these proposals. neither are we ! in addition, there are a number of amendments which are interesting at first sight but which we do not think should be included in this communication on a strategy for the internal market because they are mainly social issues. for this reason, we shall not vote in favour of these amendments either. i would like to conclude with a comment on this unpleasant question: do we want more harmonization or more mutual recognition? it's a case by case basis. the principle of mutual recognition often has advantages. it is only where it cannot be applied because the systems are simply too different that the harmonization route must be used. the commission has not yet taken a decision on this matter. the answer depends on the question being considered.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, initially parliament gave me the task of writing a report on the guidelines for employment policies in the year 2000 alone. the overall discussion and the many suggestions made in the committee on employment and social affairs in a very general way concerning employment policy led to the decision to divide the draft report into two parts, namely a part devoted to the conclusions and a legislative part focusing on the proposals concerning the 2000 guidelines which will have to be adopted in december 1999 by the council of ministers. in doing so, we as parliament should try to focus on the essentials, so that the response from the council of ministers does not come back to saying that we would work more effectively by doing less. the council, following the vote in the committee on employment and social affairs, asked parliament for an opinion, which is now also official. the simple consultation procedure was therefore necessary. this means that legislative amendments can only be adopted without general conclusions. for procedural reasons, it was therefore necessary to submit two reports today: one on employment policy guidelines for the year 2000 and the creation of an employment committee, and a second on the joint employment report for 1999, which contains the conclusions adopted in committee. this second report opens with good news. the community's employment policy initiatives created 1.8 million additional jobs in 1998. however, youth unemployment and longterm unemployment are in most member states at unacceptable levels, since it is true that every unemployed person is one too many. i do not want to go into the conclusions in detail now, but in the light of yesterday's debate on the macroeconomic dialogue, i will mention one point: the european parliament must be more closely involved in the elaboration and implementation of the european employment pact. we regret that at the cologne summit the word 'parliament' was not mentioned in the employment document. this is unacceptable! we are the representatives of the people and therefore the most important body of the european union. the opinions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities are attached to this second report. the two opinions have considerably enriched the work of the employment committee. i thank the rapporteurs for their opinions, mrs theorin and mr grosch, for their excellent work. many of their suggestions were incorporated in the two reports of the employment committee, but in the interests of concentration we had to make a choice. we are thus improving the chances of their being adopted by the council of ministers. the committee on women's rights has also dealt intensively with the employment guidelines, and this brings us to the legislative part, i.e. the first report on the agenda. again, it has two parts, firstly a proposal for a council decision establishing the employment committee and secondly a proposal concerning the employment guidelines for the year 2000. this employment committee should provide advisory support to member states in the coordination of employment and labour market policy. i have already referred to the request in my report on the employment guidelines to focus on the essentials. it is a mistake to increase the number of guidelines any further. instead, i call for practical implementation and verifiability of the guidelines and national action plans based on concrete criteria. a pure and simple increase in numbers does not create any additional jobs. quality rather than quantity must be the watchword of a modern employment policy. in the field of combating youth unemployment and longterm unemployment, the transition from passive to active measures can lead to effective and sustainable integration into the labour market. in concrete terms, the percentage of people receiving training, further training or retraining should be increased. we are aiming for a target of 25%, instead of the 20% proposed by the commission. we need vocational training in its most modern form. here, existing guidelines need to be adapted to the new requirements of the world of work, especially with regard to school equipment and internet access. special attention is paid to school-going and student women. a second approach is to provide access to the capital market, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which, thanks to their innovations, create the majority of new jobs. the encouragement of voluntary capital participation models for workers, coupled with a clear reduction in administrative expenditure and a determined fight against undeclared work, can be the source of job creation impulses. the additional costs must be reduced, since they have a direct impact on the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. existing or new concepts of energy taxation must, however, be tested to determine whether they are appropriate for maintaining the balance of the social security system in the long term as well. as a means of combating unemployment, the report also cites the enhanced adaptability of enterprises, which means that the cooperation of workers, their timely information and consultation and, therefore, their ability to adapt to change, must be ensured, for example by means of minimum standards. flexibility is also needed in working time. we want smart working models, like the breathing factory, where working time is determined by the degree of activity, reduced, most of the time, but not always, instead of unilateral reduction of working time with full wage compensation. it does not create new jobs but endangers existing ones. according to the commission's draft, the four pillars of the guideline continue to exist. the fourth pillar becomes the most important. this is the strengthening of measures to promote equal opportunities for women and men. the coordination of european employment policy, in particular through the employment guidelines, must initiate a long-term strategy to develop the social potential for creativity, innovation, creative minds, investment and performance. reforms to encourage dynamic competition and flexibility must be consistent with the need to maintain, but also to modernise, the social security system. this is how i see the european model. this is the model of the social market economy. it is in this context that i ask for the reports to be approved. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, i have a different view. i consider positive, for example, the interventions towards strengthening regional and local employment initiatives and the increased emphasis on women's equality in employment policy, on which i think the criticism of mrs theorin remains valid. i still think that the basic positions are not sufficient. we all have a large number of unemployed among our electors. it would have been our duty to reject the commission's misrepresentation that more deregulation of the labour market or social constraints would encourage the unemployed to seek work or to participate in measures linked to employment policy. i believe that the causes of mass unemployment are primarily structural and linked to social policy. the overall reference to employment in the us service sector makes the problem extremely clear. it is well known that these are largely precarious and underpaid jobs. anyone who takes the united states as a model is either accepting the destruction of the european welfare states or pursuing it as an objective. i also regret the lack of political economy thinking which is in vogue. if financial markets are more lucrative than economic investments, the problem of unemployment will remain unresolved. i therefore urge my colleagues to support the amendment on this issue.
(de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should also like to thank mr menrad. the report lays down useful foundations, which have been greatly improved - and this must also be said - by our fictitious rapporteur, anna van lancker. i would like to say to the liberals who have spoken here that their thesis that an employment policy would be useless in europe is five years too late. of course, the european employment policy has already proved its worth. the analyses show that member states have taken many sensible initiatives, which they consider to be more important and take more seriously than before the qualification and further training of workers. in addition, this employment policy has also created new jobs, and i also wanted to say this to you, mr brie, in the service sector. we in our committee do not want new jobs in the service sector, where incomes are below the poverty line, as in america, but we want quality jobs in the service sector, which is one of the sectors close to production. of course, there are also criticisms of the policy pursued so far, in particular the actions of the member states. we lack the consistency, we lack the fight against the exclusion of older workers, and we see that in all the member states, even in sweden, women do not have an equal share in working life. it seems to me that despite the employment pact and the social dialogue, companies and the economy are completely ignorant of this subject. there is an urgent need for them to be involved in this, as well as in the finances. it is unacceptable that only the member states and the european union should finance employment policy. in order to renew and modernise employment in the member states, the involvement of the social partners is of course also indispensable. the basis is participation, the information of the workers. the commission must step up its work in this area, because - as we noted last week in the debate on michelin - there is still a lot to be done. the european parliament's participation in the guidelines - we agree - is essential. however, it is also essential - as anna van lancker has already said - to set binding targets within the framework of the guidelines. we shall therefore put these amendments to the vote. i must say that i do not understand at all, dear conservative colleagues, why you do not want to support mandatory provisions for the member states, such as increasing the employment rate or actually eliminating longterm unemployment within five years. in this way you will even help the socialist and social democratic heads of government in ways they may not expect at all. in conclusion, i would like to say again, as the conservative member has said in this house, that the euro is certainly a successful example of employment policy. all member states have met the stability criteria and, what is more, even those states which want to become members of the european union. we also need these concrete criteria for employment policy.
(de) mr president, for years the european parliament has been exerting considerable pressure on the member states. we are tired of hearing only soft declarations of intent, instead of decisions with far-reaching consequences. today, on the eve of the new millennium, we can reap the harvest of what was sown in 1997 at the luxembourg employment summit. under the leadership of the christian democrats, it was possible to engage political, economic and social actors to become concrete in the fight against unemployment, to establish new structures of work. the planned peer pressure has taken place. who wants to be counted among those who didn 't do their homework ? and there is european added value when the member states, but also the social partners, learn from each other in developing new concepts and testing new models. the report by winfried menrad was rightly called the 2000 report. the excellent work of the committee - which is very much pressed for time - can be identified with all three committees of which i am a member, namely, in all cases, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and with some restrictions, the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities which is of the opinion that we would have worked more effectively if we had done less. the report indicates that many of the advances made are ineffective: on the one hand, macroeconomic thinking, which leaves much to be desired; on the other hand, the implementation of structural reforms; and, thirdly, the alignment of economic and employment policy. there is no denying that the number of preventive measures has increased, for example, the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market, or active measures, such as incentives to look for a job or to create jobs. what is lacking is skilled retraining and training opportunities for the unemployed young people. what is also lacking are parttime models for older workers who have the ability and the will to work. young people need access to familiar computer and internet use. in this respect, member states have a responsibility to provide computer literacy at an early stage. let us not forget the uneducated, who, according to the principle of second chance, need gateways to our training and education systems. the greatest progress has been made in small and mediumsized enterprises: a better environment for new creation, the removal of administrative constraints. but action is still needed on access to risk capital and worker participation in production capital. as a result, the four pillars of employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities are the stable building blocks for the future creation of secure jobs. my amendment, which calls for the annual rate of revision of the guidelines to be maintained at all costs, so that the member states do not relax their efforts to actively promote employment, was accepted.
- (de) madam president, yesterday, with other colleagues, we raised our hands during the roll-call vote because my voting machine was not working. i now see to my great surprise that you did not notice my vote, according to the minutes. please correct this appropriately.
i'm sure you will. i would like to say that we have checked that all the machines are working properly and i would like you to check that everyone has his card.
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur i am convinced that the agreement on cooperation in the field of technology with russia is good and fair. however, i am asking for the vote to be postponed to show that we expect russia to make a serious and practical effort to find a peaceful solution in chechnya as soon as possible. in this respect, i am fully aware that postponing the technical cooperation agreement is not the best way of giving weight to our appeal. i also know that this delay, as is unfortunately often the case, is hitting precisely the wrong people, in this case, scientists and researchers. nevertheless, it is the death in the soul and after many discussions with colleagues from many groups and committees that i am calling here for a signal to be sent, even if unfortunately it can only be of limited reach.
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, i should like to make three preliminary remarks. firstly, i would like to make it clear that in my opinion i represent the position of the committee on employment and social affairs, even if my personal opinion is different. it happens in a few cases. secondly, i reject new amendments in certain cases where i believe they do not add anything new to the content. i am in favour of concentrating our proposals on the council of ministers. thirdly, there are of course also amendments which i reject because of their content, such as amendment no 46, which advocates a reduction in working time with full wage compensation as the only proven means. i'm all for flexibility here.
- (de) madam president, regarding amendment no 13, i have nothing against the procedure of submitting it to a joint vote, but i would point out that the german version is not correct. we are dealing here with an amendment which was also tabled orally in the committee on employment and social affairs. this oral amendment by mr skinner is not included here, nor is a remark made by mrs sbarbati concerning the disabled persons policy. this applies to the german version. while the statement of reasons is correct, it is not correctly reproduced in the original german version. i ask that we vote on what we decided in committee. i think the english version is correct.
- (de) madam president, i have a question about the agenda you have proposed. i would remind you that on wednesday we are also debating the important report by my colleagues dimitrakopoulos and leinen. so i'm worried about timing. will we have enough time to discuss this report, which is essential for the future of the european union? both rapporteurs deserve to have their report given sufficient time. can you give us any details on that?
- (de) madam president, i just wanted to say that i am against the proposal by mr barón crespo to abolish question time. i consider question time to be a basic parliamentary right which, unlike other items on the agenda, is expressly protected in the treaties and i strongly believe that question time should be maintained in its entirety. i understand, however, that there are time problems. the fact is that we have relatively little time for a very large amount of material, and those who complain about this today are the same people who a short while ago wanted to shorten the plenary weeks even further. i protested against this unrealistic proposal at the time and fortunately it paid off. before, the council was present for two consecutive days - wednesday and thursday - and question time in the council was held on wednesday evening. it worked remarkably well. then suddenly it was decided to reduce the council's presence to one day and that is where the problems come from.
- (de) madam president, i agree that it is preferable that the commissioner concerned be present when we discuss chechnya. i therefore also agree that this debate should take place at 3 p.m. but let me insist that the debate on the intergovernmental conference be held in one sitting. i therefore support mr barón crespo's idea that we should wait until we have finished with this discussion before moving on to the next item, namely question time in the council. i do not think it would be good to split up a debate as important as the igc debate, with one part taking place on wednesday and perhaps another on thursday morning. we should be able to discuss it in one sitting.
- (de) madam president, you have just said so. i just wanted to make sure that question time in the council would be maintained in any case. mr posselt is quite right: it is the right of members to hear the answers to these questions and it must be ensured, in accordance with the procedure, that these answers can also be communicated to members.
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive closes a legislative procedure initiated under the auto-oil programme. ladies and gentlemen, together as the european parliament, i must say that we have made this legislative procedure a real success. we - the european parliament - have succeeded in making europe's air quality improve considerably in the future, since we have imposed a 60% improvement in europe and in particular in the cities. but it was not without its problems and we had to hang on to the conciliation committee. madam president, you were the head of the delegation that won this victory over the council. the council has clearly not dared to take the final step and has shown itself to be very reluctant on several points. the council has admittedly accepted some important points in its common position, such as the mandatory setting of limit values in two stages, the raising of the durability requirements for the pollution control systems of heavy goods vehicles and buses, the introduction of on-board diagnostic systems and a survey of vehicles in service. the council, on the other hand, expressed reservations on four points and i think that improvements can be made in this area. first, the council postponed the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions from 2005 to 2008 and even added an intermediate stage before 2005. i think that this approach does not make economic sense, since everyone knows that nitrogen oxide emissions and particulate matter emissions necessarily follow the same evolutionary curve and that tackling one will automatically have an impact on the other. it is therefore not economically justified to set two different limit values in three years. on the contrary, a bulk reduction in nox emissions should be the aim. some claim that only technology can achieve this result. that's not true. several technologies exist to reduce both particulate matter and nox emissions to the level required by parliament at first reading, either by adding ammonia or by cooling the load in combination with a recovery filter. so it is not that solutions are lacking, and these solutions are not theoretical but prototypical. so we don't have to worry about the technical feasibility of these solutions. moreover, such a decision would be a waste of all the engineers' efforts and would make no economic sense. in addition, the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions is of course also justified from an ecological point of view. why would you do that ? we are discussing, for example, a limit value for ozone concentrations, a value which we want to reach by 2010 and which would be 80% lower than the one currently recorded in the european union. if we really want to achieve this, we absolutely must also reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from trucks and buses. the european union currently has 168 million passenger cars and 23 million commercial vehicles and buses. these 23 million commercial vehicles emit the same amount of nitrogen oxide as 168 million cars, or 50% of total nitrogen oxide emissions. so we have to do something ! the second point on which the council was somewhat reticent concerns the issue of retrofitting old vehicles. we know that trucks and buses have a long life span and therefore travel long distances. it is therefore essential to provide incentives for retrofitting these vehicles so that older vehicles also become cleaner. the council also expressed reservations about the introduction of more environmentally friendly vehicles - we have proposed some additional provisions here - and about the introduction of strict controls to prevent the beating cycle that has been observed in the united states, i.e. that the manufacturer can easily circumvent the emission limit values requirements by electronic manipulation. we intend to return to the charge on this point. we have a chance to bring this legislative procedure on the reduction of exhaust gas emissions to a successful conclusion with a view to improving air quality. our proposals must of course be very ambitious to start a conciliation procedure. we want to come out of this procedure with a good compromise and it is therefore unthinkable to start with this compromise. let us therefore show courage here too, let us initiate a conciliation procedure as short as possible and let us ensure that our victory - the improvement of air quality in europe - remains a masterpiece to the end! (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the reduction of exhaust emissions from heavy goods vehicles which we are debating today is, in my view, a logical continuation of our efforts to improve air quality in europe while preserving the mobility of citizens. this has not yet been said today, but it is important to stress this aspect as well. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. the report deals largely with essential elements and fits well into the existing legislation on air protection. i would like to make a general comment on the structure of this report. i wonder whether the technical criteria which are set out in the annex should be discussed by members of parliament here. without the help of an expert, it seems to me that these annexes are simply incomprehensible to most of us. i think that in such cases the technical reports should perhaps in future be adapted by the legal department to what we have proposed and decided. the following are some of the more complex and controversial points of the second reading. i agree with the rapporteur that the transition to the new standards should be done in one go. by proposing 2006 as the deadline, we are demonstrating our ability to conciliate, since this is a concession in relation to the first reading. the council's proposal not to apply these new standards before 2008 cannot, in my view, be followed. the directive on the improvement of fuel quality and the technologies already available in the field of catalysts allow the council and parliament to develop an ambitious project in this field without unduly harming industry and the transport sector. let us remember our experience with the auto-oil for cars programme. we have stood firm and it is now clear that our course was the right one. the other important points i would also mention are the incentives for retrofitting old vehicles, particularly through tax measures. i believe that this area has invaluable potential. heavy trucks have a very long life span. we must urgently consider the possibility of tax incentives, even if the adaptation of the vehicle only allows one criterion to be met. the effects could be much more numerous. overall, i'm very pleased... (the president cut the speaker off)
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the daphne programme on preventive measures to combat violence against children, young people and women. a decision in favour of this programme is urgently needed if we are to ensure continuity with the programme period which is coming to an end. this programme is important and is part of our commitment to ensuring a high level of health protection in the european union. unfortunately, the effects of violence are still frequently observed in the community and constitute a serious threat to health. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. the daphne programme also aims to combat psychological violence, which can take many forms and in which the person concerned is even more powerless. health is not just about physical well-being. all forms of violence also leave psychological scars that are rarely or not easily repaired. the establishment of networks and the support of existing networks are therefore necessary. it is equally essential to support information campaigns in this field and the exchange of experience has an important role to play. these exchanges should also cover criminal prosecutions. any discrimination against the victim must be avoided in the event of a complaint. it is also essential that those affected are adequately informed of their rights and that the public is made aware of acts of violence against women, children and adolescents. children and adolescents, as well as women, unfortunately still need our special protection. only when well-being has spread to all the social structures of our society can we master the tasks of the future. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs avilés perea very much for the speed and skill with which she worked on this report. yes, we are running out of time.
- (de) mr president, i should like to congratulate mrs avilés on the speed with which she has dealt with this difficult subject, which has enabled the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities to present this report so quickly. i would have liked to have seen more men involved in the work, though. because at the end of the day, violence against women and children is a male problem, not a female problem. i am convinced that this programme will make great progress in the fight against physical, sexual and psychological violence against children, adolescents and women. however, we must be aware that this is only a first step and that much more needs to be done to combat the problem of violence effectively. in 1999, despite stubborn opposition, parliament succeeded in getting a campaign against violence against women adopted. the eurobarometer survey published in may this year highlighted the scale of the problem of violence and the gaps we need to fill in this area. europol and the stop programme are instruments in the fight against trafficking in women. as a result of the campaigns, a series of actions were undertaken by the member states. the conferences held under the austrian, german and finnish presidencies brought the complex links between the fight against violence to the fore for the first time. this has enabled my country, germany, to present a national action plan to combat violence, and other countries are following suit. i think we have given a significant boost to this movement. it should also be noted that mrs avilés' report on the council's common position was adopted after bitter disputes over the change in the legal basis, i.e. the abandonment of article 235 in favour of article 152. it is with pain that my group has approved this amendment and only because by doing so the who definition of health as a state of physical, mental and social well-being and no longer merely as a state characterized by the absence of disease and infirmity will now be recognized and adopted as a basis by the council. in order to reach an agreement quickly and to avoid a conciliation procedure, my group agrees with mrs avilés and recommends only six amendments to the council's common position. however, we would have liked to have emphasized some aspects of the daphne programme differently, in particular the link with other community programmes such as the phare, tacis and meda programmes, since this is where the most important funds are to be found for setting up prevention measures and campaigns in the applicant countries. in any case, we stress the need to involve the media in the implementation of the programme. i thank you very much for the work you have done and i hope that the council will accept our amendments.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the international convention on the rights of the child was adopted on 20 november 1989 and i think that on the occasion of its tenth anniversary it is useful to take stock of the situation. all our member states have ratified this convention, although some have done so with certain reservations, reservations which should now be lifted immediately. in the last ten years, the social democrats have endeavoured to make the rights of the child more widely known and to give them greater weight through several important resolutions and reports. the first is the gröner report of 1991, in which parliament for the first time took up the issue of children's rights and called for the appointment of an ombudsman specifically to deal with these issues. the report by mr bandres molet on the adoption of a european charter of the rights of the child and the recent zimmermann report on minors are also worth mentioning. in other reports prepared for various international conferences of the united nations, we have given very high political priority to the needs of children in the context of cooperation with third countries and in particular with the acp countries. in recent years, our parliament has submitted several proposals to the commission and now expects a communication summarizing all these initiatives in return. the tasks listed in the priority list must be carried out one by one. first, at the top of the list is the incorporation of the fundamental rights of the child in the new treaty. secondly, the use of the daphne programme as the first instrument to combat sexual exploitation and violence against children. thirdly, the situation of girls, which deserves particular attention in all policy areas, given that here in europe, but also all over the world, girls are still discriminated against. fourthly, we must do everything we can to ensure that children are kept out of war, whether as victims or as perpetrators. there should be no more child soldiers in the world. two minutes is not enough time for such a long to-do list. please, do something!
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has a very important role to play in many crucial social issues, but it is also true that this directive has been a real driving force. mrs ghilardotti has presented the facts. i would like to mention four basic elements of the community directive. this proposal for a directive is a framework for adaptation to industrial change, a policy framework which is indispensable if we are to be able to incorporate inevitable changes in socially acceptable ways. in the recent debate we had in this house on the michelin case, i said that there are no 'velvet changes' because we are going through a period of extensive restructuring, of technological breakthrough, of transformation of working relations and conditions, of widespread globalisation. we must therefore be prepared to welcome these changes at a social level. the second point i would like to make is that europe, in this period of restructuring, can boast of great successes: a single market which is deepening day by day, a monetary union which is also expanding day by day and which must now demonstrate its social dimension. this directive is therefore an important policy choice. it was the subject of three years of consultation with the social partners before being submitted to parliament and the council in november 1998. parliament took note of the text and adopted a resolution and 35 amendments in april 1999. unfortunately, a year after it was put to the council, it has still not dealt with the matter. as regards the amendments, i can say that the commission considers nine of them admissible, seven of them in principle, but we have not gone any further. i owe you an explanation. during the finnish presidency, which took over, as you know, with various directives to promote and to complete the programme for the semester, a strategic choice was made which was communicated to the committee on employment and social affairs. the strategic choice was to adopt first the european company statute directive and then the directive on information and consultation of employees, on the grounds that if the directive we are discussing now were to be adopted first, it would be extremely difficult to get the european company statute directive, which we know has been under negotiation for more than 14 years, passed. this strategy of the finnish presidency has had the effect of reopening the debate on the status of the european company. the directive under consideration has not been discussed at all and i will, in reply to mrs ghilardotti, state what points of disagreement or divergence still exist between the national delegations. there is the question of the threshold of employees above which an undertaking is covered by the directive on information and consultation. i personally think that the question of small and mediumsized enterprises should be left aside. in these the situation is different, but there must of course be a threshold of employees above which we are discussing. the proposed threshold was 50 employees. i repeat, this is one of the points of discussion and disagreement. the second question concerns the definition of the terms 'consultation' and 'information'. there are different views depending on the reality prevailing in the various member states, but also, very often, on the political perspective in which one is situated. there is the question of the degree of autonomy and limitation of agreements between the social partners in each member state, with the point not to be exceeded - for example as regards sanctions. these questions remain more or less open. the only question is what we have to do now and how we can achieve the desired result, i.e. the adoption of such a directive as soon as possible. the important thing is not so much to have an excellent directive on the negotiating table as to create a framework which guarantees the required standards and which can finally be voted on and come into force. i therefore have to say what the commission now proposes to do and in what timeframe. firstly, we will wait until the end of the finnish presidency to see whether there is a final agreement on the directive on the status of european companies. if no results are achieved by the end of the year, my intention is to recommend to the portuguese presidency that it change its strategy, adopt a different approach to the issue and a different basis for negotiation to allow for faster progress on the directive under consideration; the commission will then, after an initial reaction from the council, proceed to the phase of reviewing the approach, which does not seem to me to be an easy task. it is not difficult to adapt the proposal on the basis of the amendments which we have already accepted and to submit it to the council. but i think that during the portuguese presidency we will have to review the order of the steps taken during this six-month period in which we have made no progress and proceed as i have just indicated.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, last april the epp voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the european community. the proposals of parliament and the commission are based on the principles of partnership and subsidiarity. it is important that enterprises have a special structure for informing and consulting workers, a structure set up through an agreement between the social partners. parliament proposed that national workers' representations should be involved in the preparation of this convention. the fact that the local works councils did not participate in the preparation of this convention is unthinkable. the commission has indeed responded positively to various proposed amendments, but - as you have just said - it has not yet put forward an amended proposal. we cannot accept that what parliament has worked so hard to prepare is simply put in the fridge! the conditions for the adoption of a common position by the council must now finally be met. the council is clearly lacking in political will. what is the commission's position on this, madam commissioner? i didn't quite hear you. does the commission believe that the finnish presidency and perhaps the next portuguese presidency are afraid that britain will again take the opposing side in the dispute over workers' rights to co-management in the future european joint stock company? it is no secret that the british government's agreement to the european joint stock company with minimal joint management rights was obtained only in exchange for the assurance of a one-year delay in the directive on information and consultation of employees. we have often deplored in the plenary the lack of timely information from company management in restructuring cases, whether at hoover, renault or michelin. but we can also send out positive messages. the directive on the establishment of a european works council is one of them. the conditions for its proper functioning are that the national workers' representations to which the european works council transmits its information have sufficient rights to be able to react in time. the directive in question guarantees this. let me clarify my question again, commissioner: did i understand you correctly that the commission does not plan to present an amended proposal before the end of this year, which would be very unfortunate? timely information to workers is a sign of transparency, which creates a climate of confidence and avoids friction and its harmful effects in european companies. the workers have as much to gain as the employers.
(de) mr president, i was in strasbourg yesterday, on time, but last week my plane arrived in brussels several hours late and i had to wait an hour and a half for a taxi before i was finally the victim of the railway strike. i'd rather you didn't.
the rapporteur, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is right to say that things are getting serious now. this is our money, or more precisely, the revenue of the european union. what we are discussing today about the reform of own resources is directly related to the discussions we had and the decisions we took in the spring of this year. i would remind you of the commission's voluminous report which presented a comprehensive analysis of own resources and put forward many of the reform options currently under discussion. following this report and very detailed discussions, parliament adopted its position on the reform of the own resources system in march this year. unfortunately, the berlin council was unable to agree on any real progress in this area. he stuck to his well-known bargaining techniques. the outcome of the berlin conclusions only complicates the own resources system further and limits the financial room for manoeuvre available to the european union. this can 't go on ! the heads of government and finance ministers must finally stop looking only at the short-term interests of their respective countries, without regard for the losses that this attitude entails. this community can only survive and develop if we also take into account the common entity and our long-term prospects and if we are prepared to invest to this end. the council's attitude is all the more to be condemned as it continually decides on expenditure from the european budget at international donor conferences without ensuring that equivalent revenue is available. in short, and to put it very mildly, the way in which the council treats the revenue of the european union is not very serious and could really put the enlargement process on hold and hinder any chance of development. however, i am also disappointed by the commission's proposal to amend the own resources system. we are not, of course, wishful-wishing, and we also knew that the council would not make a turnaround between spring and now and that it would not undertake any fundamental reform. i naturally recognize that the commission, like parliament, must take account of the council's mood and positions on our proposals if we are to achieve a serious result. the commission could have done more, and i would even say it should have done more. it is dragging its feet behind the council like a slug, to present a proposal which is subject to the council's agreement on every point. the commission's role is also to be the driving force behind integration, or at least to be the guardian of the treaties and to avoid any regulation which is detrimental to the community. i do not think she did so when she put this proposal to us. i do not want to spare parliament any criticism, however. we too could have made more bold demands for reform of the own resources system and should have been more open to our national debates. in any case, we will have to be more consistent in the next round of reforms, which should not take too long, if we want the union to remain capable of acting financially after enlargement and also in the event of additional tasks being assigned to it. that is why we want to oblige the commission to reduce the time frame it proposes in its report. let me make it clear, in a few points, what we can and must do to bring about a change in the own resources system that will lead to a change towards reform. first, the organization of the european union's revenue must observe a number of fundamental principles without which the system cannot function in the long term. this means that we need a system that is transparent, uniform and balanced. in the long term, there must be a direct link between the financing of the union's expenditure and the citizens. for those who are again calling for higher taxes, i would add very clearly that the tax burden on citizens cannot of course increase as a whole, but that is also the position we adopted in march. in the near future, and as long as the budget is financed through the member states, the implementation of this principle means that funding must be provided on the same terms for all. in future, there can be no question of derogations and rebates. this is a requirement which the group of the party of european socialists has agreed to, including for members from member states which still enjoy such exceptions or would like to do so in the future. this is a great step forward, of which i am very proud, and i would urge all the other groups to accept this compromise which is being put to them in the form of an amendment. secondly, securing and extending financial capacity also implies that we must create new and real own resources to replace the present ones. but above all, it means that the only genuine own resources available to the union, namely our traditional own resources, must not be undermined. this would be the case if the commission's proposal were implemented. such a concern would, however, be justified if the share of the expenditure incurred by the member states in collecting these own resources were increased by 150%. unfortunately, the majority of the committee did not follow my request to maintain this share at 10%. i can only express my sympathy with the amendment tabled to prohibit a 25% withholding tax. this would prevent the traditional own resources from being emptied of their content. thirdly, if transparency, balance and applicability are to be achieved, the basis for funding must be clear. at present, the main pillar of financing is the gross national product of the member states. this must be the case as long as the financing is provided through the member states, because anything else would distort the system and make it illogical. the own resources ceiling, set at 1.27% of gross national product, defines the proportion of this product that can be devoted to the european budget. this figure has become a reliable political basis for a partnership between parliament and the council. it must therefore be maintained and cannot be arbitrarily changed. these are some of the elements of the proposal i am submitting to you for the amendment of the own resources system. moreover, unfortunately there are no other options at the moment, given our limited room for manoeuvre. the consultation procedure applicable in this field and, above all, the restrictive context established by the berlin european council agreements allow only a restrained action. i would ask you all to support me on these amendments at least. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0055/99) by mr averoff, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council regulation on budgetary discipline (com (1999) 364 - c5-0141/1999 - 1999/0151 (cns)).
- (de) mr president, commissioner, if i may, i would say that with your proposal the council's obligations are actually removed from compulsory expenditure but the council's rights, namely the recovery of unused resources, are retained and that we are in fact moving from compulsory to non-compulsory expenditure without parliament having any right to this part of the budget.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have given the floor to two speakers who were not on the list of speakers because we are running out of time. it will not always be the case, but i think that when it is possible, it should be done in this way because it cannot be to the detriment of our house to have a little more spontaneous and political debate than is usually the case. (applause) but as i said, no lasting rights should be derived from this precedent. it depends on your personal discipline in speaking time whether we can do it or not. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0061/99) by mrs dührkop dührkop, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on draft supplementary and amending budget no 5/1999 to the budget of the european communities for the financial year 1999.
president of the committee on budgetary control. (de) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs dührkop dührkop, for her report on the fifth supplementary and amending budget of the commission and to say that we approve of her report. it may seem surprising that a fifth supplementary and amending budget is being presented to us at the end of this financial year. i would like to point out, however, that parliament and the union as a whole have developed the notenboom procedure to such an extent over the past few years that it was virtually impossible to know what was being carried over at the end of the year and we insisted that this be done in supplementary and amending budgets in order to improve transparency. and look: their numbers keep growing. i think, however, that in doing so we have achieved greater openness and increased possibilities for control and i therefore welcome these measures. you will not be surprised to hear that i particularly want to look at olaf and the 15 additional jobs that are planned there. olaf, which started its activities on 1 july this year and took over from the commission's former anti-fraud unit, uclaf, is a new institution and we want to do everything we can to ensure that it works effectively. i assume that this concern is shared by the commission and the other institutions, which are still deciding on accession via the interinstitutional agreement. originally, amending budget 4/1999 provided for the creation of 15 posts for olaf, which is to have a total of 300 posts. in all, 120 posts - i do not mean people but posts - from the former uclaf are already available to olaf and the development must move forward rapidly. we were therefore very disappointed to see that a great deal of persuasion was needed to add 15 jobs to the 15 already provided for in the supplementary and amending budget for 1999, bringing the total to 30 for this year. i thank the committee on budgets for its unequivocal support of this request from the committee on budgetary control. we now have these thirty jobs for 1999. the 2000 budget calls for 75 jobs. however, the establishment plan must guarantee the full operation of the office by 2001 at the latest. mrs. schreyer, i'd like to ask you a few direct questions. i believe you have been able to contact the monitoring committee whose secretariat is to be reinforced with high-level staff. the olaf monitoring committee is composed of five independent experts who nevertheless continue their normal professional activities. they do not do this work on a voluntary basis - they receive a fixed allowance, but no actual salary - and they need adequate support. you will have been in contact with the monitoring committee and have been able to convince yourself of the need for this work to ensure olaf's independence. yesterday we decided on the procedure for appointing the director of olaf to the committee on budgetary control. i therefore ask you, mrs schreyer, to send me a letter dated 28 october asking you and the commission as a whole to give me official confirmation of the list of the eleven candidates for this post. unfortunately, i have not received a reply to this letter. i would ask you, in the presence of the house, to give us your reply as soon as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the council is pressing, parliament is pressing. the commission should also press for the appointment of the director this year. if you can, please promise us that the official confirmation of the list of eleven candidates will reach us this week.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mrs dührkop dührkop on her excellent work in monitoring the 1999 budget. i think that a rapporteur has rarely had to deal with more than 60 carryovers and five supplementary budgets in a single financial year, not to mention the plethora of amendments and additions to the original budget which led him to declare, during the debate on the fourth supplementary and amending budget, that he no longer recognised his own child, the 1999 budget. if i am being very critical, it is not primarily against you, mrs schreyer, because you are not the one who has had to answer for it in recent weeks. but when we, as members of parliament, draw up a budget at the end of the year, that is, in the autumn, we assume that we are setting priorities in the budget and that these priorities will also be the ones that will actually be applied during the budgetary procedure, that they will take effect, and that what we consider important will actually be the subject of political implementation. we are now seeing a very serious change to the budget for the fifth time. i know that we have demanded this fifth budget precisely because of olaf, and we are sticking to that demand. but we must still ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to set priorities in budgetary discussions if they are subsequently abolished. an example from last year: the committee on budgets and parliament finally gave a strong opinion in favour of increasing the budget line for aid to georgia and armenia. we knew that not everyone agreed. but we've managed to impose it. and in the course of this year we have seen that these three million extra have not even been used, that they have been completely eliminated because the measures were not applicable or because their implementation was not desired. that's the problem. in the future, we want to know what happens to our priorities - and that is why we will monitor their implementation more closely than before. we will be asking you about the various posts throughout the year. we will also entrust this task to our parliamentary committees: when you describe policies and really burden us with details in the budgetary procedure to tell us that a particular item requires an extra 100 000 euros, you must monitor the implementation of this. and i say that to our committees too. it is not enough to make a mockery of the budgetary procedure. what we have done in recent years is to incorporate more and more reserves into the budget so that we can improve control and become more involved in implementation. but that can't be the way to go. as regards the brs 5, let me say to the commission the following: you knew of course that there was a new parliament and yet - i want to take this opportunity at the end of this year to say this to you - you introduced an amending and supplementary budget during the summer break, even though we could not react because the new parliament was not yet in a position to function. the method is not the most elegant. you can count on the new parliament, aware of its prerogatives, to pay particular attention in future to the way you treat us and to the possibilities we have of actually honouring our obligations. i would like to add one thing because what i have said so far concerns the budgetary procedure under way. we are now entering into very difficult negotiations involving figures which we are not all fully convinced are really a sound basis. at the beginning of this year we concluded an interinstitutional agreement which should strengthen confidence in the framework of cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament. if this confidence is to be justified, it must have a solid basis on which to base our decisions and debates. i say this very clearly and with very specific reference to the figures we have been given for kosovo. we must have very reliable figures on this; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this would lead to a new redistribution, a new distribution of hundreds of millions, and that cannot be the aim of a budgetary procedure. we now want a solid basis, we want it to be clear that kosovo is a multiannual project: we will have to act together for several years. we want a solid foundation that will last for a long time. the practice of constant redeployments, continual postponements of appropriations and additional budgets is not justified if it gives the impression that the work at the beginning of the chain has not been carried out in a sufficiently careful manner. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this fifth supplementary and amending budget for 1999 is in line with the guidelines proposed in may in the context of budgetary conciliation. the appropriations for the phare and tacis programmes, those for the former yugoslavia and for macroeconomic aid to macedonia can be increased and now guaranteed. the negative effects of the crisis and the war in kosovo on the situation in macedonia are being taken into account and the promised budgetary aid, which is urgently needed by macedonia, can finally be provided this spring, or at least this summer. in addition, this document creates 15 new posts for olaf and i naturally want to deal with the questions that have been put to me about the appointment of the director of olaf. that is correct: the independent monitoring committee - and i would like to emphasize the word 'independent' in relation to the monitoring committee - selected eleven candidates from the multitude of applications that it considered to be qualified. after that, the commission's nomination committee made a selection and i can assure you that you will receive later today the list of candidates deemed qualified by the nomination committee. i think the procedure should be interpreted as follows: it goes without saying that the committee on budgetary control is free to hear the eleven candidates before taking a decision. i really hope that the procedure followed by the commission and the procedure you will follow in your hearings will lead to comparable results. given the qualifications of the candidates on the list, i am confident that we will be able to find a very good candidate to fill this difficult position. i would like to dwell on the deferral of appropriations. parliament had already carried forward eur 30 million less in the overall carry-over of appropriations. the rapporteur therefore proposes to increase the phare programme by 25 million. as i did during the trilogue, i can assure you once again that we support this proposal and ask the council to accept this amendment. if this supplementary and amending budget is accepted as amended, and if all the amendments for 1999 are taken into account, an additional eur 670 million will be made available for the phare, tacis, south-east europe and other programmes and will be financed mainly from unused agricultural resources. in general, i am pleased that less spending has led to more resources for foreign policy. you have repeatedly lamented the fact that deferrals of such a scale are proposed and even possible. i would point out in this connection that this is a budgetary reality and that in the course of a financial year, of the implementation of a budget, the development of things may not allow all the budget lines to be used up. this does not mean that the commission does not fully accept the decisions of parliament. i will ensure that parliament's decisions are taken into account. however, we will always be faced with situations which do not allow full implementation of the budget lines. when such situations are foreseeable in scale, i will inform you systematically and i think we should then consider together how, not to block or not to use these resources, but to redeploy them in areas where parliament will consider it appropriate to devote additional available resources. as i have said before, i think it is a very positive thing to have agricultural resources which have become superfluous as a result of changes in prices and markets and to be able to re-inject them into foreign policy programmes which are as important and urgent as those in question.
(de) mr president, a very specific question. mrs schreyer, you said that the list would be sent to us today. what list ? the list of eleven candidates or the list of four? mr bösch has made his point very clearly. i would like to warn everyone against improper application of procedures. they are clearly set out in regulation 1037/1999 and the interinstitutional agreement. parliament cannot say that it will hear eleven candidates or only four if there is another list. it can't be like that. we cannot allow complaints from candidates on the monitoring committee list. you must first agree with the monitoring committee before you officially send us the list so that we can continue our procedure, start the consultation with the council and send you the nomination proposal. in the end, the appointment you make is only nominal but the procedure must be consistent. i would ask you to tell us precisely what list we are going to receive today.
commission - (de) mr president, madam president of the committee on budgetary control, we have also discussed in your committee how to ensure that no formal infringements are committed. of course, the situation with regard to the appointment of the director of olaf is a new one. a specific procedure has been decided. at the same time - and i would add that this is understandable - the decision does not stop at every detail, so that the way forward is not entirely clear. we must therefore work together to ensure that the existing procedures - which are formal for the commission; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, including the setting up of a nomination committee, the right of parliament to hear candidates and the position of the monitoring committee. the commission now has the recommendation of the nomination committee and the selection was made on the basis of the list of eleven candidates alone. to that extent, it is therefore a combination of procedures. i can assure you that i will put all the elements together in the debate in the commission today on the way forward - you decided yesterday how to harmonize all this. i can only repeat and confirm once again that i really want this decision to be taken this year. it is relatively late but the decision should be taken this year so that the director can start work quickly. i am quite optimistic, to be honest, and i think that we can reach a good solution through an interinstitutional procedure. i would like to reply to mrs dührkop dührkop that the priorities set by parliament in the budgetary procedure naturally dictate the actions taken by the commission in the implementation of the budget. that is why i have indicated that you will be informed in due course of any difficulties that may arise. you have just given examples of which i can assure you that i too am very concerned. it is therefore natural that i should see to it that the necessary basis for the implementation of this expenditure is laid. if, on the other hand, positive developments allow what i shall call savings, we can think together about how to redistribute this expenditure.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on thursday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0039/1999) by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission 'strengthening the integration of the environmental dimension in european energy policy' (com (98) 571 - c4-0040/99).
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you. i congratulate mr chichester on the report submitted to this parliament. it's a good report. the european union also promotes environmental policy in the energy sector through programmes that promote the efficiency of installations. but today i want to say again very clearly that the most important environmental policy measure was to introduce the abolition of monopolies and the introduction of competition in the electricity and gas directives of 1996 and 1998. this is the only way in which the old monopolies have been able to stop operating unprofitable plants, the costs of which they have passed on to consumers. now they are being encouraged to operate their facilities as efficiently as possible. i would also like to draw attention to one particular aspect. only a competitive environment can lead to different tariff policies, as we have all seen in the telecommunications sector. the tariff differences will lead to a spread of consumption over 24 hours, which will allow a better exploitation of the capacity of the installations and the reduction of the number of installations needed. in other words, less energy will have to be produced, which is the most significant environmental contribution to be made by these directives. it is therefore also worth noting that the former commission's ideas on so-called integrated resource planning - a very unfortunate expression - will no longer have any meaning because no regulation is necessary. the energy producers and distributors will themselves try to control demand. when the directives were adopted, the epp group stressed that environmental policy had not yet been harmonised. that is why we have the report before us and we are also waiting for further initiatives from the commission. i would also like to point out that these directives provide for priority technical regulations for the production of electricity from renewable sources and from cogeneration. all these are clear environmental benefits. but what is still missing, what the old commission has not created and which we hope will finally be created, is a european directive which not only regulates the production of electricity from renewable sources from a technical point of view but also sets out the models which will make it possible, in accordance with european competition law, to promote this type of energy in compliance with the treaties. mr linkohr is sitting among us. at the time we were not able to agree with all the details of his proposal, but we agree on the direction to take: european law on this matter must be established. in this connection, i should also like to say that our committee will discuss with the commission very soon the outstanding regulatory needs in the field of gas and electricity because despite all the solemn assurances we still do not have a european market but fifteen separate markets. this has to stop. one last remark, and it's entirely personal. i am not one of those who believe that a co2 tax can protect the environment. i would quote the secretary-general of the iaea who recently told us that he was not aware of any model which would show that a tax on polluting emissions actually contributes to reducing energy consumption and emissions of pollutants. that is why i believe that until proven otherwise, all the thinking on co2 is just a disguised tax increase which i will only be prepared to participate in if the reduction of other taxes is announced and also carried out beforehand. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr chichester for his report and his suggestions. this will certainly not be the last debate on environmental and energy policy that we have in this house. but this report has certainly made progress. if we had had this debate ten or twenty years ago, the elements would have been quite different. it would have been called sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide or dust. fortunately, we have made progress in this area in recent years. air quality in europe has improved and where improvements are still needed, a range of initiatives have been launched. the main problem in this sector is still eastern europe, that is, the countries that want to join the european union, and i think we cannot ignore this problem. furthermore, it should not be forgotten that some of these improvements were simply achieved by replacing coal with gas. we can debate the advantage of that. in any case, this change and also new technologies have significantly improved air quality and the report under review also points out this. mr mombaur has very rightly pointed out - or so i interpret his words - that the internal market we have just created certainly requires efforts on the part of the member states. however, it also requires the european union to adopt framework directives, a framework which allows competition to take place in an environmentally friendly environment. this is the new mission of the european union. so we do not need less europe in this area, but more europe. secondly, i would point out that as far as we can judge, fossil energy sources such as coal, oil and gas will remain the dominant energy sources in europe for a long time, let alone the rest of the world. which means that if we want to improve air quality, if we want to fight the greenhouse effect, we have to keep our focus on fighting these effects of burning fossil fuels. unfortunately, too little is said about this, but the most promising elements in this field are indeed more energy-efficient appliances and, above all, better combustion techniques. i think that in terms of research, we can still make enormous progress and achieve better results. fuel cells will certainly bring us an advantage in the coming years, but so will cogeneration. we must promote those technologies which show a better return, and we must do so by means of taxation if the market does not provide for it. secondly, i think it is very important to mobilise citizens and to harness their imagination in the field of energy policy. citizen initiatives are useful in the energy field. they mobilize people's imagination and their propensity to take risks. there are many examples of initiatives by villages, towns or groups which have led to significant energy savings or to the implementation of new technologies at a faster rate than usual. we should value it highly. in conclusion, however, let me address two phenomena which are not directly related to the european union but are related to the global climate. some of you may have read that in china, we have the phenomenon of the fire-breathing. huge amounts of coal burn, burn slowly. these are wildfires caused partly by natural causes, partly by human action. they produce much more co2 than we can save here. the second phenomenon is the combustion of so-called associated gases in russia and the middle east. the amount of co2 released is far greater than the reductions achieved in recent years in europe. in addition, the quantities of gas that are burned in this process are greater than what we import from russia. i just want to draw your attention to this phenomenon. it requires more than a simple report. politics must be involved - perhaps at the highest level. i really wanted to revisit this phenomenon.
commission. - (es) mr president, i should first like to thank and congratulate mr chichester on his positive and constructive report on the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on the reinforcement of the integration of the environmental dimension into the union's energy policy. i would also like to thank all the members who took part in this debate for their constructive and positive contributions. at the helsinki summit in december, the heads of state and government will discuss the integration of the environmental dimension and sustainable development into the various sectoral policies, in particular energy policy. it is therefore quite appropriate to have a debate on this subject today. firstly, i would point out that it was the energy sector which first drew up a communication on the integration of the environmental dimension into its policy. this reflects the critical role it must play if we are to meet the environmental challenges we face. the energy sector has made a significant contribution to improving air quality at local and regional level compared to past practices. the directive on large combustion plants to reduce sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides and the auto-oil programme to tackle the problem of urban air quality are very good examples of this. i would like to emphasize the existing cooperation between the energy and environmental sectors. this confirms that it is possible to strengthen integration and, through it, to establish environmental quality standards at a cost that does not affect european competitiveness, which must never be lost sight of. this cooperation is of particular importance in the fight against climate change. energy is still a major issue in the preparation of the international negotiations for the implementation of the kyoto protocol. on the whole, the commission is very much in favour of parliament's views. the emphasis on the need to change people's reflexes and consumption habits, and to establish communication channels with citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises confirms the importance that political leadership will have on changing our consumption habits and stimulating sustainable development. as i have often said, we must start by setting an example in public facilities, in public buildings, in the public sector and in institutions, of more efficient and rational use of energy. technology will always play an important role, but ultimately the establishment of new or higher environmental standards will have to rely on the support of citizens. the search for cleaner and more cost-effective technologies is one of the commission's main ambitions. parliament's resolution reminds us of the whole external dimension, namely the enlargement process and relations with third countries, in particular developing countries, and calls for a realistic, balanced and flexible approach to policy-making, which is particularly important when considering the energy mix and its evolution over time. the commission, ladies and gentlemen, agrees with parliament that a broad approach is needed to stimulate the use of low-carbon energy sources to meet demand. our programmes emphasise renewable energy and energy efficiency. these demand policies are a central pillar of the sustainable dimension of our energy policy to address the major environmental concerns of citizens. parliament also draws our attention to an area which has not been given sufficient importance. i am talking about the development of the possibility of separating and storing co2, which is an option to be studied in depth. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we support this resolution. it reminds us of the true definition of sustainable development. it also takes account of the human dimension of our policies. we must carefully analyse the economic and social consequences of our policy decisions in the energy and environmental sectors. finally, mr president, various speakers referred to a wider debate, to consider all aspects relating not only to the demand and environmental aspects but also to the aspect of our energy sources and our energy dependence as envisaged for the future. there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a debate which will require our full attention and which i hope we will be able to develop in the coming months and, of course, before the end of the mandate of this commission, with the same thoroughness, transparency, intensity and quality of discussion as in the debate on this report.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon, that is to say in a few minutes.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal under consideration deals with the transmission of judicial and extrajudicial documents. at first glance, this might seem rather incidental, even uninteresting. most often, however, when a citizen wishes to assert his rights in the context of litigation, civil proceedings, he must first obtain from the partner, the contractor, the opposing party, documents such as the documents instituting the proceedings, replies, enforceable judgments or notarial acts, and this via a formal, legally demonstrable notification. however, attempts to assert rights are often thwarted at the first hurdle when they take place in a crossborder context, because notification procedures between countries are at best incomprehensible, complicated, slow, costly and subject to many errors. the international conventions on this subject - the main one being the 1965 hague convention - are full of numerous reservations by states, are very complicated and difficult to understand and apply. to improve this situation, the member states concluded a convention in 1997, on which parliament had delivered its opinion. however, this convention has not yet been ratified. the commission proposal is based on the convention. in doing so, the commission exercises its right of initiative in the community area of judicial cooperation in civil matters, pursuant to article 61c of the ec treaty and in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 67, namely a unanimous decision of the council of ministers after consulting the parliament. the united kingdom and ireland have expressed their willingness to be fully involved in the community's work on judicial cooperation in civil matters. denmark has so far not indicated that it too would like to participate in the procedure. as the title of the directive indicates, it concerns the transmission of documents in civil and commercial matters, thus excluding criminal matters. this is one of the many measures proposed in this area. as regards the substance, it must be said at the outset that the replacement of the hague convention and the successive conventions by a single, concise community legal act is already a major step forward. the legal situation is more accessible, uniform and transparent. the key points are that in future transmissions will have to be made in a decentralised and immediate way between the so-called originating entities and the required entities in order to avoid delays resulting from the involvement of several instances in each country. in addition, it is planned to set up central bodies to provide assistance in problematic cases. uniform forms will be drawn up at community level and common provisions will be made for the use of languages and translations, with binding deadlines. while the proposal represents a very remarkable improvement in the situation of crossborder judicial proceedings, it seems to me that it is still stuck in the middle. first of all, because a directive is being proposed. the appropriate instrument would be a regulation which would increase the binding nature of this legal act and avoid potential sources of error. the proposal also contains too many exemptions and special provisions which provide for derogations for states and which are a relic of the practices adopted in the framework of international conventions. it is difficult to see how such a large number of national derogations could be justified in the context of a procedure for the transmission of documents which should nevertheless be efficient and rapid. in sum, it is not a question of the integrity, which is absolutely worth protecting, of the substantive legal order of the states or of the equally justified protection which a state must offer its citizens in the event of a dispute, but of correcting and leveling the channels of civil judicial transmission between our countries, of making them shorter, better, but above all faster and, why not, cheaper. for these reasons, we propose a series of deletions and amendments aimed at abolishing such derogations or at least allowing them only in exceptional cases: for example, articles 2, 9, 12 and 15. some other improvements are also planned, for example in terms of translations, linguistic problems, costs and differences in interpretation between the competent authorities. i would like to thank the members of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their cooperation and for the amendments tabled. i also thank the commission for this relevant proposal which will make it possible to achieve a considerable improvement in the enforcement of the law at cross-border level. the proposal does not go far enough, however. you're taking three steps forward, so to speak, before taking a step and a half back. our amendments are designed to maintain the three steps forward and to abandon the three steps backwards - the exceptions and derogations. i would ask you to approve this and i would ask the commission and the council to take up our proposals in the interests of a better application of the law for the citizens of the union.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a uniform legal area is a basic duty of the european union. it shall provide citizens with adequate protection and security; i would even say serenity. otherwise, citizens will not feel at home in this growing europe and will reject it. the european legal area must therefore encompass more than judicial cooperation between member states on the basis of international conventions. it must be transparent, guarantee such a high level of legal protection everywhere and, above all, exclude any form of prejudice, even for procedural matters. the amsterdam treaty has made a great step forward. in principle, it has made civil judicial cooperation a community matter. the member states must now have recourse to european legal instruments in this field - that is to say, the regulation and the directive drawn up with the participation of the european parliament, the elected representative of the european peoples - rather than to international conventions. with this draft regulation in the field of family law, we now have an important component of the european legal area. we shall see when we have finished with this question because the commission has made a good proposal. i am not opposed to the need, as rapporteur, to have a number of amendments adopted unanimously by the committee on civil rights - please spare me the exact wording, which is unpronounceable. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a little insight into the everyday life of our law. the abolition of frontiers between member states has not only created a european internal market that has brought economic prosperity. the abolition of borders also gave european citizens freedom of movement on a scale never before seen. more and more people are taking advantage of this new mobility. they get to know each other, discover each other, form partnerships, couples. love has its own rules and a rhythm that the law can hardly keep up with. this is shown at the latest in the case of separation of couples formed across national and legal borders. the former partners and the different legal systems are then quickly thrown into conflict, with all the unpleasant consequences of which the children are often the main victims. you all know the headlines that come out of the newspapers when such conflicts escalate to the abduction of one's own children. laws cannot prevent people from tearing each other apart and suffering the consequences. but laws can help to limit suffering and prevent further suffering from the application of divergent and inconsistent legal provisions. the subtleties of procedure may be enough to sow doubt in the minds of the parties, for example, as regards the jurisdiction of the court or the recognition of judgments. the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility for joint children is an attempt to contribute, by legal means, to alleviating or avoiding the suffering resulting from the separation of couples. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i had to ensure that this necessary regulation achieved its objectives without, however, being as opaque to the citizens as its title. it is in this context that the amendments which, as i have already said, were adopted unanimously by the committee after intensive discussions, should be seen. at the end of the vote in committee, there was only one point of difference. this was the child's opportunity to be heard in the custody proceedings. i believe that it is absolutely essential that the child be heard if everything is to be done for his welfare. others believe that this objective can be achieved in different ways. since then, i have worked with mr watson to find a solution which takes account of both concepts. i am very grateful to mr watson for this, because he too has a particular concern for the welfare of children, who often suffer most from separation. i shall put the compromise reached in the form of an oral amendment to the vote and i hope that this house will also approve this procedure on this occasion. of course, this amendment will have to be adopted. there is another point which still needs to be worked on in the rules. however, parliament cannot take a decision on this matter and can only make a request. as you know, three member states do not participate in the legal acts under title iv, in accordance with the protocols of the treaty of amsterdam, and are therefore not bound by them. two of these states are nevertheless prepared to adopt the regulation under discussion. i therefore call on the third of these states to enforce this regulation as well. we would then have taken a significant step towards the unification of family law within the european union. in conclusion, let me emphasize three points on which it has seemed to me important, after many discussions with the parties and the judges concerned, to improve the commission's good proposal. first, in the event of a dispute, the welfare of the children must be given the highest priority and any other interest must be subordinated to it. secondly, litigation cannot lead to any form of discrimination. everywhere in the european union, the law must offer a high and comparable level of protection to every individual. thirdly, the jurisdiction of the courts must be clear and transparent. the recognition and enforcement of decisions may not be used for purposes of revenge. i think the commission agrees with me and i thank all those who, going beyond parliamentary routine, have helped me to draw up this report by means of constructive collaboration. i would also like to congratulate the council, which has also dealt with this matter and said that a good decision on this matter should be taken very quickly. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to comment on the gebhardt report on legal cooperation in family law. those who have contacts with judges and civil servants, including in the border regions of our member states, know that this is a problem that must be solved urgently. for a long time there has been a growing number - and thanks be to god, a growing number - of marriages and family relationships that cross national boundaries. of course, this often leads to a number of problems. there is also an increasing number of people moving from one eu country to another, migrating to live and work in another eu country. it is true that the current legal provisions and international regulations on this matter are not sufficient to deal with the problem. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to the council and the commission, as mrs gebhardt has just done, for taking the initiative to resolutely seek a solution to this problem. it is indeed urgent and necessary. i think the shortcomings of the project are also quite tolerable. a whole series of benign aspects were also discussed during the committee discussions. i have not yet understood, for example, why negative decisions should be excluded from the scope of this regulation. i think this is particularly problematic because the fact that negative decisions are not binding on all the member states could mean that the member state which has given a negative decision does not recognise the positive decision given by another member state, which would lead to a further fragmentation of the law in the european union, something we really do not want. i would ask the council to look at this again in its next discussions on this subject and to see if it is possible to solve this problem. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
- (de) mr president, the proposal on marriage and child custody represents a substantial improvement for the citizens of the european union and is welcomed by the ppe group. i thank the commission and the rapporteur for this. the purpose of the regulation is to ensure that decisions taken in the member states on divorce and other forms of legal separation are promptly recognised by the other member states and to ensure that timely and uniform rules are established as regards parental responsibility for joint children. this was made possible by the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam on 1 may this year, which, by its articles 61 and 65 of title iv, anchors judicial cooperation in civil matters in the ec treaty. the objectives set cannot be achieved by the member states alone and must therefore, by reason of their crossborder dimension, be implemented at community level. this will allow the creation of a european legal area which will finally give a sense of legal security to citizens throughout the eu and guarantee a uniform civil status throughout europe. until now, problems have arisen within the european union in the case of binational marriages because documents certifying the marital status of spouses in divorce proceedings were not uniformly recognised by all member states. even more problematic were the questions of the jurisdiction of the courts and the validity of their decisions for binational couples in the process of separation. it was noted that the legal decisions that were made were not reliable and that in particular the decision on custody was often at the expense of the children. the aim of this regulation is to improve and accelerate the free movement of decisions in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility in the internal market. the aim of the european union is to create an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is guaranteed and in which citizens of the union can assert their rights with the same guarantees as those granted to them by the courts of their own country. by regulating the recognition of divorce judgments handed down by the competent courts, the european union should therefore achieve a simplification of the recognition of decisions in cross-border family disputes. in a legal area as multilingual as the european union, insufficient language knowledge can also be a source of confusion and litigation in the case of binational marriages. we therefore support the rapporteur's request that member states ensure that acts are always drafted in a language which is understood by the parties. in addition to the rules on jurisdiction and recognition of separation orders, the regulation also deals with custody, which in many cases accompanies separation. this should be emphasized in particular, since it represents a substantial increase in the protection of the children concerned, whose interests must be safeguarded. so far, there has been only limited progress in creating a european legal area for the benefit of citizens. recognition of divorce judgments and decisions on parental responsibility solves legal and administrative problems that citizens face in their daily lives. the entry into force of this regulation will fill a gap in private international law and is an important step towards the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice.
- (de) mr president, following the statement made yesterday by commissioner vitorino on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the international convention on the rights of the child, i am glad that we are discussing today something concrete that can really benefit children. the increasing freedom of movement within the european union is facilitating the birth of an increasing number of binational couples. because of the legal differences between the various countries, such marriages and divorces often bring with them special problems. the children suffer the most and have to worry about additional problems, as if the problems of separation were not enough. the new proposal for a council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility for joint children ensures a uniform civil status for european citizens. it follows that marriage and divorce certificates and judgments in these matters will have to be recognised in the countries of the european union. we must, however, ensure that the application of these principles does not lead to new errors and discrimination, which is unfortunately sometimes the case at present. the welfare of the children of such couples must be guaranteed in particular. the procedure for granting custody must be consistent and final. the result must be recognized everywhere. the child's best interests must come first. the child must be given the opportunity to be heard in court in order to establish clearly that his welfare is taken into account and i hope that the compromise solution proposed by our colleague watson will not create any additional problems and that we can resolve this important issue in the child's favour. this is the only way to avoid endless proceedings between states and to prevent the abductions of children which are unfortunately too often the result of legal confusion. we have to address the problem of legal conflicts in the marriage field. this is the only way to achieve crossborder legal security for europe's citizens and children. i would therefore like to congratulate mrs gebhardt on behalf of my group on her excellent report and i hope that we can make this important step forward for children a reality.
(de) mr president, commissioner, i thank you for the clarity with which you have explained the commission's position. this does not mean that i necessarily agree with this position. i must disagree with you when you say - and i quote you - that it is not possible to close nuclear reactors anywhere overnight. as a german, you know that where it is indispensable - i am thinking of the case of the greifswald nuclear power station - it can indeed take place overnight, provided of course that we have the political will and that we create the right environment. i have no illusions that in the countries of central and eastern europe these are of course very complicated issues, partly economically and also socially. however, i also think i have pointed out a contradiction in the internal energy policy of the european union as a whole if you consider that in the cases mentioned, safety can ultimately only result from the shutdown - and i agree with you - and that on the other hand, as regards similar nuclear power stations in the cis, you are considering ensuring safety by modernising and promoting these safety measures by the european union. i believe that this can only be achieved in the european union and the candidate countries by shutting down the reactors. i think it would be very problematic to establish another criterion outside the community, including for the cases mentioned, and i think we would all be well advised to aim not only at stopping in eastern europe, but also to become a model for energy policy within the european union, and not to threaten the possibilities that exist in this area by continuing deregulation.
(de) mr president, commissioner byrne, i am pleased to see the importance attached to community law. awareness of community law in the member states must be increased. i would ask you, however, whether this would be a long delay in the event that you were to bring an infringement proceeding. in the meantime, and in the context of the negotiations and any compromise decisions that may result, will the commission ensure that the principles you set out in the hearings that preceded your appointment (i mean the test) are applied and that the beef labelling, which will be mandatory from 1 january 2000 anyway, is also applied, if we do not move to another regulation in the context of lifting this embargo and imposing the commission's views on the countries that have decided on this embargo?
(de) mr president, commissioner, i too believe that this is a problem which we must deal with with the greatest caution. you have very rightly pointed out that we must take scientific considerations seriously and i am of the opinion that it is in the best interests of british farmers to sell safe beef as soon as possible and not have to wait two years before they can do so. that is why no one, whether in this house or elsewhere, has an interest in the launching of an infringement procedure which lasts two or three years and which only creates insecurity within the european union. mr byrne, can you tell me how you intend to ensure that objections to the scientific level are examined as quickly as possible so that the member states are not in a position to raise objections and apply laws without having to explain why this is so? can you also tell me that you will make it clear to germany that you expect any constitutional obstacle, such as a decision by the bundesrat, to reach you as quickly as possible? finally, mr byrne, i would like to ask you again a question i asked in brussels. could you be more specific about the testing? when will you put a proposal before this house to make esb testing compulsory in the european union?
(de) mr president, i think this is a dark day for consumer protection. mr byrne, when you took office you promised to promote prevention and transparency in consumer protection. as my colleague has already said, i really have to ask you how you relate this to the precautionary principle and credibility. we advocate the precautionary principle in the hormone-meat conflict, not here. i think that if consumers are not given the opportunity to learn about this, we end up with a kind of forced feeding. what do you do with your promise of transparency for the consumer if at the same time you delay the introduction of labelling? how can consumers exercise their right to choose whether or not to eat this meat? how do you respond to this violation of article 36? article 36 allows member states to impose an embargo in the event of health risks. in what situation are the risks greater than in the present case? we know very little about the incubation period. you know that the experts have expressed serious doubts regarding the problem of transmissibility. so here's my question. i think that in this case you are emptying article 36 of its meaning and you are trampling on the precautionary principle and transparency for consumers if you are making a hasty decision instead of really ensuring that food is what it should be, namely a livelihood free of any health risk. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr posselt, the commission is aware of the study presented by four czech opposition parties on the legal approximation of the czech republic. i should point out, however, that this study was first presented to the czech press and public before a copy of it reached the eu delegation in prague. i myself did not receive a copy of it, not even last week when i met in prague with representatives of the parties which published the study, so i cannot give you any firsthand information on the contents of the study.
- that's very interesting. i was told that this study was sent to you personally. but apart from that, i would like to say that i support these four opposition parties and many of the social democrats who are campaigning for european integration. i also regret the withdrawal of mr lansky, who has made a great effort, but i see the danger of a debate breaking out in the czech republic, and that is why i want to ask you. according to a former ruling party, according to a major opposition party, we could have a membership to the map; it is a question of a turkish-style status, of political retribution, and i really wanted to ask you whether you thought such a model was possible or whether you insisted on the prior and exhaustive implementation of the acquis communautaire.
- (de) mr president, i should like to make a brief personal statement. i had no intention of suspecting the commissioner of lying when he said he had not received the document. but the rumor was going around in the czech public that this study had been sent to you and you had not reacted until now. that is what prompted my question and i thank you for that clarification. anyway, i didn't want to suspect you in the slightest. there may be other reasons why you didn't receive it but i never intended to suspect you of making a false statement.
commission. - i am very pleased to be taking part for the first time in a debate in the european parliament with the high representative for the common foreign and security policy. we are all very fortunate that the main person responsible for developing a more effective and coherent european defence and security policy is mr solana. as you know, he enjoys a solid and well-deserved reputation on the international scene as a defender of the values which have been the source of the best in european history during this century, but whose absence has been the source of the worst in this same history. the high representative and i spent much of the first few weeks in our respective posts studying together the problems that were unfolding at the time on the ground, 30,000 feet below our airplane seats: we travel a lot. i am reminded that lord grey, who was british foreign secretary for ten years at the beginning of this century, has only been abroad once. if i remember correctly, this visit was followed shortly by the outbreak of world war i. i suppose lord grey was considered a great traveller. with all the travel we do today, we may be more informed than he is, but we may not be. i do not wish to go back on the various points which the high representative has so well developed, but since you have invited me to take part in this debate, which i sincerely welcome, i would like to say a few words about what the commission thinks of the construction of a european security and defence policy. security and defence, which are at the heart of the common foreign and security policy, are also, inevitably and rightly, dear to the hearts of the member states. as was clearly shown at the beginning of this week by the historic meeting - to use the adjective used by the high representative and the word is not too strong - of the general affairs council attended by the defence ministers, the member states are convinced that better cooperation within the european union in security and defence matters will have two major benefits. firstly, it will enable everyone to make better use of the resources available and, secondly, everyone will gain in power, precisely because the member states are working more closely together. these advantages are more necessary than ever in the field of security, because today we are making greater demands on europe. the rest of the world expects more from us, because we are doing well economically and we are doing well in the field of establishing peaceful and stable democracies. i think our own citizens expect more from us, who do not see europe in terms of balance sheets and gdp alone. how could they, given the frenzy of political events in recent years, a frenzy that began the day an american political pundit told us that history had ended? the european union must rise to the occasion. it's as simple and as complicated as that. the treaty of amsterdam and the cologne declaration present a formidable challenge. and we in the commission want to play our part in helping to achieve that. we have no military role. the gathering of so many uniformed men on the sidelines of the general affairs council on monday evening appeared to be an interesting cultural development. however, what the commission has is the means and experience to make a significant contribution to the non-military dimension of security. the petersberg initiatives pave the way for a comprehensive package of crisis management measures allowing for an interaction between community instruments, traditional diplomacy and, where appropriate, the use of military force. we are reaching a crucial point here. the military dimension is sometimes indispensable and decisive, but the non-military dimension can be just as essential. the nature of conflict has changed so much in this century of bloodshed. 85% of the casualties in world war i were soldiers and only 15% were civilians. in today's conflicts, the opposite is true. moreover, with the increasing sophistication and interdependence of our societies, aspects such as economic measures and the free flow of information have become increasingly important in conflict management and prevention. the european union must therefore consider its action by reviewing the whole range of instruments at its disposal, both military and non-military. if you want to measure our contribution as a community, look at the diversity of our operations in the balkans. we are obviously involved in areas such as humanitarian aid, rehabilitation and reconstruction. but there are many more areas in which we can intervene to prevent conflict and human suffering. i am thinking in particular of respect for the law, institutional development and trade policy. this is the kind of thing we are supporting, for example in kosovo, and for which we will be committing a further community contribution of eur 500 million at the donor conference in brussels today. what i am saying is that it is not necessary to make an extraordinary effort of imagination, or even to read between the lines of the treaties governing our activities, to understand very clearly the roles that the commission and parliament can play. the usefulness of a coordinated military and civilian management of the crisis, at the level of the union and between member states, has not only been felt in south-east europe. we also see this in the case of east timor. we must improve our capacity as the union and as member states to manage crises and to support the international organisations active in this area, which is so necessary, alas! the european council in helsinki is to consider an integrated approach to conflict management and the commission is fully contributing to this review. let me make a point that some may find a little too prosaic. in the context of conflict prevention and crisis management, time is a crucial factor. the new commission has started to try to improve the efficiency and speed of deployment of the instruments we have in case of a crisis. parliament has often asked us to do so, and rightly so. the task is considerable. in many ways, any progress on this would be by far the most important thing i could do for our far more heroic goals. i hope that we can continue to count on parliament's support to develop more flexible and faster procedures and i do not miss an opportunity to draw the attention of the council to this point, which i am sure the high representative will not object to. the commission's role in crisis management is clear, but it goes beyond this. it is not possible to develop a european security and defence policy without providing it with a competitive and open industrial and technological base, which is also in the interest of the european union's partners. we in the commission can help with a whole range of instruments in areas such as public procurement, the internal market, research and competition. i would like to make one final comment. we are sometimes talking about potential institutional conflicts in relation to the efforts we are about to make in the field of foreign and security policy. i hope i am not offending anyone, but i think the issues at stake are too important to be allowed to be emptied of substance by diplomatic jurists. it is clear that we must develop our foreign and security policy within the institutional framework of the union. it is clear that there is no clear division between military and non-military aspects. it is clear that the commission must play its full role in crisis management, even when there is a military dimension, because there will be a non-military dimension anyway. it is clear that the new structures must enable the commission to exercise its right of initiative fully. it is clear that the commission is not a body of amateurish officials and it is clear that we want to do a good job with the high representative, and with parliament, in providing europe with the security and defence policy that it needs and that the citizens are looking for. and if i have one more, i will say that it is clear that as long as i hold this office, i will not let a single sheet of cigarette paper, or perhaps i should say, after david byrne's statement yesterday on tobacco, a single piece of cloth, slip between the commissioner responsible for external relations and the high representative. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the secretary-general and high representative, who will also be the secretary-general of the western european union, has been in this house. you bring us, mr solana, extraordinarily good information on these missions. you were president of the council and secretary general of nato. our group wishes you good luck, both personally and in your duties. your success will be our success, europe's success. the european christian democrats and conservatives wish you good luck in your new duties. you said you would come to this parliament whenever necessary. this certainly includes the relevant committees and the committee on foreign affairs. we would like to see a different form of institutional cooperation with you, but on the same basis as with the commission, which has said that it will appear before parliament and committees whenever they ask for it. if you think about it in this way, i think we are going in the right direction. i would like to thank the group chairmen for agreeing last thursday that the european commission, represented here by mr patten, should speak today. article 18 of the eu treaty provides that the commission is to be a party to the common foreign and security policy. that is why our group will always defend the interests of the commission, because they are those of the european union. that is also why we will always demand that you - and i think your two personalities guarantee this - cooperate to the fullest in the interests of europe. there can be no competition or rival ambition. we are working towards the common goal of a strong europe that can act. (applause) i would like to thank if you are the secretary-general of the western european union and weu is integrated into the european union, a new parliamentary monitoring mission will develop. the european parliament will have to assume this role alongside the national parliaments, which will retain this monitoring function. we therefore believe that the assembly of the western european union, which has played a key role in the past, should pass on these prerogatives to the directly elected european parliament. you mentioned a few areas where the european union must act, including russia. the security of our continent will depend on the evolution of russia. we want a strong and democratic russia. we believe, however, that what is happening in chechnya today is a disgrace to russia and to europe. russia is moving away from european values by its actions in chechnya, grozny and other towns and countrysides in chechnya, and i invite you, mr solana, and mr patten, to speak out today, tomorrow and in the coming days at the osce conference in istanbul. we cannot be silent! those who remain silent will have to answer to the muslim citizens of chechnya. (applause) i would like to thank let me make one final comment on security and defence policy. we want a european identity in this area. this does not mean that we have to break away from the united states, but rather that we have to divide up the work and not be two-faced. we must be able to act on our own; and that's why we need to create all the conditions necessary to do that, in transport, in communications, in information, in modern satellites. we can't leave everything to the americans. it is also a question of technology, as mr patten rightly says. all this must not be done in opposition to the united states, but in addition to it. i believe that if we take up our responsibilities as europeans, we will strengthen the atlantic alliance. and if, as mr solana and mr patten have just said, we meet those expectations and if you, mr solana, and the commission commit yourselves to seeking dialogue with us when we consider it necessary, my group will be behind you. in that sense, i wish you good luck in your work! (applause) i would like to thank
- (es) mr president, mr high representative for the common foreign and security policy, i too would like to congratulate you very warmly on your appointment to this new post of high representative and wish you all the luck your post will need for you, and in particular the european union, to succeed. now that i have said this in your language, i regret to have to continue in german, so please put your headphones on.
president of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the joint presence of mr solana and mr patten is symbolic, because they will succeed together. and if they don't work together, they'll both fail. it is in our common interest that they succeed because it will be our success too, and we will help them to succeed. to this end, it is also necessary that the new troika finally begin its work. as i understand it, the finnish presidency has sent the former troika to russia. the new show, of which you are both part, should be returning to the stage abroad in the future. since 1990, when the two blocs ceased to clash, europe has again seen conventional regional wars arising from traditional ethnic antagonisms, border conflicts and other problems leading to violence. we europeans have not responded to it, as the case of the former yugoslavia shows. the efforts now being made with the common security and defence initiative represent an attempt to find this european response, and this in the sense of prevention. prevention, mr sakellariou, will only work if it is based on a credible military force! these two aspects must be linked. only then can we take this prevention seriously and i hope it will work. i believe that if we all make efforts, it is possible to achieve synergy effects in the setting up of troops for conflict management, with the aim of creating a joint arms agency. we are all aware of the tightness of the budgets and i believe that with the help of these synergy effects the goal can be achieved. we must not do this through costly structures of our own, but wherever possible - as provided for in the nato decision taken in berlin in 1996 - in addition to nato structures and by using nato structures. i think this is the right way forward because it will also strengthen the transatlantic links and create for us europeans a capacity for action where we need it. i think it would also mean that we would be able to shoulder our responsibilities together or separately, but not against our traditional partners. the european union, with a common currency, an internal market and a common legal order, has a common interest in the establishment of a common security and defence policy. but we must also understand that such an idea is not viable if security differs from one region to another. for this reason, the intergovernmental conference should try to make article 5 of the weu treaty into a protocol to the eu treaty to which each country could accede on the basis of a sovereign decision. in other words, none of the neutral or non-aligned countries is obliged to sign it, but all of this would be governed in the sense of credibility and common interests. the whole package will then be credible and in line with the common interest and we can move forward on this basis so that the appointment of mr solana as weu secretary-general and the integration of weu can be completed and we do not have to keep a kind of shell for article 5.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. - (es) mr president, in the few minutes we have left, i will try to make two or three general remarks on the questions which have been raised in this sitting. but first of all, let me thank all the members of the various parliamentary groups who have used their speaking time wisely and who have wished me or us good luck in this endeavour. i can tell them that i will use all my will, all my energy and all my political experience to try to carry out this task successfully, in collaboration with the other institutions. i think, as one of the speakers very rightly said, that the europe that is entering the 21st century is a better europe than the one that many of us dreamed of and that it still has a long way to go for the dreamers. it is undeniable that we have a single currency, that we have made progress in the economic sphere and that the time has come to make progress in the political sphere, and in particular in the sphere of foreign and security policy. and you will always find me working in that direction and in that light. i would like to make three points to sum up the many questions that have been raised. first, on foreign policy in the strict sense of the term. after the cologne summit, we have acquired new instruments - one of them concerns common strategies - which must undoubtedly lead to a profound change in the way we approach foreign policy. common strategies - some of which have already been defined - must involve pooling all the resources available to the union and the member states to carry out a policy. we have been lacking them until now. this is no longer the case thanks to the decisions taken in cologne and, very concretely, they are already part of a common strategy with russia. that must be our centre of gravity if we are to succeed. the second topic i wanted to address - as many of you have already mentioned - is concern about crisis management and prevention. i would like to say - and i will only refer to the lucid intervention of mr pierre schori - that i agree that it is not enough to get to the end and that we must try to prevent it from the beginning; that's what we're trying to do. the amsterdam treaty establishes an early warning unit whose purpose is to be alert to what can happen to try to prevent it from happening and not having to act militarily or collectively if we are able to do everything in our power through diplomacy, through prevention. let me share with you a personal experience that i have lived with great sadness. when we started to deal with the crisis in bosnia, there was a development in military planning, in the deployment of troops -- remember, 60,000 troops were deployed in bosnia -- that supplanted the civilian planning that should have been done. this difference in pace between the two has led to conclusions and consequences which we regret today and which i regret personally. in line with what has been said, i would like to see all the components - the civilian, police and military components - of any crisis management, peacekeeping operation planned with a global vision in mind. so the situation in kosovo would have been better today, and it would have been better in bosnia in the past. finally, i would like to make a brief comment on a current issue which - i think you will find it interesting - has been raised. an important meeting of the organization for security and cooperation in europe will begin this evening or tomorrow morning. the worthy representative of the left group said that the osce, the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, must continue to be at the heart of pan-european security. he also said the same about the crisis in chechnya. in the next few hours we shall have the wonderful opportunity to try to make the osce a major organisation and at the same time to enable it to play the role in europe that it has not been allowed to play. there is a certain contradiction in the attitude of the russian authorities, who, if i may use the expression, greatly appreciate and cherish the organization for security and cooperation in europe and at the same time do not allow it to play its proper role. i can tell you that tomorrow and the day after tomorrow the european union will do everything possible to ensure that the organisation for security and cooperation in europe plays an important role, in line with its obligations, when a new charter for security in europe is to be signed. it would be a real extravaganza, so to speak, if at the time when we are about to sign a new charter of collective security in europe through the osce, this organization could not fulfil its mission in the context of the conflict we are currently facing in the caucasus. ladies and gentlemen, a number of questions have been put and it would be too long to answer them all. i can tell you that i have taken note of all the questions, that they will all be answered shortly, and that, as i said at the beginning, i will be at your disposal at any time to try to realize the dream of many of you, a dream that i share. thank you for your support, for your cooperation. we will be in touch over the coming months and years to carry forward this noble cause which we all take on with great pleasure. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on the eu approach to the wto millennium cycle is in line with the work of the former committee on foreign trade, which adopted a position on the marrakesh, singapore and geneva negotiating cycles by a large majority. the continuous dialogue with former commissioner sir leon brittan during 1998 and early 1999 also contributed to the full incorporation of many of parliament's proposals in the commission's communication of 14 july 1999. the keyword has always been the establishment of free and fair world trade in the interests of the european economy and its workers. so we're just going to continue with our previous work. i would like to thank the new commissioner responsible, mr lamy, for his excellent cooperation with the european parliament over the last two months. since the new commission has taken office, we have had an intensive dialogue, and i think it has been fruitful so far. the european union now needs to clarify and weigh up the overall approach to the negotiations and integrate it into the political framework of a general strategy. this millennium cycle should be accompanied by concrete recommendations which - in accordance with rule 97 (5) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament - give us the opportunity to follow and influence the work before the conclusion of the new agreement and to use our influence. a first set of recommendations could be formulated at the beginning of the year 2000. we could go back in detail to many of the proposals made in recent days by the committee on foreign trade. in seattle, the council and the commission must be firm in defending the european union's overall approach to negotiations. we also call in our report for the commission to be successful and to come back with the expected results. our approach to negotiations must reflect our importance as the world's largest trading area and our responsibility for a global economic balance of interests, especially with developing countries. where should the emphasis be placed? what does it matter? the development of a global trade order? the opening of markets? the defence of our european economic and social model, the social and ecological market economy? community policies developed in the interests of citizens and consumers? in my opinion, everything, even if these elements have a tense relationship. all these objectives are equally important to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, as the vote on monday evening shows. the european union must now achieve a greater opening up of world markets. customs duties must be reduced, technical barriers to trade must be removed. our markets should also be more open to developing countries, especially those with the greatest backlog, and to acp countries. citizens' understanding should be promoted and strengthened through greater transparency of the wto regulatory framework and dispute settlement procedures. on the other hand, the european union's obligations under other international agreements, such as those concluded with the world health organisation or the international labour organisation, must also be visible and respected. we are, however, opposed to unnecessary overburdening of the wto regulatory framework with other objectives than the main one of trade liberalisation and non-discrimination between the parties. for example, the core labour standards and social clauses adopted by the ilo in 1998 should be kept in a permanent forum between the ilo and the wto and included in the discussion, without changing the wto regulatory framework. if we start from the principle that fair and free world trade was the basis for the increase in prosperity of many states and their populations and in particular of the developing countries, we must also admit that the european union, as the world's largest economic power, has every interest in continuing this successful development and in involving more and more countries. to do that, we need allies. we must link our interests with those of the applicant countries and our neighbours in europe and with those of the developing countries, especially the acp countries. we also need a permanent dialogue with the american government, congress and people, a dialogue which shows the wisdom of our motives and which generates mutual understanding in order to strike a reasonable balance between our interests and those of our partner. through increased trade, we contribute to world peace, to well-being and, if we organise ourselves properly, to greater social justice. the extent of our responsibility determines our strategy. it must be global, promote a global balance of benefits and be convincing to our partners. the contracting parties must enjoy the freest possible access to all the world's markets. the rules in force in this field must be fair and based on mutual recognition of the advantages and observance of the obligations. the four fundamental freedoms of the internal market - free movement, free movement of goods, services and capital - must be globally valid objectives. we are in favour of the conclusion of multilateral environmental agreements which would then be taken into consideration in the wto. in the area of services, a growing market especially for european suppliers, market access and new sectors must be included. the european parliament should be consulted on this matter. we are in favour of sustainable integration and the promotion of electronic commerce within the gatt framework. the decisions of the uruguay round on public procurement must be applied. in the long term, many of the bilateral investment protection agreements will have to be replaced in the world trade organisation by a comprehensive multilateral regulation. competition in open markets must be more effective. the creation of competent authorities is necessary. the european model of sustainable agriculture, which is based not only on food production but also on the preservation of the countryside, the environment and our quality products, must be maintained. the attacks must be responded to in the light of the increasing aid policy of the us government. i would like to conclude with a comment on development cooperation. it must be updated and extended in the framework of the partnership with the acp countries. the world trade order is based essentially on the contribution of europeans and americans. in the 1960s, at the same time as the introduction of the common external tariff, we introduced a policy of reducing customs barriers and opening up the market during the kennedy and other cycles. the result was the conquest of new markets in third countries, but also the opening up of our markets to other industrialized countries. finally, i would like to thank the secretariat, our advisers and all those who have worked on this report in parliament. we didn't have much time. our technical services - like the others - have done an excellent job. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - (de) mr president, the new role of europe in the world will be determined by reasons of foreign and security policy, but also by the balance of social, economic and political needs. the next round of wto negotiations is therefore of exceptional importance and europe must speak with one voice in order to ensure that socially and environmentally sustainable growth also benefits from the evolution of world trade. since 1990 there has been an explosion of mergers and the power of multinational corporations. it is therefore essential that the millennium cycle develops a multilateral framework against private restraints on competition. an international competition order must establish minimum standards to prevent countervailing behaviour such as cartel formation, abuse of dominant position or vertical or horizontal restrictions of competition. these minimum standards must include the obligation on wto member states to bring their competition laws into line with multilateral agreements and standards. in other words, the millennium cycle should not create a world cartel office but subject domestic competition regulations to control. it would be contrary to the rules of gatt, gats and the wto for free and fair world trade to apply between states but not between private economic actors. monopolies and cartels are harmful to consumers and companies. the microsoft case in the united states has shown this. the increasing willingness of transnational companies to merge and the impotence of states to deal with the formation of monopolies, oligopolies and cartels are endangering the objectives of world trade, which are to contribute to prosperity and peace. in addition, it is also essential that we understand that the weakening of growth in the world economy is also dependent on the instability of the international financial system. this international financial system is characterised by huge, rapid and global financial transactions and a detachment from the real economy, but it has implications for investment, growth and employment. the millennium cycle must therefore contribute to the coherence of trade, economic, monetary and financial policies in the world economy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - (de) mr president, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, of which i have the honour of being the rapporteur, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this well-balanced resolution. i believe that he has succeeded in sending three signals through his report: a signal of the european union's firmness to its global partners, a signal of our humane vision of globalisation to our people and a signal of the parliamentary dimension of the wto process to our citizens. in this resolution, parliament fully covers the commission in view of the seattle negotiations. our message to our partners is simple: we strongly support our envoys, as strongly, i would say, as the alps are rooted in europe. all parties must be aware of this. our second signal is to the people who are skeptical about globalisation. we want to create a global framework for markets. we can and we will make globalisation work. the market organization will go hand in hand with its global development. we are pursuing a liberal and anti-protectionist policy here. the losers of globalisation, or those who feel they have been wronged by globalisation, should know that they have a lawyer. finally, we would like to stress that this millennium cycle also has a parliamentary dimension. it is essential because it is no longer just a question of reducing customs duties or quotas, but also of basic things such as social issues, environmental protection or fair competition. we must also make this clear to the non-governmental organizations. the place for political debate on the millennium cycle in europe is the european parliament. governments don't talk to ngos.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the millennium cycle and its opening are to be a success, certain problems must be raised from the outset. of course, these must be the areas - i will mention a few - in which the committee on the environment has in the past identified shortcomings, failures and errors, and where it has found that this is the case. i shall mention those which the committee on the environment has considered to be of paramount importance. firstly, we must have a clear definition of the precautionary principle, a definition as adopted at the rio conference on environment and development. this precautionary principle must be embedded in the wto rules. secondly, it must be possible to implement multilateral environmental conventions without creating conflicts with the world trade organisation. thirdly, the question of consumer information on processing and production methods, known in our language by their abbreviation ppm, and the possibility for member states to take non-discriminatory measures. these issues must be included in the wto negotiations. let me say a word about the dispute settlement procedure. this procedure, which has always been a problem in the past - and many of the problems concerned environmental policy, consumer protection and animal welfare - must be made more transparent. it must ensure that scientific expertise is independent and unequivocal and that it is also recognised. it is unacceptable, as we have seen in the case of hormones, that the european union can provide scientific expertise on the dangers of hormones and yet we are obliged to pay compensation. such situations cannot happen again in the future. these are just some of the main points raised by other members, because everyone will say that the environment and consumer protection must be on the agenda of the world trade organisation. i thank the rapporteurs and my colleagues on the committee on industry for including in the final report - which is not obvious and is not always the case - many of the points adopted by the committee on the environment. these points were well received in the rapporteur's amendments and in the compromise amendments, so that much of what the committee on the environment considered essential for seattle was taken up in mr schwaiger's report. that is why i invite you, mr lamy, and the commission to raise these and other issues as soon as the negotiating cycle opens and to ensure that we can continue to work in the next few years in the framework of this cycle so that the world trade organisation is what we wanted it to be: a social, fair, environmentally friendly trade organisation which allows us to trade, but also to let our citizens and our environment live.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i am very pleased to see that, as the schwaiger report shows, there is a broad consensus in the european union on the objectives of the next round of wto negotiations. we want a general cycle, greater liberalisation of world trade and in particular the strengthening of a rules-based system. we want to take into account the interests of developing countries and pay particular attention to environmental issues and fundamental labour rights. the support of the european parliament for these objectives is also of great importance from the point of view of the commission and the council. i would also like to say on this occasion that the commission and commissioner lamy have done an excellent job in preparing us for the wto cycle. i think, however, that the best thing to do now would be to try to briefly take stock of the current situation in geneva. the actual drafting of the ministerial declaration for seattle has finally begun. the various parts of the declaration are reviewed daily in geneva. each theme is addressed both in the conference of directors chaired by mr mchumo, president of the wto general council, and in a small informal meeting chaired by the director-general, mr moore. technical expert meetings were also held to further prepare the work. the european union, for its part, negotiated under the commission's leadership in a smaller group, which drew up variants of the texts on the main points of the ministerial declaration. we are at a crucial stage in terms of preparations. twelve days remain before the opening of the seattle conference. in geneva, he will stay until friday of this week or the weekend at the latest to finalise the declaration. the aim is to present a draft declaration in seattle containing as few parentheses and outstanding points as possible. however, it is likely that many decisions will be deferred to the ministerial conference itself. no decisive breakthrough has yet been made in the formulation of the declaration. the lausanne ministerial meeting and the clinton-prodi meeting two weeks ago did not give the political impetus to the preparations. it is recognised that although a crisis is usually necessary in trade negotiations before decisive progress can be made, the situation is currently more difficult than expected. i have to say i'm really concerned about the situation right now. there is still a great deal of disagreement on the main issue - the scope of the cycle. the ec and a dozen other wto members are still very isolated in their demand for a general round of negotiations. most wto members seem to be content with a narrower agenda, covering agriculture, services and market access for industrial products, and another topic. the situation is most blocked and difficult in agriculture. the cairns group countries and the united states are waiting for the european union to show flexibility before accepting a mandate for a general round of negotiations. for progress to be made in the examination of the file, flexibility must be shown by all parties, including us, the european union. the other difficult negotiating point was the implementation of the uruguay round agreements. there appears to be a growing consensus among wto members that implementation proposals should be classified as matters that can be decided in seattle on the one hand and as matters for which a post-seattle work programme is needed on the other. it is on the part of the declaration concerning the least developed countries that the greatest consensus seems to be present. similarly, agreement between member states on trade in services and intellectual property is increasing. the situation is still wide open as regards the so-called 'new themes'. in the area of investment and competition, it seems that the intention is not to exclude negotiations on these issues altogether, but to set up working groups to study, by the next ministerial conference, the possibilities for negotiating on these issues. the new themes, however, would not be included in the negotiating train. the european union's proposal on labour standards did not receive the support of the wto members in the general council. only the united states was in favour of the proposal. a large part of the members wish to stick to the outcome of the singapore ministerial conference. it remains to be seen how the case will develop in geneva and what decision - if any - we can expect in seattle. the european union has not yet decided definitively whether seattle labour standards should be included in the declaration or be the subject of a separate decision. we will continue our efforts to convince the developing countries of this. one of the key conditions for the success of the preparations is how the eu and the us will achieve a better mutual understanding of their respective objectives. as i have already said, the clinton-prodi meeting two weeks ago cannot be considered a decisive step forward, but it did show that there was a will on both sides to reach a solution. from the european union's point of view, it would be important to arrive at a wording of the declaration that agriculture and services are not sufficient on their own to constitute a new round of negotiations. work is therefore continuing in geneva at an accelerating pace. the european union continues to move forward with a general agenda. decisions on compromise, on any subject, will be left to seattle. it is important to maintain contact with the other parties, in particular the united states. the presidency and the member states support the commission's action to strengthen the geneva process. mr president, the general affairs council adopted on monday brief conclusions on the preparations for the ministerial conference. the council ministers expressed their concern about the progress of the geneva negotiations and encouraged the commission to continue its efforts to ensure that a general round was started. the council conclusions echo the wto conclusions adopted on 26 october and reiterate their commitment to our goal of a global cycle. only a general cycle can guarantee a balanced result for all members. in addition, the council stressed the need to be open to proposals from other countries, in particular with regard to developing countries. member states also expressed their support for the commission's action in the last-minute preparations.
- (de) mr president, the wto has succeeded in substantially increasing international trade and world economic output and in removing obstacles. but what about the raising of the quality of life, the participation in the progress of growth, the creation of new, socially acceptable jobs? to close the gap between the least and most developed economies, social and environmental standards and consumer and health protection must be adopted. this is not a playground for illusionists, quite the opposite. in doing so, we shall be able to secure the support of a large part of public opinion. we must ensure that the exception becomes the states which allow or even attract production guided only by short-term benefits and which prove to be harmful to the environment and cement social abuses. the committee on employment and social affairs is unanimous in its view that states which meet basic social and environmental standards must be supported in their integration into the world economy. the flow of products for which indications are lacking, such as those relating to organic production or guaranteed production without the use of child labour, must be made more and more difficult. the wto rules must be amended so that these voluntary declarations can no longer be prevented. there are two other items on the agenda for seattle. first, investment agreements based on the ilo declaration on multinational enterprises and the oecd guidelines on workers' rights. secondly, the creation of a permanent forum between the wto and the ilo to discuss fundamental labour rights, the abolition of forced labour and slavery, the prohibition of child labour and the prohibition of discrimination. the excellent report by mr schwaiger - who is able to find a consensus and a majority - makes it clear that this is not a purely commercial policy, but rather the fair participation of all countries, social progress and the application of human rights. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we adopted mr schwaiger's report in committee on monday evening by a comfortable majority and i must say that i am pleased with the way in which mr schwaiger has conducted the negotiations in general. he showed a lot of openness. this has allowed us to have compromises which are not really compromises in the sense that they would negate the positions held by certain groups and we have really struggled to find a european compromise, a european wording which supports the position of the council and the commission. that's what this is about. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council very sincerely for highlighting the difficulties encountered in opening this new round of negotiations in seattle. we must be realistic and not have any illusions: it will not be easy to win acceptance of the european model we seek and hope to impose in seattle in the face of the interests of the other partners. i wish you, mr lamy, and all the others, a happy hand. i can assure you of the support of my group. we will give you the support you need without compromise. the difficult start also means, however - let us not be under any illusions - that the old consensus which influenced world trade and the rules governing it and which assumed that national benefits were essentially positive, is beginning to crumble. within the richest nations, and particularly in the united states, which has benefited most from open markets, there is growing - ironically, i would say - alongside the rise of international competitors in the world trade organization, skepticism and concern that globalisation also leads to impoverishment, environmental destruction and loss of national sovereignty. with the loss of foreign policy in general, there is also a growing desire to replace it with foreign trade. the socialist group fully supports the commission and council's intention to conduct global negotiations. only this strategy ensures that all aspects of interest to europeans are really taken into account. only then will we see where the losses and gains for european countries and citizens lie in the end. that is why we are in favour of a single undertaking procedure. nothing is decided until all the issues are settled. it is also necessary that parliament be properly informed and involved. this is particularly important because many of the issues, especially the new ones - several members have already spoken about them - are highly emotional, such as how we can include investment, competition rules, social and labour standards, etc., in the negotiating cycle. parliament must be fully involved. the citizens, non-governmental organisations and businesses of the european union will be following the seattle negotiations more closely than ever and will be interested in whether global trade will be overall fairer, more social and more balanced and whether it will serve the interests of everyone. the strongly skeptical attitude towards an unbridled process of globalisation will mark these negotiations. we social democrats therefore need to determine where the opportunities lie and where the process of globalisation can exert a positive influence in the future. let us not be fooled: less wto does not automatically mean less globalisation. it is an illusion! it means less grip on globalization. in this respect, i would like to say again that the commission and the council will have our support. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, i cannot agree with mr väyrynen that this parliament does not have enough credibility. two months ago, we were the only international institution to take a clear stand, even though not everyone agreed. i am glad that everyone is now in the same boat and that the council and the commission are defending what we said then on this subject and adopted by a narrow majority in this house. but, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has changed and we have now realised that it is not enough to speak harshly to russia. we have to live with the consequences. we must stop funding this war, which happens to be a bloody colonial war for oil, as well as a particularly brutal form of electoral struggle. in other words, we must make clear cuts in financial contributions, including tacis funds, commissioner. on the other hand, we must make it clear to our partner that he will no longer be a murderer. this should be a matter of course between the states. i would like to put an end to some of the rumours here. we never talk about the democratically elected government of chechnya. this is not an internal russian matter. this government was elected under the supervision of the osce as part of a ceasefire agreement for which the osce acted as mediator. we must firmly support this government against moscow's failure to respect this agreement, against this violation of international law by moscow reviving the kgb-operated puppet parliament, as it existed in moscow before the agreement, in order to have a paid interlocutor. we must also silence the noise that this is a response to terrorism. mr cohn-bendit is right: we do not know who carried out the bombings in moscow and we condemn them. there's a lot of things here that suggest a sordid plot. we must say openly that those who drop bombs on civilians are not fighting terrorists, but are creating new ones, because they are traumatizing whole generations who will suffer the consequences of this particularly brutal form of colonialism. that is why we must adopt a clear and energetic policy and not be satisfied with the alibis we have heard in recent months, also from our governments. i would urge the council and the commission to make the same unequivocal statement tomorrow at the osce summit as the european parliament did in its resolution.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days i have had the opportunity to speak with both the russian side - represented by mr ritchkov of the duma - and the chechen side, led by mr akhmadov. the picture that we see is incredibly complicated as a whole. the russians are doing everything they can to make this military intervention a success. they're denying civilian casualties. they say that the chechen refugees, who now number over 300,000, are not living in a precarious situation and that russian politicians are increasingly using the conflict as a propaganda tool, and with success. some 95% of the population support the war against the chechens. however, russia is accusing the entire chechen people of being terrorists, which we cannot accept. that is why we are calling for a political dialogue, a political solution and we are considering the use of the means of pressure at our disposal, namely the blocking of new tacis projects or the refusal to grant food aid to russia. humanitarian aid is fine, projects for democracy are fine, but no more! even though we know that the discussions and negotiations on the non-compliance of the trade agreements and the steel agreement by the russians will be very difficult for the european union. we cannot fight terrorism by military violence against an entire people. i come now to a very different subject, a very different question: the european parliament has insisted in all its resolutions that chechnya is part of the russian federation. i really do not understand how a chechen minister for foreign affairs, a post which does not exist under international law, can have an official discussion with the president of the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank i find this an extremely difficult decision to make. the groups have been informed - i thank you for having had the opportunity to speak to mr achmadov about this - but there have been no official meetings of this kind in this house. this is a very unusual course of action.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not need to remind you of what the commission and the council have said about the situation in chechnya. i would just like to emphasize one thing that can serve as a basis for our joint resolution on chechnya: the suffering of the civilian population, the hundreds of victims, the 200,000 refugees and their situation at the beginning of winter, the disproportionate reaction of the russian government and the indiscriminate bombing. i have the impression that what we are witnessing here is no longer a legitimate fight against terrorist acts but a struggle for political influence at the expense of the population. (applause) for this reason, our parliament must be clear about what it wants and what it does not want. i'll summarize this. firstly, we do not question the right of the russian government to fight terrorism in dagestan. secondly, we do not want to under any circumstances challenge the territorial integrity of the russian federation. thirdly, we cannot accept that airplanes bomb civilians! i condemn these bombings, just as i condemned a few months ago the bombings of novi sad, belgrade and nis, which were designated as 'collateral damage'.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing in this second war in chechnya is doubly tragic. the european union must not allow the chechen people to be the victims of this war, and the russian policy in the caucasus will not lead to a solution but to an aggravation of the problems. we are witnessing a certain degree of destabilization in this region, which will eventually have other consequences. today, i heard, russian planes bombed a georgian village. this creates the risk that the conflict will not remain a purely russian conflict and will spread beyond russia's borders. this is a problem and an argument which must be addressed by the international community and, of course, by the european parliament. this parliament has been concerned at length, and i think rightly so, during the last partsession with the problem of this second war in chechnya. we have taken a clear position. we shall also take a unanimous position on the resolution we are discussing today. it is necessary and right! i also agree with commissioner patten that we absolutely cannot cut off communication with the russians. we will only succeed in persuading and exerting influence by intensifying discussions with our russian partners. as mr oostlander has already mentioned, we received a russian parliamentary delegation in this house last week. i can only tell you - and this is the big problem with this second war in chechnya - that unlike the first war, the russian parties represented in the duma are almost all in agreement and unfortunately support the policy of the putin government. this shows the need for dialogue and what we have to do. i think the idea of improving contacts with the russian parliament through an ad hoc delegation is important. however, i also think that now that the russians have asked us to serve as observers for the parliamentary elections, we should seriously consider this invitation from the russian parliament because it can contribute to dialogue and the development of democracy and perhaps to better politics in russia.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, we have had a really excellent debate on this subject here in parliament. the concern of the european parliament is, in my view, a very appropriate message about the ideas of the european union. we all have the same view on this, the commission, the council and parliament. what is important is that we all make it clear to russia - and that message is clear - that the use of violence against the civilian population must stop, that negotiations must be started with legally appointed representatives in chechnya, that humanitarian aid is needed, that it must be able to reach the region, and that the osce should play a leading role in solving the crisis. i can assure you that the president of the council will work with determination towards these objectives. i also wish mr patten every success in the negotiations in istanbul.
- (de) mr president, i would just like to ask you to convey our thanks to the president of parliament for receiving the representative of a government elected under the auspices of the osce, recognized within the council of europe and appointed in accordance with the russian constitution.
(de) mr president, mr schwaiger, your report is certainly comprehensive, but it is a little too frivolous and i regret that some points are missing. where is the demand for analysing the effects of the wto on developing countries, on the environment, on the eu, on existing treaties before starting the next round of negotiations? mr lamy, to say that we do not have the instruments or the methods for this, that these have yet to be created, is simply ridiculous! as regards the revision of the lomé conventions, which are unique in their kind, it is constantly repeated that they should no longer exist in this form, that they are not in conformity with the wto. but our demand must be that the rules of the game in world trade should be guided by the needs of the citizens of our countries and of the developing countries. they must respond to sustainability and social needs and not to the interests of multinationals and their shareholders. the essential requirement is that and not a new round of liberalization which only serves to put people in competition on a global scale for miserable wages and deplorable social and ecological conditions. we believe that the wto must be reformed in depth before negotiations can continue. a fair, social, ecological and solidarity-based world trade must be our goal!
- (de) madam president, mr rapporteur, the greens opposed the wto as early as 1994, because there were many doubts about this international giant which seizes everything that is not in line with the market. over the last five years, that is precisely what has happened. the majority of the population became increasingly poor, while a thin layer of profiteers, mainly industrial groups, reaped increasingly large profits. the wto leaves behind it masses of losers and losers in a gaping chasm of injustice. in 1994 a significant number of members shared our reservations about the social and ecological damage caused by the wto. but in the end, most of them nevertheless voted in favour of the world trade organization, assuming that the problems would solve themselves through trade. today, new voices are suddenly being heard, speaking of social and ecological needs to be met. but in the end a majority of this house will again vote for this agreement, even though nothing is resolved and even though in geneva it seems every day more unlikely that a millennium cycle will simply take place. so our first request is to identify the mistakes and learn from them. however, many of my colleagues do not want any assessment of the effects of the wto so far. why on earth would you refuse an analysis with such vehemence? is this not the same as protecting something that does not work, namely the ideology of the free market? to clarify the contradictions of the trips agreement: 90% of biological resources come from the south, but 97% of seed patents are owned by companies from industrialized countries. so the rich northern part has access to genetic information. with the trips agreement, the south is treated in an increasingly harsh manner: traditional remedies are still classified as a discovery while medicines based on them and developed by the pharmaceutical industry must be considered an invention. finally, the trips agreement is, among other things, contrary to the convention on biological diversity, encourages commercial piracy and is protectionist. it prevents any autonomous development in developing countries, but also here. in conclusion, while we are celebrating the triumph of free trade here, everything is falling apart in geneva. the draft declarations drawn up so far are totally unacceptable, both for us and for the developing countries. even health, culture and education would have to be sacrificed to the free market. the status quo clause must prevent our legislation from being developed further. a report which does not focus on these problems fails to take account of the crux of the matter: the rapid consolidation of the interests of a few by the exploitation of nature and of human beings.
- (de) mr president, the new wto cycle sends out signals that cannot be ignored. so even the us and china have now come closer on the wto issue. this is what we have been working on for many years in the eu-china delegation. the wheel of history, which we are also shaping, is therefore turning in a constructive and gradual way, insofar as the concepts and ideas, the endurance and the charisma of those responsible are convincing. this applies both from a horizontal and sectoral point of view. this is of course also true, and particularly so, for the maritime sector. waterways connect the roads and continents of our globe, and they are rich in natural resources that are not yet exhausted. thanks to new technological developments, shipping and shipbuilding can now once again become sectors of the future. who would have thought that a few years ago ? we are also working to ensure that fishing is an important part of the economy. despite a fundamentally different method of exploitation, i therefore call on mr cunha, for example, as rapporteur on agriculture, to ensure that the fisheries sector is also taken into account, especially as mr cunha is also my coordinator in the committee on fisheries. who wants to argue with that ? despite its small budget, an efficient fishing activity is a significant part of a dynamic eu trade and budgetary policy and should be considered as a stand-alone commercial sector and an important food industry. it also means a high number of jobs on the ground - in the eu, in third countries, all over the world. if we lose them, we weaken these already structurally weak regions in a totally irresponsible way! but let us beware of looking to the wto as the universal remedy for all our problems. only by building on a sound position at home can we convince the competitors of the globe. a fully liberalised market may also involve exploitation of fish stocks beyond their reproductive capacity. i therefore hope that we will have responsible, sustainable and partnership-friendly fishing and i wish mr schwaiger and his team every success in the negotiations, also in our favour. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, three brief remarks on the theme of the millennium and cultural diversity. firstly, the eu is a success, it is an economic community that has built on open markets and has brought social security and economic well-being to individuals. but the european union is not only an economic community; it is also a community of values. these values and the safeguarding of europe's cultural diversity are indispensable, particularly at a time of global economic expansion. i would therefore like to thank mr schwaiger, the rapporteur, for his excellent report on the support for this european cultural heritage. in the meantime, there are two objectives. on the one hand, the dynamic development of electronic services must not be hindered. on the contrary, it must be facilitated, because it guarantees more jobs for the future in europe and worldwide than any other sector. but on the other hand, the diversity of our cultural heritage must also be able to be supported and encouraged in the future in europe through measures of promotion, also by the member states. the schwaiger report makes both of these objectives possible. that is why he deserves our full support.
(de) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i join in the thanks that have been repeatedly sent to mr schwaiger. he did a good job. this report addresses the important points and above all states that we fundamentally support the commission and the council. but we are putting more emphasis on certain problems than the commission and the council have done so far. i would take environmental standards as an example. we do not want to discuss only the environmental damage caused in europe by products from other countries, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, we also want to talk more about production methods, ppm, in other countries and not just about labelling but also about how we can prevent environmental damage on a global scale through trade measures. the liberals have tabled a very good amendment in committee, and it is in this resolution under paragraph 47. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in conformity with the treaty. the wto judgment on shrimps and turtles provides at least a starting point for this argument. the shrimp are the same whether they have been caught in the interests of animal welfare or not. the wto said that in principle it was possible to discuss it. in this context, it is important that we also discuss climate protection, because in rio in 1992 and in kyoto in 1997 the world agreed that this is a huge problem that we must tackle together. it must therefore also be possible to implement climate protection measures within the wto. in conclusion, i would like to support all those who have spoken in favour of a courageous stance towards the least developed countries. i would like to stress, however, that it is not just the acp countries that are concerned, but that there are many other countries which we must help more. i am one of those who advocate total duty-free treatment for all products and who oppose the establishment of a list of sensitive products from which we would still define exceptions.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- baron crespo, i don't have any information at the moment. we are waiting for that, however, and i think that in the next debate what you are asking for will be done. i can't say anything more at this time.
- i take note, baron crespo, and we'll ask the services to settle this quickly.
- the next item is the report (a5-0058/1999) by mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the preparation of the reform of the treaties and the next intergovernmental conference (c5-0143/1999 - 1999/2135 (cos)).
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, the committee on constitutional affairs has discussed this report in detail at several sittings and i believe that we are presenting a substantial report to the house on the reform of the treaties. i must thank my colleague mr dimitrakopoulos for the excellent cooperation and also the division of labour which has enabled us to carry out this vast task. we agree that fundamental reform is needed before the union is enlarged to include new states, in order to preserve the effectiveness of the european union and, i would add, to improve the transparency and the ability to monitor decisions within european politics. we ask parliament to ensure that the reform we are about to see goes beyond the three amsterdam leftovers. these are important questions, but they are not enough. i would like to mention five points which i have made in my part of the report. firstly, we call for reform of all institutions and bodies, including the court of justice, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions. all these institutions must be put to the test. the reform of the council is the central point. in parallel with the intergovernmental conference, the council of ministers must carry out internal reform as called for in the trumpf-pires report, and the reform must be centred on the rule of majority voting in the council and, as a corollary, also on the co-decision of this parliament in all legislative acts. i think that parliament will also judge the intergovernmental conference on the basis of the success of this reform of the council. secondly, the intergovernmental conference must help to improve democratic control in european politics. parliament must be better able to control the commission and hold it to account. we are asking here that the president of the commission be given the opportunity to put the question of confidence to the european parliament and that the 'prodi procedure', whereby the president can dismiss a member of the commission, be inserted in the next treaty. thirdly, we believe that the reorganization of the treaties, which leads to a certain constitutionalization of the union, is now important. at present, no citizen or expert understands the treaties - they are not legible. if we want to be close to the citizens, we must unify the treaties into a single text and distinguish between two parts, a constitutional part and a second part, which must then also be partially subject to a simplified revision procedure. fourthly, the reform of the treaties requires not only an ambitious content but also a new method. a closed-door debate is no longer relevant and no longer acceptable. parliament must be involved in all phases of the preparation and conduct of the intergovernmental conference. in accordance with article 48, we call for the community method, we await a concrete proposal from the commission, which will serve as a basis for the negotiations, and an agreement with the council and the commission on the agenda and procedure for the next intergovernmental conference. article 48 is itself on the agenda of the intergovernmental conference. we believe that the union's dual legitimacy as a union of states on the one hand and as a union of peoples on the other must be taken into account by giving parliament a co-decision power in future revision negotiations when it comes to debating the content of future treaties. in this parliament we are ready to work together on a thorough reform of the treaties and to ensure that after enlargement the european union is still able to take the necessary decisions while remaining transparent so that citizens can understand and accept it. after the commission presented its proposals last week, parliament is doing so this week. many of my colleagues wanted to go much further, even calling for the drafting of a european constitution. we have exercised discipline and have been held within the broad framework of the institutional request. it is now up to the governments to show discernment and courage in helsinki to adopt an agenda which also aims at sound reform.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - (de) mr president, the report by our colleagues mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen is parliament's first statement of position on the tasks of the next intergovernmental conference. the framework is defined - without going into all the details - we know the challenge that the europe of tomorrow must face in order to be better understood and accepted by its citizens. the greatest challenge is undoubtedly the enlargement of the union, which we support and want. this enlargement to more than 20 member states - perhaps 30 in a few years' time - can be a strengthening of the union, but it can also be a weakening of it. it is a strengthening, because europe is consolidating its identity on the basis of its political and cultural history. but at the same time, such an increase in actors on the european stage would raise institutional problems and cause considerable operational weaknesses if we fail to implement adequate measures and radical reforms of the current system in time, before enlargement. the risk of paralysis of the decision-making capacity of the legislative power, council and parliament, and of the commission's inability to put laws into practice is a considerable problem, as is the difficulty of adapting the treaties to the ever more rapidly changing reality of the community. the two rapporteurs have rightly highlighted these problems and linked them to specific policy areas. the opinion of the committee on budgetary control seeks to answer the question whether the development of control and the effective protection of the community's financial interests must be tackled by the creation of a european public prosecutor's office in accordance with the corpus juris, while taking into account subsidiarity, as commissioner barnier explained to us last week during the brussels partsession. the report presented here is, on the whole, a step in the right direction, and i would like to express my gratitude to both rapporteurs.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report we are debating today contains parliament's proposals on the reform of the european union. this reform is necessary because of the forthcoming enlargement, but also because there is now a common monetary policy between, for the time being, eleven countries. this requires that the economic policies of the member states be conducted at least according to common principles. the economic system of the treaty of rome has proved its worth as the foundation of the community's economic policy. it is a system of market opening. in some member states, a term has come into use to designate this system, the 'social market economy'. i would recommend that this expression be used in the treaty. this is also the view of the majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. an important part of the economic policy of the member states is tax policy. here, the european internal market has created competition between systems, which, in the area of value added tax, for example, has led to a convergence of rates. the internal market is not complete in this area, however, because we have not yet moved to the country of origin principle as envisaged. this shows that the need for unanimity in the council paralyses decisions and therefore harms economic activity. as a result, our economic growth is slowing down and unemployment is rising. it is therefore necessary to allow qualified majority voting in the council, at least for procedures concerning the recovery of taxes applicable on a cross-border basis. another problematic issue is the still insufficient involvement of the parliament in the legislative procedures relating to competition. competition is the key to the competitiveness of our industry and therefore a condition for the viability of europe. that is why we are also asking for the european parliament's co-decision on the legislative procedures in this area. what we are asking for is a strengthening of the role of parliament and the establishment of the principle of majority voting in the council in areas where the treaties already give europe a key role, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs. you've done a really complicated and difficult job. i think that parliament, as the representative of the people, will have to work hard in the next intergovernmental conference if it is to be able to meet the high expectations of the people of the union and of the applicant countries. our group will be taking an active part in the debate with its own proposals. we are fighting above all for the creation of a truly social and democratic europe, a europe which preserves the european social model, a europe in which the public service is not dismantled and in which everything is done to prevent social dumping. it is clear to us that the amsterdam leftovers must not remain the only subject of the intergovernmental conference. in view of the enlargement we all want, the union and its member states must finally have the courage to carry out profound reforms so that europe, still divided politically, can unite democratically and in the social contract. i find what is being done in the field of foreign and security policy worrying, even frankly alarming; the european union is not a military union, but a political union. the european parliament's report calls for the union to finally have a capacity for action, a capacity for action based on credible military means. i ask you all: what are the credible military means? what about land mines, tanks, or even nuclear weapons? the foreign and defence ministers set out the way forward last monday in brussels. it was a historic milestone. by 2003, a rapid reaction force under the aegis of the eu should be created, in effect a european army of 50,000 men for crisis operations within and around europe. the german newspaper die welt described this yesterday in this way: the traditional defence of europe remains the sole responsibility of nato, the eu's intervention force does not compete with it but becomes its new asset. in this context, our group had already put forward a proposal in the committee to state that the union rejected war as a means of resolving international conflicts. i simply cannot believe that this proposal has not received a majority in the committee. our group will put this proposal before the house again tomorrow. we shall ask for a rollcall vote because we believe that the people have a right to know who in this house considers the war legitimate.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the finnish presidency of the council and mr sasi for the commitment with which they are undertaking this difficult task of defining the mandate and also to thank the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done. but at the same time i would also like to reply to mrs kaufmann who has just quoted the anti-class newspaper die welt: the party of which she was a member was the only german party to order a war of aggression after the second world war, namely against czechoslovakia, and it would therefore be advisable to refrain from making such remarks. this intergovernmental conference has a very busy schedule, because it must be completed on time so as not to delay enlargement, and at the same time it must prepare the european union for enlargement, which means that it is subject to a very tight deadline and faces a great challenge. this preparation for enlargement includes not only the amsterdam leftovers but also many issues relating to foreign and security policy, many issues which were raised, for example, by my colleague mr von wogau in the context of monetary union, and many others. the question of majority decision-making is the key question for the success of this conference if the european union is to be ready for enlargement and if this european parliament must also approve this enlargement. it is therefore necessary to clearly identify the areas where majority decision-making is necessary. majority decision-making is necessary in the field of tax policy, but not for all taxes. it is necessary in the field of social policy but not for social policy as a whole. this must be made clear, just as it must be made clear, with regard to the european parliament's co-decision in agricultural policy, that in substance the whole of agricultural policy is not legislative in nature, but only a small part of the 3 000 legal acts - perhaps 20 or 30. but in these areas the european parliament must be given the right of codecision and therefore also the right to participate fully in decisions on the agricultural budget. in the field of structural policy, for example, it is becoming clear that the more member countries there are, the less likely it is that sound decisions will be taken unanimously if, in the end, the scarce means and resources must be used in such a way as to benefit the really poor regions and groups of this european union. in the field of foreign and security policy too, we need powers of control, but in the context of the implementation of the cologne decisions we must identify areas where there is still room for amendment of the treaties. i would like to point out in particular that the integration of weu into the european union will not be completed until the article 5 issue has been resolved. however, with regard to neutral member states, this article 5 can only be regulated in the framework of a protocol to the treaty, so that each country can decide in full sovereignty whether it wants to accede to this part of the treaty or not. i do not think that the european union needs new powers, but it needs the instruments to enable it to exercise the powers it has. only then will we be able to combine transparency, efficiency and democracy, because these are the three conditions for acceptance by the population. this also includes the subdivision of the council of ministers - as proposed in the dehaene report - into an executive council of ministers which can deliberate behind closed doors and a legislative council of ministers which must meet in public. because in a democratic society, it is unacceptable that a legislative body is inaccessible to the public. this is unique in the world and cannot be tolerated any longer. that is why i think the proposal for the division of the treaties, as put forward by mr dehaene, is important. in the spirit of transparency and efficiency, we should group together the constitutional parts of the treaty, including the rules of jurisdiction, and put the rest together in another treaty of a lesser quality. this is also important, so that the citizen can understand how this europe is organized. this may lead to a starting point for the convention to draw up the charter of fundamental rights, and this convention may develop into a constituent assembly, because a constitutional contract is the long-term goal we must strive for.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, believe it or not, but exactly 200 years ago, in 1799, the first discussion took place on a constitution, not for europe, but for bavaria. the reasons for this were, among other things, the establishment of competences, but also the profound territorial reorganization of an increase of almost 83 subdivisions of the territory. the main author of this idea was the minister of state of the time, count montgelas, to whom the merit of the establishment of a french administration in bavaria was attributed. however, he was also the strongest opponent of popular representation, as it could introduce into politics elements that were supposedly unpredictable. the supporters and opponents of this idea fought for another 18 years until the constitution was finally created and the opponents were finally eliminated, and this constitution already contained democratic elements. amazingly, the basis for the constitution of that time was a preamble drawn up in 1799 that set out basic rights - 200 years ago! the parallel with the subject of our concern today is astonishing. history shows that the arguments of skeptics then and now are almost identical. let us learn from history so that we do not let another decade pass before europe has a constitution. we must prepare europe for the future. i would therefore encourage the council not only to respect parliament's proposals but also to embrace them. we need a europe that is able to act, but also to take the necessary decisions. because we must also take democracy seriously, and the powers which have been entrusted to us by the national parliaments must be handed over to parliament, that is to say, entrusted to codecision. we need the co-decision of the european parliament, because the european parliament is the greatest factor in the integration of europe.
- (de) mr president, the main issues are now generally known and it was not necessary to wait for the dehaene report before they were on everyone's lips. but apart from these main objectives, without which enlargement would be hardly conceivable, we must not forget certain fundamental questions - concerning fisheries policy, of course. the amsterdam treaty has not led to a satisfactory solution for the fisheries sector. firstly, i ask - as i did in 1996 - that fisheries be specifically mentioned in the treaties. fisheries can no longer be regarded as a mere annex to agriculture. the importance of fisheries as one of the few existing community sectoral policies should be underlined by the inclusion of a specific title, which should set out the objectives of the common fisheries policy, its principles and, above all, the legal procedures leading to its regulation. secondly, parliament must be more closely involved in defining the most important issues in the fisheries sector. i am asking for real decision-making powers in the fundamental aspects of the common fisheries policy and in the basic regulations such as, for example, market organization, maintenance and management of stocks, regulations and control instruments and structural policy. this means nothing less than the co-decision of parliament. thirdly, it is also necessary, in the field of international policy, to strengthen the role of the parliament and to introduce the approval procedure for the conclusion of all international fisheries agreements. the last point: parliament's participation is also announced at meetings of the bodies of international organizations. the points mentioned, which take account of the importance of fisheries in europe, must also be discussed at the next intergovernmental conference, taking into account the role of parliament. fortunately, i have just heard from mr giorgos that a request for a compromise amendment has been tabled, which also takes up the subject of fisheries. i thank him for that. i am confident of the support of this house.
- (de) mr president, we should thank both rapporteurs. the presidencies of finland, portugal and france should be asked to follow up the proposals in this report, which rightly extends the criticism made by this european parliament of the amsterdam decisions. since mr tsatsos has drawn attention to this, i would like to stress that the proposal in paragraph 5 is really of paramount importance. it is important that we get a comprehensive proposal for a comprehensive reform, which includes the important issues of majority voting, as well as institutional reform and the development of important subjects. here, i think it is essential that we think about the constitutionalisation of the union. this demand can only be insisted on, because europe will only grow when it has a constitution. today, the interpretation and purpose of the european union are too unclear. the european parliament has rightly tabled draft constitutions on several occasions and i think they should clearly state that europe is not just a market. we must therefore also envisage a brussels republic, a community of states of a very particular kind, without historical precedent. whether the discussion on the constitution inspires more enthusiasm for europe among european citizens is not clear. the problem of legitimising a stateless space or market requires, however, that we try to move forward by measured steps towards the establishment of a european civil society and a european public opinion. we are facing a substantial shift in national sovereignty on a global scale, as states have only limited room for manoeuvre, both internally and externally, and their capacity for political initiative and problem solving is limited by the reality of international relations, interdependencies and transnational interactions. this is particularly true in the context of the economy, trade and competition. it is precisely in these areas that it is very important to move from the principle of unanimity to that of majority voting. the union must strengthen its capacity to act, and therefore a new separation of powers is necessary, by means of what is known as a catalogue of competences. in view of the new relations, a new system of distribution of powers must emerge, which would supplement the classical distribution of powers of montesquieu by a new form of distribution of powers at different levels. we need decision-making processes at several interconnected levels. the coordination processes currently in place are not sufficient to organise european added value. this is particularly apparent in the gap between political union and economic and monetary union. since we cannot improve democracy by means of interinstitutional agreements in this area, we do indeed need a revision of the treaties in this area.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dehaene report contains a proposal of historic importance, namely the division of the treaties into two parts, one part concerning fundamental, institutional law, an area which we can only change unanimously at present by means of an intergovernmental conference and a procedure for ratification by the member states, and a specific part for certain policy areas, which, instead of ratification, would require the approval of the european parliament. since the commission - and i am very grateful to mr barnier for this - has included in its proposals a similar division for the procedures for amendment, it would seem cowardly on the part of parliament's constitutional committee to accept the bipartition, but not the distinction of procedures. different procedures are also needed because without them the union would lose its capacity to act after enlargement. i thank the rapporteur, mr leinen, for his remarks on this subject, but unfortunately i do not find them in his report. i am in favour of such a two-tiered procedure, but on one condition. it must be ensured that the abolition of the ratification procedure in certain policy areas does not deprive the rights of the member states of their substance, and that the european union does not appropriate a competence of competences. this can be guaranteed by an amendment tabled by a few colleagues and myself in which we conclude and ask that a catalogue of competences be included in the basic part, which clearly defines the competences of the union, clearly delimits them and helps to assert the principle of subsidiarity. only in this way can the union improve its capacity to act - without depriving the rights of the member states of their substance - and effectively limit the work to be done in certain policy areas. i therefore ask the rapporteurs in particular to consider these two amendments with care, also in order to ensure that their report receives a large majority.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, this debate has shown that we need much more than what is adopted in our report. we have talked about fiscal policy, trade, taxation and competition. the need for reform is felt in all areas. parliament was very disciplined on this point. i think, however, that we should be just as ambitious as the commission and bring two other improvements to the vote tomorrow. i would like to repeat what was said last - to facilitate the revision of the second part of the treaties in their new bipartition and to include a clause on enhanced cooperation in a europe of 27 or 30 states. i also hope that tomorrow it will be a majority. finally, i would like to thank the commission, whose requirements are almost identical to those of parliament. it is now a matter of holding a public debate with the governments, but also with the people, so that we can also impose these requirements on the intergovernmental conference in the year 2000. i thank all those who have contributed to this work.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr leinen, you have had the misfortune of having to speak between mr von boetticher and myself. i would therefore like to remind you once again of one aspect of what mr von boetticher rightly pointed out, namely that this package of reforms also implies that a clear framework of the european union's competences be established in the constitutional part of the treaties. you may think, as i do, that the opening of accession negotiations with 12 future member states has opened our eyes to the immeasurable consequences and repercussions of enlargement on the union itself. in reality, this is not a classic membership at all. the unification of 12 new and 15 former member states is more like a new foundation. this is precisely why the need for comprehensive reforms has been stressed. i would just like to make a warning: we should not succumb to the temptation to repeat, under the banner of enlargement, the old demands we have always raised, because in reality this masks the need to consider entirely new ways of conceiving our european union. i would like to make one more brief comment on this. i am convinced that it is impossible for the european union of 27 member states to act as broadly and as deeply as the current 15 member states. we must therefore also focus on the core competences of the european union and consider the areas in which this activity of the european union is indispensable. i am sure that with good will we can find a whole series of areas where this is not the case. i would like to add one last remark: i do not wish to join the general rebuke of european centralism, but i would like to encourage a comprehensive and honest criticism of our tasks, so that we do not fear that our gains will be jeopardized by enlargement.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, it is perfectly clear that free democratic elections in yugoslavia are the only solution to the yugoslav problem. but in answer to the question put, i would say that at the moment the conditions in yugoslavia, particularly in view of the way the police are acting and their aggressive attitude towards the demonstrations and the attitude of mr milosevic's government towards the press and freedom of the press, are such that there is no possibility of considering free democratic elections in the country at this precise moment. the european union is of the opinion that it does not wish to support the regime of mr milosevic in any way or by any action. however, as the european union attaches great importance to humanitarian aspects and does not want to penalise ordinary citizens for the actions of their leaders, it has initiated a pilot project which provides for fuel deliveries to be made on a trial basis initially to the municipalities of niš and pirot, but possibly later also to other municipalities. we are anxiously awaiting to see whether the yugoslav regime and government will accept such aid measures, for at present we have not had any positive experience with this government. the danube should be cleared as soon as possible, but cooperation on this point has not been possible and yugoslavia has not taken any steps to reopen the danube to navigation, even though it is obliged to do so under international treaties.
- (de) mr president, mr president-in-office, i thank you for your clear attitude and i can only note with indignation that mr theonas is showing sympathy for a war criminal. however, i would like to ask you very specifically what the council's concrete intentions are - apart from these sanctions, which i fully approve of - in supporting the serbian opposition this winter. is there any meeting planned and are there any concrete measures to support the serbian democratic opposition? because that is what would be useful to the serbian people.
- i would ask members to ask the council questions and not to comment on the sympathies or antipathies of other members, as this naturally provokes a response. i will give mr theonas the floor for 15 seconds and ask you not to provoke a parliamentary incident. i know you won't because i know mr. theonas. i ask all members to respect the rules of procedure and to put questions to the council.
- (de) madam president, this requires some explanation. first of all, i can say that our colleague barón crespo, who is not an accomplice, but whom i respect very much with all his differences, has made things right, in that i explained to him orally that we, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, want the napolitano report to be voted on. i gave this explanation orally to our colleague barón crespo, but i did not sign the request, because i had a discussion with a representative of your firm just before receiving this request for signature. as a group of the european people's party and the european democrats, we have stated that we can and will support this request if the problems of the napolitano report are somehow resolved. these are so close to the limit that we can agree, although we are not really satisfied. we said we wanted to get this embarrassing issue over with by november. we explicitly confirm our words. but it is obviously the responsibility of the presidency of this parliament to ensure that the procedures are fully in line with the rules. we assume that the urgency can be decided in accordance with the rules. we base our vote on thursday, today, on that, so that we can end this embarrassing matter today. but we also expect everything to be regulated formally. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, i am sorry to ask for your attention for a moment. the decision we have just taken to put the napolitano report on the agenda is a problem for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. we have on the agenda mr pirker's report on eurodac, a highly controversial report which caused a controversy last night in the group of the european socialists, discussions which led me last night to ask the rapporteur mr pirker to agree to postpone the vote in brussels. he obviously disagreed. but with the decision that the plenary has just taken, namely to put the napolitano report on the agenda, it can be assumed that we will not be able to close the debate on the pirker report today, and therefore vote on it. that would mean that we would have to decide on a report of major importance, extremely controversial, with very few members present. the subject of this report does not justify this. i would therefore ask you, madam president, to support my request that, in the light of the context, this report be removed from today's agenda and deferred to the december partsession in brussels. (sighs)
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of this morning's events we have made a series of procedural errors which i hope will not have any unfortunate consequences for parliament. i would like to say to mr corbett that no member of the european parliament has ever been above the law, even if the rules of procedure are not changed in this way. we are still subject to the law and the criminal law. this must clearly be maintained, regardless of our internal regulations. this refers to the method used for checks, examinations and investigations. in this respect, i think we must ensure that the freedom of every member, including those who belong to a minority, is protected against political pressure from outside and inside, that they are not burdened with procedures which prevent them from defending themselves. this is the classic principle of the independence of the mandate, which has been conquered over the centuries, in particular to protect itself from the executive. that is the only way to allow the member to exercise control. he must have the absolute right to refuse to testify. we already have it, but the methods of application are partially suppressing it. the member can only keep information to himself when he has the right to refuse to testify and only then do people come to speak to him if they know that he must not give them away. only then can we exercise control in the sense of parliament over the executive and we should not destroy this possibility by putting everyone - whether officials, the executive or members of parliament - under one and the same article. when we go to vote and the anger has subsided, perhaps we should still have the strength to check whether, with such an objective, namely to involve members in monitoring mechanisms, we guarantee this independence of the mandate and whether we can possibly find other formulations. it is not possible in the current turmoil, but i would ask my colleagues to bear this in mind when we come back to it.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are days when it is easy to do business and there are days when it is difficult to do business. i think today is a day when difficult problems must be solved. these problems are of two kinds. there is a political problem to be solved, namely the question of the position to be taken on the fingerprinting system for asylum seekers and illegal immigrants or 'illegal aliens', as the council and the european union authorities call them, and on the controversy raised by our colleague mr pirker. i shall start with the last point, because it is always more pleasant to discuss political matters than to discuss arid articles in parliament. if anyone is responsible for our difficulties in this matter, it is the rapporteur. from the outset, mr pirker, you have tried to complicate with your amendments an already extremely controversial matter which the council had put before us. we cannot blame you for this, it is your political right, but you must nevertheless recognize that the left in this house is not here to support the restrictive work you want to do as an austrian conservative! (applause from the left) the second point i want to make is that if you are expressing your regret here about the poor socialists and the contradictions between them and the german government, you should also say so in a timely manner. mr. schily wrote you a letter, which he also addressed to mr. nassauer and myself. in his letter mr schily addressed the difficulties which we as socialists have dealt with in this consultation procedure and he took a stand on this subject with his vision as german minister of the interior. this letter has arrived in the last few days and has given rise to a lively debate in the socialist group, the result of which was that we asked you to allow us a little more time to discuss this controversy fully and then to try to work with you in a consensual manner. i discussed this with you last night at about 10 p.m., but your attitude is commendable, and i also listened to your speech: we have the majority, we are putting this report through and those who disagree with us are pragmatists who deny reality - as you so well expressed it! that is not the way to conduct a reasonable asylum policy in the european union! it must be based on a broad consensus and not on the kind of isolation and confrontation that you want. why do we have difficulties ? the council has said - and our group has some understanding of this - that we need to extend the system of counting asylum seekers to other target groups and you have made some very sound arguments which we also appreciate. as regards the protection of, for example, minors who are smuggled in and who would be forced into prostitution, it is possible to envisage the granting of a certain police and state protection in connection with such a fingerprinting system. our problem is about the rule of law. should we not make a distinction between those who claim a fundamental right as a victim of political persecution, namely protection against such persecution, and those who are for example brought in illegally or illegally brought in against their will? shouldn't we distinguish between these two categories of people? as we believe that we have not yet exhausted this discussion and as we still wanted to discuss it with mr schily, we have asked you to wait a fortnight. if you emphasize here that a year has passed, then, yes, it is not a fortnight, mr pirker! (applause from the left) i must therefore say that you are complicating the debate in this house with your method. this is not a risky venture! i predict - and i trust the liberality of the liberal group - that in the long run you will be shipwrecked with this strategy! you've been lucky for a while now, but in the long run, this method of exclusion will not lead to success. we are not against the principle of eurodac but we would have liked to have had more time to discuss it and you would not have given it to us. you'll be the one responsible for the impasse! (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, i have the impression that we should first vote on the passage 'free and fair world trade' and so on. is that correct ? did you include that?
- (de) madam president, for us greens this request is essential. if 'socially fair and balanced' is dropped, we will unfortunately have to vote against this report by a majority. the removal of these terms would be tantamount to blowing up an essential element of the whole negotiation and report. i wanted to clarify that.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, please do not get angry! this is a very important point. the logic of the vote is that mrs maes is absolutely right. i am surprised, mr chichester, that you specifically wanted to remove the 'socially balanced' clause. we voted in favour of it in committee by a very large majority. but, well, the only thing i could really see as a guarantee is that the voting procedure is very precise here. i therefore ask you to approve mrs maes' proposal.
the rapporteur. - (de) madam president, i think there are three adjectives. free and fair global trade is the basis of the wto negotiations - that was my original text. the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy then adopted an amendment to which the words 'social balanced' were added. opinions differ as to which adjectives should be added. i am of the opinion that we should have a 'free and fair world trade'. everyone agreed on that. whether it was "socially balanced" or "socially acceptable" was controversial. the original text should therefore be voted on as 'free and fair world trade' and then a separate vote on 'social balance'. we would then have the result for the third point. i must, however, point out that 'free and fair world trade' was the basis of all our work, that there has been one more addition and that this is what we should be voting on now.
- madam president, i'd like to repeat what i said. the epp has tabled an amendment. mr chichester made it clear orally that he wanted to retain the words 'free and balanced' in the original text in any case, contrary to the proposed amendment. he also said that this was what we should be voting on. the third question is: should we say 'socially balanced' or not? that's what we should be voting on. i took what mr. chichester said.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i asked to speak because i believe i can propose a solution which is really correct. it is a question of three words: fair, free and socially balanced. i think the two words "fair" and "free" are wanted by a clear majority. the only term contested is "socially tolerable". that is the very first thing mrs maes has said and it is therefore simpler to vote separately on each of these three terms. we shall then have the opinion of the majority of parliament on each of the three terms. the proposal itself is confusing.
- (de) madam president, we had already indicated this morning that, after what we have just voted, mr pirker's important report should be put to the vote this afternoon or tomorrow morning, in accordance with the normal procedure, although we proposed something else this morning. the same applies to the report by mrs giannakou-koutsikou. two exceptional things which cannot, however, be left to random majorities. i therefore propose that the vote on the pirker and giannakou-koutsikou reports and the debate be postponed to the december partsession in brussels and i ask you to put this to the vote. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, we must now be very specific. otherwise, the report will take on a totally different meaning. if i understand mr pirker correctly, he would like to reject the definition of 'third country nationals' and the old '18 years'. is that correct ? i ask him to explain that.
- (de) mr president, the result was clear after a whole series of violations of the law. the rules of procedure have been violated on several occasions by the services and by the majority of parliament. it is also a dark day for parliament because the decision taken by the majority of parliament has made parliament an authority and made members of parliament civil servants. i will not be turned into a civil servant by my own parliament. when i think that this text also states that members are obliged to assist olaf's missions and that they should also be obliged to report, such regulations touch the very heart of the independence of the mandate. i would just like to point out that we cannot of course accept such a decision which destroys parliamentarism and announce that we will take this matter to the european court of justice - i will not be the only one, there will be many of us.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the compromise proposal on the year 2000 bug. unfortunately, this resolution is not enough and does not take account of all the important aspects of this subject. i would therefore like to mention three points which are of the utmost importance. the japanese government has called on the population to form reserves. this shows that it is impossible to estimate the risk of the year 2000 bug, and this naturally also applies to europe. it is urgent to give instructions in this respect and to discuss what might happen. secondly, what about the eu's response to the desperate appeals for help made by 27 african states on 21 october last? they too need help from the industrialized nations to cope with the year 2000 bug. thirdly, it is interesting to ask where the problem is coming from. this is true not only for africa but also for other countries in the "two thirds" of the world. in all the diagnoses and debates on this subject, the developing countries play no role. the rich countries of the northern hemisphere have provided them with old computer equipment that is not compatible with the change of the millennium. the serious implications of this are that food supplies are not secure and that the internal stability of many countries is in danger. we are 43 days into the new millennium and we are still far from having a solution to this problem. this is also where the reverse of the global village medal in the field of information technology comes in. we give away the old computers and we get rid of the responsibility at the same time. i expect swift action, and not just on the year 2000 bug, because the next problem is already arising. many computers have not registered the date of february 29, 2000. everyone is talking about the year 2000 bug, but this problem is not detected at all, which could have even more serious consequences, since no one is prepared. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who at the beginning of this year could no longer stand by and watch the killings, expulsions, looting and ransoms of the serbian army and militia in kosovo and who therefore spoke in favour of a 'humanitarian' intervention must now ask themselves whether the war - unfortunately not against those who perpetrated these crimes but against the yugoslav population - the war we have waged for more than two and a half months and which has cost billions of euros, has really produced the result we had hoped for. has the killing, the expulsion, the looting and the extortion stopped in kosovo? i'm afraid not the crimes continue, unfortunately, with two differences. firstly, the victims of these crimes are no longer ethnic albanian kosovars but serbs, roma and even bosniaks. secondly, it is no longer the serbian army that is in kosovo, but our armies, which are on the one hand carrying out a fantastic mission of reconstruction, protection of the people, maintenance of order, in every respect, and on the other hand are desperate because they are not able to protect effectively the populations that they should and would have wanted to protect. who is to blame ? unfortunately, those for whom the international community waged war, the first war for humanitarian reasons. the former uk - i say 'ex' because it no longer officially exists, because it has been officially disarmed - believes that it has won a war and therefore has the right to commit exactly the same crimes as those which led to that war. and that's a shame! so far, the international community has been a spectator. we would assure the un mandate holder, mr kouchner, and his former colleague of our full support if he would finally start to set up an administration in kosovo instead of leaving this task to the hypocritical and illegitimate uk government, if the local authorities and councils were not appointed by the uk and if - in the absence of other kosovars - other un officials were actually carrying out these tasks and the many tasks that remain to be done in kosovo.
- (de) mr president, mr sakellariou, i can directly endorse what you have just said. i was there in october. i can confirm that the military power has not been able to solve the problems on the ground. but the old adage is true: violence breeds violence. the international community has no solution to the kosovo conflict, which is still an ongoing issue. that conflict is still there. at the international level, it is true that kosovo is part of what is left of yugoslavia and that we are creating a multiethnic community. but the reality in kosovo is totally different. anyone who is there and works there knows it, even the eu authorities. mr sakellariou, the former kla, i can emphasize, considers himself the victor and feels that he has been helped by international aid, mainly economic aid. all the parties claim that serbs, roma and albanians live together in theory, but in practice the situation in pristina is different. there are no cyrillic characters left. they were all destroyed because this slavic language can no longer be spoken there. for all serbs living in pristina, this means that they can hardly participate in public life. this is pristina, a city full of international organizations! in mitrovica, it's even worse than that. the city is completely divided, separated day after day. all multiethnic projects, including those of the eu, have failed precisely at this level. what's the reason? this is simply because we are focusing only on economic aid and forgetting the decisive things, namely the exercise of tolerance, the exercise of democracy and aid in the social field. there is no funding available for this on the ground. mr kushner knows that the reconstruction of kosovo will fail precisely because of the problem of protecting minorities. it receives no eu support in this respect.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in kosovo is characterized by uncertainty and violence, sometimes even murder, and this ultimately discredits us all, including ourselves, as we have already heard. in many cases where i have tried to help since 1989, i have felt personally rejected. why did we intervene as an international community? we decided to help the albanians because of the violation of human and fundamental rights. that is why we took this action and i still think it was the right thing to do. during the eight years of apartheid imposed in kosovo, the albanians did nothing to anyone: neither to the serbs nor to the roma nor to the croats nor to the bosniaks. but they suffered terribly and we cannot forget that. new mass graves are being discovered every day. so i'm already of the opinion that cohabitation is going to be very difficult. wounds heal terribly slowly. we also know this in central and northern europe. that is why i think we should demand something of what they can bring, namely coexistence on the spot. we must help to do this. the acts must always be denounced, even when they are committed by albanian leaders. we must do our part, to the extent possible, to find the perpetrators and bring them to justice. we wanted to avoid injustice and some of those we helped are now punishing us by lying and expelling minorities in turn. the roma, serbs, croats and bosnians, all those who may not speak the language, are targeted. i don't want the oppressed to become oppressors themselves. we must therefore ensure that aid for reconstruction is also suspended in the municipalities where persecution is taking place, so that every citizen of this country takes responsibility and ensures that such acts are not committed again. kfor cannot be everywhere; she can 't stay behind everyone . i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in albania, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the whole of the country. the problem is also that the albanian leaders, or those who consider themselves to be leaders, are not in a position to build the future of their country together, and we must therefore appeal to them. i think we need an interim government and i think we need it faster than mr kouchner can do it. secondly, we need real local leaders; and if it cannot be albanians or serbs, where they are a minority, it must be a representative of the international community, so that we can have a partner. in the municipalities where this is happening well, we have to react positively and say that we are helping them more than those who are not doing anything. ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult mission. unmik should be in charge of this. the problem is precisely that this is a problem which is easier to solve on paper than in reality. i do not think we can do all this by establishing democracy. we must achieve this, but the first necessity is to create jobs, to create infrastructure and to ensure that the young people who are still walking around with their kalashnikovs finally take up tools and do something for their homeland. we would then be on the right track and mr kouchner should be able to act in this respect somewhat more effectively than he is able to do at present, whatever the obstacles. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, unfortunately, the debate today has so far been very partial, because we have forgotten to make our own criticism. we have ignored for years the oppression in kosovo for the last 10 years. doris pack and others did not, but a clear majority did. we ourselves are guilty, at least those who took the attitude to overthrow rugova, because we left him alone with his non-violent policy for 10 years. it is quite clear that rugova has lost control of the forces in a hopeless situation, in which hundreds of thousands of people have been expelled by systematic state violence - and this is where the great difference lies with the isolated, but certainly reprehensible, acts of revenge that are being perpetrated at present. we should finally understand that it is good to condemn other people, but it would also be wise to make our self-criticism clear: we have especially failed at this level. we must of course send a strong signal against all evictions. i myself come from a family - collectively innocent - that was evicted 50 years ago by state decrees. any expulsion is too much expulsion and this twentieth century threatens to go down in history as the century of genocide and expulsions. it is therefore our duty to prevent any expulsion, including in kosovo, and it is our duty to ensure that the prohibition of expulsions and the right to a homeland become the foundations of the international legal order, so that such horrors do not happen again.
- i note that all the delegations in this house are clearly in agreement on this subject, which is a good thing. and it's certainly useful, too.
- (de) mr president, alexander nikitin is due to stand trial again on 23 november. he still has to answer for an old "act of espionage" in court. and yet, it has long been established that he obtained the information in the bellona report from publicly available sources. but his experience has warned us of a great danger that threatens us and that lies dormant in the north sea. he acted in a profoundly human way. the eu has a special responsibility in this respect, because it still uses the material gathered by alexander nikitin. the northern dimension decided on in helsinki essentially includes the question of the cleanup of the north sea and the conjuring up of the danger that can reach us all. we must therefore take a much more firm stance to ensure that alexander nikitin is finally released and that the charges against him are dropped, because we all know that this procedure is purely political and because the laws of russia are also violated by this procedure, since it is the old nomenclature that wins in this case once again. i think this is a profoundly human act and alexander nikitin has shown a truly remarkable responsibility in providing us with this material. it is therefore essential that the eu mission in moscow at least observes this case, but that there is also political intervention in the dialogue, that this matter is brought to the political level and that alexander nikitin is finally released. alexander nikitin deserves to be free and honored!
- (de) mr president, the european convention on human rights, which also binds russia as a member of the council of europe, is, so to speak, based here in strasbourg. the european court of human rights, to which alexander nikitin appealed, is located on the other side of the river. what is happening in russia is therefore not the internal affair of some distant country but the internal affair of a european institution whose core is the 15 member states of the eu. we are therefore particularly obliged to intervene in favour of mr nikitin and his release and so that he can finally live in conditions which are in accordance with human dignity and the law. the partnership and cooperation agreement, which not only binds russia but also binds us as the eu, and which includes a clause on respect for human rights, obliges us to take massive action in support of mr nikitin, in support of an immediate improvement in his detention conditions, in support of his release and, as has already been said, in support of fair and lawful treatment. it would be a shame if we capitulated here, because mr nikitin has also acted in our own interests, as mrs schroedter has very impressively told us. we have often discussed this in parliament. it is committed to the european environment. he has committed himself to the legality of the whole continent. in fact, we should give mr nikitin one of our prizes here in the european parliament. for these reasons, i would therefore like to support this motion for a resolution and the appeal it contains with all my heart.
commission. - i shall reply quickly to the three points that have been raised: the death penalty, minorities in kosovo and the nikitin case. first of all, as regards the question of the death penalty, i should like to say a few words about the substance of the matter, which you address in your draft resolution and which, of course, is agreed by the commission as regards the position on the death penalty. i think that this does not deserve a long commentary, and we agree on that. i would like to address a specific point that was raised during the discussion, namely the draft resolution on the death penalty which the union had tabled before the third committee of the united nations general assembly. this is indeed a matter of foreign policy. in this resolution, the european union proposed that the international community commit itself to a moratorium on capital punishment. for us, the abolition of the death penalty is an intrinsic part of our human rights policy, whereas for many countries this issue - or at least this is their thesis - is exclusively a matter for criminal cases. we have indeed withdrawn this draft resolution after careful consideration, and this decision is subject to your assessment. we withdrew this draft because we felt that the discussions in this third committee of the un general assembly were taking a wrong turn. we have considered that some of the many amendments tabled by countries which have a problem with our position are unacceptable to us, in particular the amendment to insert in this resolution a reference to article 2 (7) of the charter of the united nations, which states that 'no provision of this charter shall authorize the united nations to intervene in matters which fall essentially within the national competence of a state'. this amendment was indeed inconvenient in that it moved the debate to another area, that of the national jurisdiction of a state. in our view, the introduction in the resolution of a specific reference to the principle of the sovereignty of states would have entailed a risk of calling into question the acquis within the united nations system, and in particular the 1993 world conference, which provided that 'the promotion and protection of all human rights is a legitimate concern of the international community'. furthermore, accepting such an amendment could have had a very negative impact on the work of the united nations in the field of human rights. so it is not, as i have heard, to give in to i don't know what pressures that we have preferred to close the debate in this way, at least for the time being, but to preserve a position of principle. this decision should therefore not be seen as the absence of a foreign policy, nor as a sign that we have succumbed to this or that pressure, but as an assessment by the union of the risk that, in the light of the proposed amendments, we would find ourselves, in the name of this legitimate fight that we share, somewhere below the level of those we had previously won. so that's the explanation i wanted to give. i now come to the second point, mr president, which concerns the rights of serbs and other minorities in kosovo. i believe that the commission and, with it, the whole of the european union have made it clear from the outset that we condemn all ethnic violence, whoever is the perpetrator and whoever is the victim. this violence is as unacceptable today against the serb and gypsy minorities as it was when it was perpetrated against the kosovars a few months earlier. through its assistance programmes for democratisation and human rights, the commission continues to support measures to restore trust and foster dialogue between different communities. we have already been doing this, unfortunately without much success, since before the conflict - and i agree with the indications given by many of you that we must all make a fairly serious examination of conscience in this matter. now, in new circumstances, we are trying to continue to act in a pragmatic way in accordance with these objectives, especially when selecting aid and assistance projects. we fully support the efforts of kfor to maintain law and order in kosovo and to protect all citizens. we also fully support the efforts of unmik to establish an operational civilian administration capable of carrying out the police functions currently carried out by kfor and to create a peaceful multi-ethnic society capable of taking on the reconstruction of kosovo and the re-establishment of its society. unmik has approached the commission for funding for the kosovo protection corps and the member states will take a decision in the coming weeks on the programme we have suggested in response to this request. we also support, in the form of partnerships, the efforts of unmik at the level of local administrations. in this context, we call on all people of goodwill in kosovo and beyond to also contribute to these objectives and help us ensure that minuk and kfor achieve them themselves. i would remind you that we are opposed to the partitioning of kosovo. it must become a multiethnic society, without distinctions or discrimination on ethnic or other grounds.
- thank you very much, commissioner lamy. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0267/99 by mr ries and mr van den bos, on behalf of the eldr group; - b5-0276/99 by mr miranda and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - b5-0285/99 by mr van den berg, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0293/99 by mr maes and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0294/99 by mr maes and others, on behalf of the green group; - b5-0300/99 by mr van hecke and mr khanbhai, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the democratic republic of congo; - b5-0301/99 by mr van hecke and mr khanbhai, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation in the great lakes region, in particular rwanda, and the situation in burundi.
- (de) mr president, among the many problems in rwanda and burundi, i would like to speak on behalf of my group about the most recent one, namely what happened on 6 november last, that is to say a few days ago, when the rwandan government suspended its cooperation with the international tribunal in arusha. we were proud that this court had been set up and that it had been able, with our help - although it is worth asking whether it was sufficient - to solve these inhuman crimes and to punish the perpetrators. the first reaction of the rwandan government is understandable, but the conclusion it drew, that it was going to suspend its cooperation with the tribunal, was totally wrong. we cannot understand why this alleged architect of the genocide - i am speaking cautiously - barayagwiza, should be released and not be brought to justice at all because of procedural issues - we must savor that word. after all, he was the political director of the foreign ministry of a regime responsible for the deaths of 800,000 people, i would even say the massacre of 800,000 people. before that, this now released person was a high official in the state radio, at the very time when the radio was calling for and promoting racial hatred. our group has two demands: firstly, that the rwandan government reconsider its decision and, secondly, that the court reconsider its decision. this court cannot invoke the fact that another indictment in the same case is inadmissible because of the acquittal. there can be no immunity from prosecution in this area.
commission. - mr president, i shall take the remarks on which i owe you an answer, first on rwanda and then on burundi. as regards rwanda, the commission shares the concerns that have been expressed about the effectiveness of the judiciary, and i use this diplomatic word to judge the perpetrators of the genocide. no national reconciliation is possible without a real judicial process, and this concerns both the rwandan national judiciary and the international criminal tribunal for rwanda. in reply to mrs ries, as regards the rwandan national judiciary, the commission has focused its interventions on institutional support to ministries in strengthening the right of defence and civil parties, in improving living conditions in prisons and in supporting genocide survivors, as well as in respecting human rights. however, 130,000 detainees are still in prison, accused of genocide-related crimes, awaiting trial. the rwandan government is looking for alternative solutions, which leave no room for impunity and which are in line with our wishes. he is working on the definition of a system of arbitration courts in line with traditional practice, where the courts are made up of citizens elected at different levels of local administration, and they would be to judge three categories of accused: ordinary murderers, on the one hand, beatings and injuries without causing death, on the other, and looters, finally, so that the instigators and ideologues of genocide and massacres are actually tried by ordinary courts, which is somehow to organize in order to face this task. the commission is currently assessing with the other donors whether and how to contribute to the establishment of this system in the context of our cooperation. the commission has provided funding for the international tribunal for rwanda since its inception, to date amounting to eur 1.5 million. the commission will launch an evaluation of human rights programmes in developing countries. particular attention will be paid to countries or projects which we have supported, such as the one just mentioned. this evaluation will include support for the international criminal court and its conclusions should allow us to identify possible new support, in terms that we will assess in the light of this investigation. as far as burundi is concerned, we too are extremely concerned about the increasing violence in that country. what are we doing to respond to that? i know and i appreciate that it is always ridiculous to give aid figures in the face of so many misfortunes. i believe, however, that these are the only real clues we can give you of what we are doing in the direction of the concerns that are yours. the real criticism you can make of us, the one that hurts, is that we are passive in this kind of situation. i think in this case we are not. i would like to give you a few examples. we have supported the peace process by financing the talks in arusha with a contribution of two million euros, which is by far the largest and which, together with other external funding, should be enough to make the talks a success. it is true that the death of the facilitator, former president nyerere, is a difficulty that adds to the complexity of the process itself. we believe it is essential that the talks continue in parallel with the search for a new facilitator. the intensification of the fighting in recent months has led to the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people who, as was mentioned in the debate, have been forcibly settled in camps by the government since last july. we have responded immediately to humanitarian aid, with more than €1 million in three operations, and we are ready to continue to respond to the most urgent needs next year. the total contribution of echo to burundi this year has reached some 10 million euros. at a meeting in new york earlier this year, burundian donors decided to help build the living conditions of the most vulnerable populations and to focus their support on resettling displaced populations. as part of these positions, the commission approved a rehabilitation programme of almost eur 50 million, which can be implemented depending on the security conditions in the country. we believe that the full resumption of cooperation is linked to results in the peace process and the establishment of a political and constitutional framework which will finally lead to democratization. that is what i wanted to say in reply, mr president.
- thank you very much, commissioner lamy. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0269/99 by mr van den bos and mr thors, on behalf of the eldr group; - doc. b5-0277/99 by mr vinci and mr brie, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; - doc. b5-0278/99 by mr thomas mann, on behalf of the ppe/de group; - doc. b5-0286/99 by mr schori, on behalf of the pse group; - b5-0296/99 by mr lambert and mr lucas, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the declaration of a state of emergency in pakistan.
(de) mr president, the epp/ed group strongly condemns the military coup in pakistan in october, just after the retirement of the army chief, musharraf. the constitution has been abrogated. the federal and provincial parliaments have been temporarily suspended. although the military takeover has been carried out without much protest from the population, there is no alternative to a functioning democracy established through free elections. the attempt to prove that former prime minister sharif participated in a criminal plot and that he set up a system of nepotism cannot become a mock trial. any judicial procedure must be conducted in a fair and transparent manner for the public. during the meeting with the eu special envoy, walter sari, on 2 november, mr musharraf refused to announce a timetable for the establishment of democracy. there is therefore no justification for why the eu should be prepared to follow other states which give the announced stability programme a great chance. the beginnings are promising: a favourable investment climate, tax relief, cutting red tape, and an end to the personal enrichment of those in charge. state-owned banks must also abandon their habit of extending generous loans to public officials. the new, stricter anti-corruption law is a step in the right direction. but the only way to stop the loss of confidence and capital flight is to restore democracy and guarantee human rights. foreign investment must remain suspended until the imf accepts pakistan as a full partner. we therefore call on the military government to restore constitutionality. it is a legitimate democratic civil government that must take charge of politics. the suspension of both commonwealth membership and the european union cooperation agreement can only be lifted once all the preconditions for the necessary economic, social and human reforms in pakistan have been established.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues have already mentioned the military coup. i would like to reiterate what my colleagues mr duff and mr mann have said. for decades, elected but corrupt governments, most recently nawaz sharif's, have allowed human rights violations, forced labour, social disaster and uncontrollable external debt to mark pakistan's daily life and ruin the country. these same governments have supported the murderous fundamentalist taliban regime in afghanistan and pose an incalculable risk to peace in the region by supporting and fomenting terrorist activities in the border region of kashmir against their indian neighbours. despite all this, the incompetence and corruption of an elected government cannot make us consider military coup as a possible alternative. we strongly and unequivocally condemn the military coup in pakistan and demand that the leadership immediately restore the rule of law and constitutional order and parliamentary legitimacy, according to a detailed timetable, by setting up a civilian transitional government and holding elections. this is exactly what the preconditions must be before the council signs the suspended cooperation agreement with pakistan. in general, the eu must adopt a clear stance towards pakistan, emphasising that democratic principles are non-negotiable and non-compromising, and dissuading any future aspiring leader from embarking on such a miserable undertaking. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - mr president, as you know, the situation with regard to pakistan was discussed at the general affairs council on 15 november. the union, i think it is clear to everyone, is very concerned about this coup and is very much in favour of a speedy return to democracy. the council expects the assurances given by the interim administration, as they are called, regarding respect for human rights and civil liberties to be respected unconditionally, and that any charges against the deposed prime minister, mr nawaz sharif, be prosecuted in accordance with the law before a civil and open court. as regards the specific points you have raised in the resolutions on the commission's development aid programmes and projects in pakistan, it should be stressed that these concern almost exclusively the poorest and most disadvantaged sections of the population. many of these projects are implemented through ngos and aim to improve the scope and quality of social sector services, particularly in the areas of primary education and health care. the total commitments for community projects currently stand at some eur 180 million and the commission proposes to continue the implementation of these projects. we believe that the suspension of aid to disadvantaged groups would be an unwarranted punishment for them. we are fully aware of the deplorable situation of many children, and particularly girls, in pakistan, but we believe that the most effective way to improve this situation is to help ensure universal primary education of good quality and affordable. we are also involved in a project with the international labour organization on the rehabilitation of children employed in hazardous work in pakistan. work on new projects to be financed under next year's budget is currently suspended pending the evaluation of the new situation there. we recognise the need to help ngos and civil society associations in order to strengthen the country's democratic institutions, and as you may know, the absorption capacity and size of many ngos in this field in pakistan are unfortunately limited. we have therefore contacted a number of ngos and associations, but we feel that care must be taken not to overburden these organisations with funds and assistance which they would then be unable to manage effectively. in reply to mr duff's question, the union cancelled the signing of the new cooperation agreement between the community and pakistan after the coup, and we suspended our political dialogue in order to send a loud and clear message to the new masters of pakistan about our concerns about the coup and its aftermath. i believe that's exactly how i answered your question, mr. duff.
- thank you very much, commissioner lamy. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.20 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) )
- (de) i would just like to say that i was naturally in favour of this resolution in principle, but i think that something very dangerous has begun here, namely the systematic misuse of resolutions for an ideological debate on the charter of fundamental rights. we should really take this charter of fundamental rights seriously, preparing it here in this house, by consensus, by a clear majority, giving it almost the value of a constitution, and not superficially in resolutions. i believe that this charter of fundamental rights must be debated conscientiously and that it cannot separate the rights of children from the rights of parents, the rights of the family and the right of parents to education in the family. these are basic points that should be discussed in depth and not hastily and superficially.
- (de) mr president, this resolution on chechnya is the most comprehensive resolution that has ever been adopted at international level and it is a great honour for this house, because we also played a decisive role in the conclusion of peace during the first war. i am, however, disappointed that this house does not approve our motion for a resolution, which states that the partnership and cooperation agreement should be frozen because of its human rights clause. i have the impression that much more stringent measures are needed than those provided for in the resolutions so far, just to achieve a ceasefire and to stop the bombing of the civilian population and to continue to claim that this is an internal problem. i think it is essential that today's osce meeting - which is currently debating the same subject in istanbul - really creates an opportunity for peace negotiations. the caucasus problem cannot be solved in the way the russians want it to be solved, and i therefore think it is particularly important that we do not stop there and above all that the commission repeats this call and also threatens to resort to measures such as the freezing of new tacis contracts. it is also important that this actually happens in the administrative offices there, and that it does not just remain on paper here. this is a particularly important request which i would like to make clear again on behalf of my group. we do not think that the resolution goes far enough, but it is a first step towards a peaceful solution which we hope to bring about in this region.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we would have liked the debate and vote on this report not to have taken place today, because - i want to say this at the outset - because of the circumstances which have led us to change the agenda and because the voting time has been so long following the napolitano, leinen, dimitrakopoulos and schwaiger reports, we will vote on mrs giannakou-koutsikou's report early tomorrow morning. friday morning is the busiest day in strasbourg. tomorrow the chamber will be packed to the brim with our colleagues who will be rushing to vote on mrs giannakou-koutsikou's report. anyway, if there are fifty, that's a lot. i would like to point this out because it is in flagrant contradiction to the very special importance which is claimed to be attached to this report and to the fact that it was insisted on the urgent need to debate and decide on it this week. i don't see the slightest logic behind all this. the report by our colleague is indeed important and deserves careful consideration, not least because the debate on it has shown once again that the community's drug policy is one of the most controversial subjects before us. first, a comment to the rapporteur. i think mrs giannakou has tried to give her opinion on the action plan in a consensual form, which aims to integrate the different points of view on the issue - points of view which cross political families but which are also marked by national traditions - the most diverse aspects of the issue and the partially contradictory interests. i also thank him on behalf of my group. i also say this on behalf of my colleague jan andersson, who is absent today and who, as a swedish member of parliament (i will come back to this), is in a particularly difficult situation, given that sweden is one of the member states which in this matter has a very particular approach, based on national experience and tradition. however, i share your view, mr president, that mr andersson has ensured, particularly in the context of the compromise amendments, that this report is presented in such a way that it can be widely accepted. one hundred and twenty-eight amendments were tabled before you tabled 17 or 18 compromise amendments which should help to bring together this plethora of amendments so that a logical and conclusive parliamentary report on this action plan can emerge. to arrive at a logical conclusion, three basic factors must be considered. firstly, whether we are conservatives or leftists, we must see very clearly - and i think we do - that the approach to drug policy must always be based on the principle that people who are addicted to drugs should not be punished and prosecuted but should be well helped, supported. it's actually pretty obvious. why do i have to repeat it from this podium ? because the way in which we help the individual concerned to reintegrate into society, the way in which we reduce his suffering, must always be able to draw on specific regional, local and national experiences. that is why there can be no regulated european policy in this area but rather a european framework within which local and regional authorities can help the people concerned, who must be at the centre of our policy, based on specific experiences. secondly, as far as drug policy is concerned, we must bear in mind that there is hardly any other branch of crime in europe that is as lucrative as drug trafficking. this means that when we talk about supply reduction, it is a very important element, but it implies that we must pursue those who offer these products on the market without any mercy. to this end, there is a need for criminal and police matters. but we also need another element which i think has been too little taken into account in this debate: as a general rule, those who deal in drugs, when it comes to large quantities, do so for profit, to enrich themselves. wherever we succeed in preventing drug trafficking capital from being turned into legal capital, we have made great progress. this means that the fight against drug trafficking and money laundering are linked phenomena. i would say to the commissioner responsible for internal security that the policy of combating drugs therefore implies that, as part of the reduction of supply, dealers must be prosecuted in a consistent manner, particularly in the area of money laundering. the third and final point i would like to conclude with is that we have different experiences. in some countries of the european union, the approach is rather permissive; in others, it is rather restrictive. if we look at the results of the european monitoring centre for drugs in lisbon, we find that drug addiction rates are similarly high almost everywhere. this means that whatever approach is currently being used, the success or failure is the same. this is in favour of the implementation of a european framework but of subsidiary implementation taking into account the respective national experiences.
- (de) mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, this programme is primarily aimed at people who are addicted to drugs and their relatives. help is urgently needed in this area. that is why i want an honest analysis of the results of the programme and the consequences that follow. the first objective of the drug control programme is to reduce supply and demand. neither of these objectives has been achieved. regardless of age group, country and drug, use is increasing or stagnating, despite harsher penalties and more significant prosecutions at national level but also, and increasingly, at european level. the same applies to the reduction in the supply of drugs. for a long time, only 10% of drug trafficking was seized by the police. these sad results were ignored. instead, the program presented to us is a duplicate of the previous one with some cosmetic adjustments. it is good that the commission is carrying out an evaluation. but for a sensitive subject like this, an external evaluation is clearly more advantageous. but there are also consequences. despite the failure of the programme, a large part of the financial resources of the drug programme are being directed to the fight against drugs. as far as damage reduction is concerned, only the right portion remains. the question remains, however, why this programme is clearly not aimed at achieving the objectives it has 'set itself'. a thesis emerges: the reason for the existence of this programme is simply to exist and it aims at goals quite different from the declared objectives. what do you mean, "i'm not a doctor"? let us use this programme to increase the legitimacy of the eu. in this respect, drug control programmes are purely instrumental. and since this is happening at the expense of the addicted, we need to rethink the problem quickly. there is no royal road in drug policy, we all agree. but you have to learn the consequences. the priority objective must be harm reduction and must also be firmly anchored in the programme. in conclusion, i shall show in four requirements what this must mean in practice. first, to expand the limited offerings. secondly, to set up 'methadone' programmes and to introduce controlled distribution of heroin in the eu, which is a method that has been widely proven to work. thirdly, drug users must be able to control the components and composition of drugs. only then could further damage be prevented; we need an eu-wide drug checking system. fourthly, to promote inter-city cooperation, based on the idea of the european cities drug policy, which would serve as a model for a project which would recognise that drugs, whether legal or not, are part of society and would advocate a free and responsible relationship with these drugs. we urgently need such a drug action plan.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0050/99) by mr newton dunn, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the initiative of the federal republic of germany with a view to adopting a council decision on improving the exchange of information in the fight against the counterfeiting of travel documents (8457/1999 - c5-0011/1999 - 1999/0804 (cns)).
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to welcome the initiative of the federal republic of germany to improve the exchange of information on falsified documents. this exchange is of enormous importance for the protection and security of citizens in europe. europe needs a legal area in which citizens feel at home and safe. the crossborder protection arrangements and systems which make life difficult for criminals are an essential contribution to this. the german initiative aims at the establishment of such a system. the exchange of information on falsified documents helps to stem the counterfeiting itself. it is therefore an essential contribution to the fight against smugglers and other forms of crime; i would even say - and i attach great importance to this - all other crimes. it is therefore reasonable that this initiative should take the form of a draft council decision. the rapporteur wants to amend recital 3 and limit the offences envisaged to illegal immigration. he's acting as if illegal immigration is the most serious crime we have to fight. where do you live, my dear colleague? haven't you ever heard of drug dealers and money laundering couriers, walking around with a suitcase full of bank notes? do i really need to give you a catalogue of street crime? amendment no 6 is revolting. it mocks the citizens who expect protection and security from the european union. we must reject this amendment by a large majority. we cannot afford to be so intellectually deranged that we are afraid of a few poor devils who are getting their way with false papers while allowing big criminals to travel freely. the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, which has dealt with this matter, has also expressed its opinion unanimously - i repeat, unanimously by all the groups - and after careful consideration of this opinion, and as i said before, i want this measure to be applicable to all offences. that is why my group will reject all the amendments in the vote tomorrow morning.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr tannock's explanations should show mr newton dunn why my colleague mr gebhardt rejects his amendments. the german government has taken an initiative to limit and even control the falsification of travel documents - which is in fact closely linked to freedom of movement in the european union. now, on the pretext that parliament would not have as much influence under the third pillar as it does under the legal basis he put forward, mr newton dunn has opted for the approach of amending the legal basis, but limiting the group to those concerned by the first pillar of the european union's security policy. this is what led our colleague, mr tannock, to make a fiery speech on illegal immigration. of course, this is remarkably consistent with the british tory reputation, namely, an anti-european reputation. this, however, has only a marginal link with the federal republic of germany's initiative to strengthen european security structures. but it gives the excuse to politicians who, at the moment, turn any debate about security in europe into a debate about illegal immigration. i now say to my colleague in london that when i hear your speech i must reply to you with the following question. is europe a continent of immigration or not? if we say that europe is indeed, as you yourself have described it very vividly, a continent of immigration, does that not mean that we must finally create legal structures for immigration? you 'll be the first to say no; i'm pretty sure of that. we are not an immigration continent, we do not need legal regulations in this area. but what does all this debate show? the european parliament may feel that newton dunn has taken a sensible approach to increasing our influence, and we have just seen the political repercussions of this. as mrs gebhardt has just said, the third pillar certainly includes more groups, namely all criminals who falsify travel documents. however, the involvement of parliament is then weaker than in the case of the legal basis proposed by mr newton dunn. in the end, it is clear that neither the third pillar nor the marginal transfer of competence to another pillar is sufficient to create effective security structures in europe. commissioner, you should join us in making this clear to the council. you did it in tampere, you did it before, you will do it in the future. the current debate shows that no approach is successful because intergovernmental cooperation is not sufficient to implement the necessary measures - which result from the structure of the internal market and the speed of integration associated with it - to create new legislation on european security structures and that what is provided for in the amsterdam treaty is not working. we must learn the consequences; otherwise, it doesn't really work. for while we are quarrelling over legal grounds, while we are having heated debates on illegal immigration - which is very good for a tory congress but is of no effect for europe - we are totally neglecting what we absolutely must do, namely to develop effective legislation to limit the counterfeiting of documents, whether, of course, by those who enter europe illegally or by those who, as mrs gebhardt very correctly described, travel across europe with a suitcase full of heroin and forged documents. mr newton dunn, since we believe that between your proposal which is entirely worth considering and the intention of the german presidency of the council at the time, we must opt for the broadest field, we will reject your amendments. not just the one that touches the legal base but also, therefore, all the others. this does not change the fact that you have done a thorough job. i think you do. but politically, this case pits us against each other.
commission. - (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission would like to congratulate mr newton dunn and the committee on civil rights on their work. i think parliament is aware that the commission has long held the view in this area that the fight against fraud, counterfeiting and the infringement of travel documents is a major contribution to improving controls at the crossing of external borders and, in this sense, an important instrument in the fight against illegal or irregular immigration and human trafficking networks. at the same time, the matter in question also falls within the field of police cooperation and the fight against crime in general. the choice of legal basis is therefore an open choice. but i would draw the attention of the house to the fact that in this area the tampere european council conclusions have adopted a certain vision of things by calling for continued efforts to implement an active common policy on visas and the fight against counterfeiting of documents in order to ensure better management of migration flows. in this context, i am not hiding from the house that the commission would prefer a legal basis based on the first pillar. either under article 62 (2) or under article 66 of the ec treaty. but naturally the preference for a legal basis based on the first pillar does not exclude the possibility of using this instrument to combat crossborder crime, in particular to support police cooperation between member states. in any case, the commission would like to say that it shares the rapporteur's view that, in the long run, the instrument we are talking about today will have to be integrated into a wider system which makes possible the exchange of documents in general. i would therefore remind you that the commission, when it adopted the fabo system (archiving and exchange of images), had already announced that it would take the necessary measures to ensure its management. for reasons of consistency and even of saving money, the commission intends to make proposals in this direction in the near future, i.e. proposals to integrate the exchange of false or falsified documents, the subject of this proposal, into a wider system of technical cooperation which will put into practice the exchange of information on all forms of document fraud. this more advanced system of technical cooperation would thus make a decisive contribution to the security of citizens and the fight against organised crime, to improving control of external borders with regard to the flow of persons and to cross-border criminal activity. it would therefore enhance trust in travel documents throughout the union. in this way we would create the conditions necessary to safeguard the security of the citizens of the union, to control illegal migration flows and also to combat crossborder crime.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0051/99) by mrs rühle, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision granting a community guarantee to the european investment bank against losses under loans for projects outside the community (central and eastern european countries and the western part of the balkans, mediterranean countries, latin american and asian countries, republic of south africa) (com (99) 142 - c5-0039/1999 - 1999/0080 (cns)).
the rapporteur. - (de) i thank all those who have waited so long because today's sitting was relatively busy and for a long time we did not know when the report would be submitted to the plenary. i would like to see us reaching a decision today and tomorrow on the terms of the community guarantee to the european investment bank, the eib, because we would like, if possible, to take a decision before the council and also to proceed with certain amendments which i will come back to in detail. these guarantees concern the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean countries, the countries of latin america and asia and the republic of south africa. my proposal is for a period up to 2003 - to be precise, 31 january 2003 - followed by a mid-term review and further discussion and possibly an extension until 31 january 2007. the proposal concerns an amount of eur 9 745 million and a guarantee of up to 60%. these points are not controversial; the controversy is about other things. the main problem with my report was that in the course of the work it became increasingly clear that the european investment bank was somewhat behind in terms of modern management, transparency and public relations work. some people have told me that the european investment bank is 20 points behind the world bank in terms of business management. i therefore think it is important that we look at this issue more closely. the european investment bank is the largest public bank in europe. its main owners are the member states and it primarily deals with soft loans. the bank enjoys high confidence on the capital markets due to the low interest rate expectations of the capital holders, which allows for a reduced gearing rate. the gearing rate, the ratio of borrowed capital to equity, is 2.5, whereas it is usually 10 on the market. this high level of confidence enables the eib to obtain loans on the most favourable terms on the capital markets and to subsequently grant loans at equally favourable rates. in addition, the bank enjoys tax exemption and, as a significant advantage, cash from the eu budget to cover political risks. despite this direct and indirect support from the european union to the bank, the bank likes to present itself as a completely normal bank to public opinion and has thus previously justified to public opinion its relative inaccessibility to collaboration and control in relation to other public institutions such as the world bank. we believe that this must change very quickly. that is why my report also deals with, and above all, the issues of accountability and transparency and, as i have already said, a modern business culture. in recent years, criticism has mounted against the eib's internal administration and business management. however, the bank has long refused to allow the court of auditors or olaf to examine its books on the basis of the bank's specific character. the eib's particular intransigence on public oversight and transparency issues even led the ecofin council to conclude on 8 october 1998 that, in view of the important financial role assigned to the eib by the treaty and a number of community regulations, the eib should take an exemplary stance in the fight against fraud and allow olaf to carry out investigations within it, where appropriate. the council is confident that the bank's governing bodies will shortly submit to their board of governors a draft decision in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. the first signs that the bank is ready to open its books are now being noted. in my view, however, they are still insufficient and mistrust persists. this is further reinforced by the way in which mr blak, the rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, has been treated so far, and whose questions have long been awaiting an answer. in this connection, i would like to thank the committee on budgetary control once again, and in particular mr blak and mrs theato, for the preparatory work which enabled me to complete this report in a short time. in future too, we will have to keep a critical eye on the eib's progress towards greater transparency, and i would point out to all those who are sceptical that profitability is also at stake. a closed, compartmentalized company makes its decisions on the basis of only a limited amount of information. the dialogue with civil society, as now practised by the world bank, among others, also provides insights into investment decisions. the bank has also been criticised on this point in the past, whether for its investments in the health sector in my country, which have mainly helped to anchor obsolete structures, or in the transport and environment sector in eastern europe. in future, it cannot and must not be enough for the bank to limit itself to the isolated examination of specific projects - for example, a section of a motorway - but it must also examine projects in a context - for example, within a national transport development plan - in order to identify possible duplication and develop an acceptable and more financially sustainable alternative. to this end, the bank must conduct aggressive public relations work in the regions receiving its assistance. the european parliament should therefore be attentive to the development of the eib in the coming years. the basis is laid in my report and i hope that it will be adopted tomorrow. thank you. i have a little bit overrun my speaking time, but i wanted to make clear the purpose of this report because for most people it is just specialist jargon.
- i see, mrs. rühle, that it is difficult to stop you. you're 25 percent over your speaking time. it's still a giant one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, at the ecofin council on 8 november a political agreement was reached on the commission's proposal of 23 april. it is true that two member states still have some reservations. the council's decision to grant the community a derogation from the common organization of the market in bananas is a very important one. the subject is of particular importance because of its urgency, since we have very little time left to launch the new procedure, given that the current system expires at the end of january and a bilateral agreement between the eib and the commission must be reached. i would therefore like to thank mrs rühle for her budgetary work and especially for her excellent cooperation on this specific aspect of the forecasting of the subjects. on this basis, i would add, with regard to the report, that many subjects were accepted but that there were others which could not be accepted either for technical or economic reasons. our positions are well known and i do not know whether it is useful to recall them. perhaps i should insist only on the last proposal, which is amendment no 11. as we have already said, we think that it is much better, as far as policy-making is concerned, to talk about a solution by a statement from the commission to the council than to talk about an amendment to the decision. nevertheless, the point which has raised concerns today in the debate is the question of transparency and the proper use of community resources. it is true that this is not a new subject, that many of you have been working on it for many, many years, and i would like to be a little less negative than some of you. less negative in the sense that i think the framework for the relationship between the eib, olaf and the court of auditors is becoming quite clear. it is true - and some of you have said this - that there is a problem of primary legislation in relation to relations with the court of auditors, which will obviously have to be amended if the european investment bank is to be treated in the same way as the community institutions. i would like to emphasize again a matter which is well known but no less important, namely that the member states are the shareholders of the eib and that it is for them to take certain decisions and therefore not for other community institutions. we are not talking about greater or lesser representativeness but simply about a distribution of competences which, in its time, has been defined in a certain way. second point: so, where have we progressed? i think we have made significant progress in that the european investment bank has agreed that olaf should be fully informed and have everything necessary to analyse soft loans made with community funds, which should undoubtedly be our main concern. it is true that there is still debate about what happens to the eib's actions when it uses own resources. and it is true that when we speak of own resources, we are talking about two different things at the same time: loans from own resources and guarantees from the union, or loans from the union without guarantees. i would like to see the principle of openness that has been established in relations with the eib continue and that we can finally reach a satisfactory result for parliament and the european investment bank, without forgetting, as you said earlier, that the eib is a financial institution which can provide information without any restrictions on any subject. it can give information, with certain restrictions, to olaf and, of course, as far as the court of justice is concerned, the final position will have to be determined in accordance with the amendment of the treaties. in any case, i found the debate very interesting and i hope that what i have heard today will not, however, be an obstacle so that we can continue with the approval of the distribution of resources, the distribution of loans, from next year and that the community procedures are not delayed.
- thank you, commissioner solbes mira. - i have to go. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0054/1999) by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a council decision granting a community guarantee to the european investment bank for projects for the reconstruction of the earthquake-stricken regions of turkey (com (1999) 498 final - c5-0247/1999 - 1999/0212 (cns)).
commission. - (es) thank you, mr seppänen, for your presentation and for the report. i would like to comment on this report. first of all - and i want to reassure mr korakas - we are talking about humanitarian aid, a process which is different from any other aid programme in the union, whether it be the financial protocol or any other programme. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. we think that this does not change the quantity in substance but we think that differentiating between the damage caused by this or that earthquake would be difficult to understand in a program of this nature. i would like to address, after this first comment, the two problems raised in the report. the first problem is the risk of exceeding the total loan type or amount of the loan reserve and guarantee. according to our information, it's not. we have carried out a thorough and detailed analysis and, according to the information available on the basis of the maximum use assumptions, there is still a carry-over of eur 33 million in 1999, eur 8.7 million in 2000, about eur 7 million in 2001 and, although it is certain that the situation will be fully adjusted in 2002, the carry-overs reappear in 2003. this suggests that it is not logical to change the reserve system at the moment because this problem would only arise if we used up to the maximum all that is currently available. you may ask what would happen if other situations like these occurred and we had to go further. that is why the commission still has room to consider this possibility of increasing the reserve fund, even though we do not feel that it is necessary to do so at present. as for the possibility of 60 or 65%, we might agree with your idea of accepting 60% instead of 65, which seems to us to be a coherent idea. the problem is that this would imply a change in the standards currently applicable, which in turn would lead to a delay in the decision-making process in the field of humanitarian aid, one of the main features of which is the urgency, in order to be able to quickly overcome the problems in turkey. i therefore hope that my explanations will be satisfactory, that parliament will be able to reconsider its requests, that the utmost urgency will be given to accepting this decision with the guarantee that if there are any problems from the financial point of view in the future, the commission will raise the need to go further with the reserve fund.
- thank you very much, commissioner solbes mira. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. i want to thank you all for being patient for so long. (the sitting was closed at 7.55 p.m.) composition of parliament - agenda for the next sitting: see minutes
- (de) mr president, according to the minutes, yesterday's vote ended at 2.35 p.m. but according to my documents, it was actually 2:45. but i would also like to say that we had to submit to an inhuman voting procedure for three and a half hours because of the laziness of some colleagues who wanted to leave prematurely once again, putting us under very high pressure from that moment on. i would ask you not to use this procedure in the future. the one who leaves is the only one in the wrong, or to quote lenin and gorbachev, the one who leaves before the hour is always punished by life. he no longer has a majority and one day it is the voter who ends up punishing him. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like many of my colleagues, i voted in favour of mrs giannakou-koutsikou's report. yet we should remember this morning that this report has been a source of controversy in this house for months. in committee alone, 130 amendments were tabled. it took weeks to reach a compromise. all this so that this report can finally be voted on this friday morning by a very small number of members. if i recall the debates yesterday at noon, in particular the remarks by mr poettering, who stressed the importance and seriousness of this issue now and the need to reach an agreement before the end of this week, the intensity of his speech seems to me to be inversely proportional to the presence of members of his own parliamentary group this morning. that is why i regret that such an important project is receiving so little attention. it is even more deplorable when the speakers to whom i refer subsequently engage in long talks. we have voted in favour of the report, however, so that mrs giannakou-koutsikou can go home with the support of a large majority.
- (de) on the newton dunn report, i should like to add briefly to the minutes the reason why our group in this parliament rejected this report. this is because we disagreed with the legal basis on which it is based. in this case, it was a classic decision on where to place a process in one of the various pillars of our legal base. mr. newton dunn had chosen the first pillar. we would prefer to keep this in the third pillar. the range of offenders guilty of forging travel documents is indeed wider than in the first pillar, where mr newton dunn has placed it. here, the prosecution for forgery of documents is exclusively for illegal immigrants. this may be very clever ideologically, but it is wrong politically, because dealers who falsify documents must also be prosecuted. we did not vote against the practical proposals put forward by mr newton dunn to combat the falsification of documents - we support them - it was only a disagreement on the legal basis. thank you for your attention. i would also like to thank mr poettering and mr pirker for their attention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make use of them. following its examination of the apim/arbitrio on production and imports in the archipelago, the commission came to the conclusion that even if the majority of economic sectors were to succeed in adapting to the single market criteria, the disappearance of the apim by 31 december 2000 would risk irreparably affecting certain production sectors. this problem has already been raised in this house. in collaboration with the spanish and canarian authorities, the commission has drawn up a list of the most sensitive products in a number of sectors. the commission considers that the dismantling of the levy on these products should be suspended for a transitional period not exceeding 30 june 2000. i am pleased to note that mr medina ortega's report broadly supports the approach suggested by the commission. however, it regrets that the proposed measure applies only to a limited number of products and does not rely on the legal basis provided by article 299 (2) of the treaty. i can assure you that the commission fully understands this position. however, i would draw your attention to the fact that this measure is only a limited adaptation of the current provisions. it must therefore be distinguished from any other measure which would be taken on the basis of the new article 299 (2) of the treaty. the proposal states that the commission, in collaboration with the spanish authorities, will examine, before the tax is dismantled, its impact on the sectors concerned. if necessary, the commission will submit to the council a proposal based on article 299 (2) and providing for the necessary measures to avoid threatening the existence of certain particularly fragile local activities. the products listed in the annex to this proposal are the result of joint work by the spanish, canarian and commission authorities. any amendment to this list of products must therefore be justified from an economic point of view and must be analysed by the competent commission departments to verify the consistency of the measures in question with its other policies. the commission has not yet received such justification which would allow it to consider amending the annex to the regulation. the commission is therefore unable to accept the amendments to extend the list of products. in any event, mr president, and mr rapporteur, rest assured that in the future negotiations on a proposal for the canary islands based on article 299 (2) of the treaty, the commission will take into account your comments on the subject and those expressed by parliament during this debate. let me thank you all for your support of this proposal and i promise to bring this matter to the attention of the responsible commissioner.
commission. - the council regulation of 29 june 1998 states that 'the commission shall regularly report to the council on the market situation and shall determine whether european yards are affected by anti-competitive practices. if it is established that industry is suffering from any form of anti-competitive practice, the commission shall, where appropriate, propose to the council measures to remedy the problem. the first report shall be submitted to the council by 31 september 1999 at the latest.' in accordance with this obligation, the commission has drawn up its first report which concludes that the shipbuilding sector in the world market is facing serious overcapacity problems. the situation continues to deteriorate with the incessant increase in capacity, the increase in competition and the fall in prices. the report examined in detail nine contracts awarded to korean shipyards and concluded that none of them were awarded at full cost prices, which is causing a detriment to eu shipyards. the report suggests that action be taken by the member states and the imf-world bank to see whether the conditions of the (imf-led) rescue package for korea are fully met in the case of the yards. industry, member states and the commission should gather all necessary information that can serve as a basis for the preparation and filing of a complaint for an obstacle to trade and for assessing the appropriateness of an action before the wto. in addition, the commission should continue to monitor the market in cooperation with industry and, finally, all parties concerned should strive to create a level playing field for the whole sector. the industry council considered the commission's report at its meeting on 9 november 1999 and published its own conclusions on the situation in the global shipbuilding sector. like the commission, it stresses the critical situation of the shipbuilding industry worldwide and calls for further action to remedy it. following the council meeting, bilateral discussions took place between the korean minister for trade and his european counterparts from the directorates-general for enterprise and trade. a bilateral meeting between korean and european industry and administrations is being prepared for mid-december 1999. the intention is to hold a meeting on shipbuilding in the context of the oecd. the commission will continue its monitoring efforts with the help of industry and will cross-check and evaluate all information and documents gathered, in line with the council conclusions. if necessary, further meetings will be arranged. the commission will present its conclusions to the industry council and the european parliament in the spring of next year. my colleagues, mr lamy and mr solbes mira, are working closely with me on this. it is on the basis of this report that appropriate measures will have to be adopted.
- mr president, mr liikanen, i would like to make a plea. the council of industry ministers met on 9 november. i have said this in my region: europe has finally found clear words, but now action must follow. we are now sending a signal to south korea to stop its unfair competitive practices in the shipbuilding sector. we will not tolerate the european maritime industry, which has had such difficulty in modernising itself, being excluded from the market today by such irregular methods. in germany alone, more than 21 000 jobs in shipbuilding and 125 000 in the subcontracting sector are at risk. the irony of the situation lies above all in the fact that these hidden subsidies were also made possible by the international monetary fund's credits to overcome the financial crisis affecting the far east. mr liikanen, it was only after the very interesting commission report of 13 october, the maritime industry action day, that europe finally got the yellow card through the council of industry ministers. if korea were to continue its dumping practices, severe sanctions should be imposed. the european shipbuilding industry is facing a very worrying crisis. this is not new. we must decide as soon as possible whether we want to invest in it and thereby ensure the survival of the entire maritime industry in europe, or whether we prefer to leave this high-technology sector to others. there can be only one answer to that question. it's a profession of faith in favor of our shipyards. everyone who is concerned with shipbuilding knows that it is a high-tech sector and that it can once again be described as a sector of the future. that is why europe must not and cannot give up on it. but this sector also has its detractors. firstly, some consider shipbuilding to be a heavy industry that is out of date and too expensive to maintain artificially. however, a glance at or visit to a high-performance european shipyard can easily demonstrate the opposite. i'd be happy to spare you such visits. trust me, it's worth it. secondly, it is enough for shipbuilding to be partly identified as a high-tech sector for shipbuilders to be accused of over-dramatising its situation. they would only be interested in the financial advantages they could obtain from the state and the european union. this must also exist in other sectors. third, who gets the money? the shipowner or the shipyard ? the image of shipbuilding has changed completely, and quite dramatically. the structural changes in the sector have led to a massive loss of jobs, both in small coastal areas and in monopolistic port cities. new technologies, fields of activity, management spheres in particular and new tasks have supplanted the old kontikis and warships. transport projects such as road to sea, in order to reduce congestion on road networks, require boats of all kinds, such as just in time feeder and modern container ships, speed boats, high speed yachts, multipurpose boats used for fishing and coastal surveillance, small and large cruise ships, etc. european shipbuilding know-how both in traditional sales and in new market sectors remains a reliable, sustainable and obvious resource. it therefore represents added value for europe. in this respect, medium-sized shipyards have developed a huge pool of ideas. but if production and acquisition require money, so does research and development. this is where the help comes in. those who know me know that i am a fierce opponent of subsidies of all kinds, because they always have the inevitable consequence of distorting competition. i'm not on the budgetary control committee for nothing. one thing is clear: korea is selling itself short. if she continues, she runs to her own destruction. secondly, the korean economy is part of the world market. however, new negotiations are expected to start shortly in the wto. thirdly, korea needs help to recover from its state bankruptcy. the imf's payments are straightforward. fourthly, europe needs korea. one need only look at the order books and the volume of investment, without taking into account the global overcapacities already mentioned. clearly, as long as a trade policy guaranteeing fair competition has not been created - by both korea and europe - through bilateral and/or multilateral negotiations within the framework of the oecd, the imf or the wto, as mr liikanen mentioned, various measures will have to be taken. these measures will apply until the current crisis is resolved. i think that direct aid, but only for this purpose, is very important for the time being. on the other hand, a return to individual european solutions could only distort intra-european competition further. so we need to find a strategy that takes a different route. and it is on this path that we would like to support the commission and the council of industry ministers with all our strength.
- (de) madam president, what you have just said is quite correct. it is certainly very positive to hear many opinions on this important issue, but we already know that many other colleagues want to speak. that is why we should now concentrate on the work on the agenda. the commission is present. mrs. reding is preparing to present her report. we should get to work. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - this is a very complicated question, madam president, because the answer can only be given once the political and sporting worlds have come together. we are concerned that everything should be put back in order and that there should be a balance in sport again, that fair play and genuine competition should regain their noble character. it is not easy, it is a gigantic task, but i think that with the help of parliamentarians and with the help, the pressure of the public, we can achieve it. it is also very clear that we can only act on the social element of sport, on sport education. when sport is pure commerce, there will be no exceptions. sport will then be treated like any other commercial activity. it's clear and clean. only when sport has an important social function can we help it, help it, restore order. but commercial sport will be considered and treated as any other business, in any order.
- (de) madam president, mrs reding, i would like to congratulate you sincerely on your initiative on doping. we can all only hope that you can make some progress with these gentlemen and ladies who keep on claiming that they are against doping. i think we're on the right track and i congratulate you on that. i would like to return to what mr cohn-bendit said. we cannot legislate because, as you said, the treaty offers no legal basis. you know that in my 1996 report i asked on behalf of parliament that sport should finally be included in the treaty. we wanted to have a line devoted to it under article 128 on culture. we have not succeeded in doing so. there is a kind of declaration attached to the treaty, but it is not enough to prevent the budgetary debate every year from leading us to ask whether we should spend money on sport. i think that if all that you have said, if all that you will present to the helsinki council really makes sense, then the conclusion must be that the european community is not limited to expressing itself on a bosman judgment and competition issues in the field of sport but that it gives value to sport by actually mentioning it in the treaty. only then will we be able to do what our colleague mr cohn-bendit has mentioned and provide really reasonable budgetary support for international sporting events. i would ask you to convince your fellow commissioners that, at the helsinki summit, they will take a step in the right direction together with the council by incorporating sport into the treaty. only then can we make real progress in this area. (applause) i would like to thank
counsel. - (fi) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the last month of the finnish presidency begins today. in the past few months i have had the opportunity to speak in the european parliament on several occasions and to meet you on various occasions. i think that the discussions i had with you were fruitful and useful. in just over a week's time, our heads of government and heads of state will be travelling to helsinki for the last european council of the millennium. on behalf of myself and my government, madam president, i would like to welcome you in advance as a representative of the european parliament to the city where i live and which you will see for yourself in december. i look forward to your intervention and the debate that will follow. the most important issue of the future european council is the enlargement of the european union. in helsinki, the european union will set in motion the process that will prepare it for a time when it will be worthy of its name: an open, europe-wide and effectively functioning union. as regards enlargement, the negotiations under the finnish presidency have so far proceeded in accordance with our plans. we have started seven new negotiating chapters with the candidate countries already involved in the negotiations and we hope to do the same with an eighth chapter, which has proved difficult, the one on the environment. the result is in line with the objectives we set ourselves. as regards the future, the member states agree that it may be decided to open negotiations with lithuania, latvia, slovakia, bulgaria, romania and malta. although these countries have great disparities in political and economic development, the time has now come to invite them to the negotiating table. enlargement is largely a process of adaptation. the candidate countries and the european union itself must adapt to a europe whose key engine of change is a european union of 25 or even 30 member states. the fact that the candidate countries are brought to the negotiating table gives them the support they need on their way to democracy, the rule of law and a healthy national economy. it is not easy to continue negotiations with 12 countries simultaneously. it is of paramount importance that the accession criteria defined at the copenhagen european council are respected. the negotiations must, however, be conducted in such a way that each candidate country has the opportunity to progress in accordance with its own capabilities. for enlargement to progress on a sound basis, we also need to have the courage to be open and honest both with ourselves and with the candidate countries and their people. the european union is not yet in a position to tell any candidate country the date on which it will become a member of the union. even setting timetable targets is, in this context, very ambitious. but what the union can do is set itself objectives and at the same time let others know on what conditions and when it will be ready for enlargement. one of the most thorny issues and one which has generated the most discussion from the outset is that of turkey. the presidency confirmed the links between the european union and turkey. i am particularly pleased that relations between greece and turkey have improved and that both countries are supporting the un negotiations on cyprus. as the representative of the country holding the presidency, i hope that the european council will be able to recognise turkey as a candidate country for european union membership. it is clear to all that turkey still has a long and difficult road ahead of it before it meets the copenhagen criteria. this is of course primarily turkey's task. but the question is also how the european union can best promote democratic development and strengthen the forces seeking democracy in the country in question. the decision of the turkish court of cassation to uphold the death sentence of kurdish leader abdullah öcalan was a worrying, if predictable, development. i expressed the presidency's position as soon as the decision was made public. i have reiterated our position: the european union does not accept the death penalty. i have appealed for the sentence not to be carried out and for the turks to await the decision of the european court of human rights in strasbourg. in other words, i asked that turkey stick to the line it has adopted so far, which is in practice a moratorium on capital punishment. we are now finalising the presidency's report on the next intergovernmental conference which is to be presented to the european council. the report is divided into two parts, the first of which deals with the issues likely to be on the igc agenda. under the mandate given to us in cologne, preparations focused on the size of the commission, the new weighting of votes in the council, the increased use of qualified majority voting and certain other institutional issues which are closely linked to these themes. the second part of the report contains items which one or more member states would like to see on the agenda. the other themes related to the three main themes were the subject of a lively debate. the development of the activities of the court of justice and the court of auditors, the distribution of seats in the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, the responsibilities of the members of the commission and external economic relations were among the subjects discussed on various occasions. these themes are closely linked to the work of the institutions in an enlarging union and therefore have their place in the next igc. among the themes not included in the cologne mandate i would mention those relating to defence and flexibility, which have received a great deal of attention here in the european parliament. an old finnish proverb says: "what is well thought out is half done". we will endeavour in our report to prepare the work of the igc so that portugal can start the process of the intergovernmental conference as soon as possible, perhaps as early as february 2000, and that the conference can be concluded by the end of the same year. the intergovernmental conference is not, however, the only way to make the european union's activities more efficient and to reform them. i would remind you that reforms can also be made without changing the treaties. during the autumn, member states held talks with each other and partially implemented the recommendations of the trumpf-piris report on strengthening the council's powers of action. the presidency also tried to take concrete steps to promote transparency. for example, we have published the agendas and timetables of council meetings and working groups on our own initiative on the internet. i am pleased to announce that a considerable part of these reforms will remain in force on a permanent basis. the general affairs council should take a decision on this on our initiative. this decision provides that the council will publish in the future the agendas of the meetings of the committees and councils with the references to the documents as far as legislation is concerned. we also look forward to the commission's proposal for the implementation of the amsterdam treaty's transparency rule, i.e. article 255. finland would have liked to have started work during its presidency, but what is important is that we have a well-prepared proposal by the beginning of next year. the cologne european council clearly limited the development of the common security and defence policy to crisis management. it will therefore not be a debate on a common defence as such. to develop the european union's crisis management capabilities, the helsinki council will focus on the assessment of a target level and the resources it implies in all areas of crisis management. we are also prepared to make proposals on the institutions to improve the decision-making of the european union on crisis management. we will also have to consider our relations with third countries which have the desire and the capacity to participate in joint activities. the european union's particular strength compared with military organisations such as nato or weu is that its activity covers many sectors and is very global in nature. the european union will have all the instruments at its disposal for managing crises, not only political, economic and humanitarian resources, but also, in the future, military crisis management. it is also expected to improve the eu's capacity to prevent crises. the helsinki european council is likely to decide to strengthen the compatibility of resources of member states, the european union and ngos in civil crisis management and to make them available more quickly. the need to avoid redundancies will also probably be emphasised. efforts will be made to develop the european union's contribution to the activities of other organisations, such as the un, the osce and the council of europe. we must ensure that cooperation on the ground is smooth. we are also exploring the possibilities of creating a common data bank and a coordination system. similarly, the european union's capacity to act independently will be strengthened. improving the availability of plainclothes police for crisis management is considered an urgent task. the conclusions of the helsinki summit should allow the european union to develop its civilian crisis management capacity more rapidly, in the same way as the cologne summit gave impetus to the development of military crisis management. before moving on to military crisis management, i would like to stress that although military and civilian crisis management are two separate things, they must also be able to adapt to each other in a harmonious way. the strengthening of resources is also likely to be given prominence in the helsinki conclusions on military crisis management. it would appear that member states are now prepared to adopt a common target level. negotiations are still under way to determine how precisely and at what level this target could be set. in any case, the aim is to achieve the full range of petersberg missions. the european union is thus reorganising its military crisis management resources and structures. the preparations for the helsinki european council indicate a target level of an order of magnitude and difficulty corresponding in practice to the current operations in bosnia and kosovo. some 50 000 eu soldiers are involved in these operations. according to the plans, the troops should be ready in 60 days and able to operate in the crisis zone for two years without interruption. the target is expected to be reached around 2002-03. the development work itself would focus on the capabilities of the troops through training and equipment upgrading. where do we see gaps? this has been seen in the field of intelligence, in control systems and, above all, in air transport capabilities. in this respect, europe is far from being self-sufficient. the helsinki european council is also to decide on the new bodies needed in connection with crisis management: political committee, security committee, military committee, civilian crisis management coordination body and military staff responsible for analytical work. the cologne council set the objective of replacing weu with a european union activity and direct cooperation with nato in the petersberg missions of a military nature. to this end, it was decided to create a cooperation mechanism allowing the six european nato countries not members of the european union to participate as widely as possible. similarly, cooperation arrangements will need to be established for the eu's other european partners. in the absence of specific arrangements, it should be possible in helsinki to define at least general guidelines. the aim is to establish a cooperation mechanism for general contacts on crisis management prior to the decision to launch an operation. i would like to remind you, however, that in the preparations it was taken for granted that the decision to launch an operation would in any event always be taken by the european union itself. this decision will require unanimity. in addition, the decision of the member states to participate or not will of course be theirs alone. in what i have just said, i have deliberately used terms which refer to the future, because even now the representatives of the member states are negotiating on these issues and the last general affairs council will meet next week, on 6 december. but that is the situation at the moment. in my speech i have only touched on some of the most important issues to be discussed at the european council. in addition to these themes, the helsinki summit will address issues related to economic and employment policy. the guidelines for employment policies in 2000 to be adopted at the summit imply considerable effort on the part of the member states towards a policy of improving employment. in addition to employment issues themselves, helsinki will also discuss the coordination of economic policy, the functioning of the internal market and the information society. but the european parliament probably already knows that. this brief overview - which was too long - focused on the main topics of the summit and i would just like to end by briefly mentioning one more issue. on the first day of the summit, we intend to adopt together, on behalf of the european union, a declaration on the millennium. in this short and clear statement, we should be able to say why the european union is useful, what we have achieved so far, what challenges lie ahead and how we will meet those challenges. a task that is nothing short of easy. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the heads of state and government of the european union will soon be meeting in helsinki for a summit with a very busy agenda. i would first like to congratulate the finnish presidency on the hard work and care it has put into preparing this european council. i am convinced that all these efforts will make this summit a great success. one of the main items on the agenda of the helsinki council will of course be enlargement. in the overview paper published last month, the commission strongly advocated the need to maintain the momentum of reform in the candidate countries. these countries have made considerable efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria, and we should reward them for their efforts in order to encourage them to make further progress in this direction without claiming victory. if it fails, some of these countries could become frustrated and turn their backs on the union: their economies would then start to drift, progress towards democracy and respect for human rights would risk being undermined and we would have missed - perhaps forever - a historic opportunity. this is why the accession process must be both swift and cautious. in this respect, i hope that the helsinki summit will adopt the accession strategy we recommended last october and decide - provided the necessary conditions are met - to open accession negotiations next year with bulgaria, latvia, lithuania, malta, romania and slovakia. i hope that the helsinki summit will therefore vote in favour of a very flexible and multi-speed accession process, which will make it possible to conduct negotiations with each of the 12 applicant countries in parallel with the political and economic progress achieved. this system - sometimes compared to an online departure - will allow each country to move at its own pace, be judged on its own merits and join the union when it is able to meet all the obligations of membership. i also hope that the european council will grant turkey official candidate status. it is clear that accession negotiations with turkey can only be opened if it fulfils the political criteria of copenhagen, which so clearly emphasize human rights, respect for minorities and complete freedom of religion. in this connection, i too refer to what the finnish foreign minister said about the serious problem that the öcalan case is. however, by granting it the status of candidate country, we would give this country an excellent reason to continue its efforts in the right direction. another important item on the agenda of the helsinki council will of course be the intergovernmental conference (igc), which must complete the institutional reforms needed to prepare the european union for enlargement. i hope that the summit will agree to launch this conference immediately, because the enlargement process will begin in about three years and will continue uninterrupted for a few more years. in practice, this means that the necessary reforms will have to be completed by the end of 2002 if we are to be ready in time. so, as the ratification deadlines are very short, we do not have much time. what institutional reforms are needed? they were outlined in the conclusions of the cologne european council, and the discussions on the scope of these reforms began with the report i commissioned from mr dehaene, mr von weizsäcker and lord simon. the european parliament made contributions, as did the commission in the document it published on 10 november. the presidency of the council must submit its conclusions to the european council. i believe there is a growing consensus among us as to what reforms are needed. firstly, there are the issues specifically dealt with in amsterdam, namely the number of commissioners, the representation of the member states in the council and the extension of qualified majority voting, all of which are interrelated. these questions then raise the following problems: enlargement will have repercussions on all the community bodies and institutions, such as the court of justice and, of course, the parliament, which will have to accommodate up to 700 representatives in all after the arrival of new member states; the co-decision procedure should also be extended to legislation already voted on by qualified majority. finally, there are issues for which preparatory work will have to be carried out outside the framework of the igc, but which could, at the end of the conference, be included in the treaty or affect it in some way. i am thinking for example of specific aspects, such as discussions on security and defence, above all. the european council will adopt important decisions on security and defence, and on the management of the non-military aspects of international crises. the commission has been closely involved in the policy-making process leading to the establishment of the new operational structures to move forward on the path of integration already traced in cologne. i welcome these fundamental developments and reiterate my commitment to ensure that the helsinki summit achieves this ambitious outcome while ensuring that these positive developments are consistent with the union's institutional set-up. the commission intends to do all it can to implement the decisions taken by the heads of state or government, in particular as regards the procedures to be followed for providing assistance in international crises. i am thinking both of the financial commitment that must be guaranteed and of the need to send experts who can take the necessary emergency measures on the ground. this will mean a great deal of organizational and managerial effort for our departments, and these are problems which cannot be ignored. on a more general level, i would like to point out that a european security and defence policy requires the creation of a european military industry that is technologically and financially competitive. the commission intends to encourage this process by using the instruments at its disposal in the fields of the internal market, trade policy and competition, and i am pleased with the changes that are already taking place. the work begun in tampere on the drafting of a charter of fundamental rights and the possible restructuring of the treaty, which would separate the basic texts from the implementing provisions. the essential texts will thus be more legible, while the others can be amended by a less restrictive procedure. i do not underestimate the technical and political difficulties that lie ahead. the commission will initially ask high-level experts to carry out a detailed feasibility study on this subject. i am therefore going to ask the university institute of florence - which has specialists in this field from all the european countries - to analyse this problem. when that is done, we will need to consider carefully how to apply this interesting idea. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, all these questions must be answered if we are to have our institutions functioning effectively in an enlarged european union. it is essential first of all to reduce the number of decisions which still have to be taken unanimously. the unanimity rule leads to total paralysis or to the systematic search for the lowest common denominator. it is tantamount to losing in today's world, where immediate action is required in areas vital to the future of the european union. this is the case, for example, in the following areas: the trade negotiations which are beginning in seattle, in which the union must exert its full weight; justice and home affairs, which were given priority by the heads of state or government following the tampere summit; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fight against harmful tax competition is not only an important initiative, but also an essential part of our employment strategy. if we continue to raise our taxes on labour, as we have done so far, our employment policy will certainly be contradictory. on all these fronts, europe is handicapped by the rule of unanimity, like a soldier trying to advance the ball with his feet. i hope that the helsinki summit, by launching the reform process, will make clear our ambition and political will to free the union from this obstacle and to tackle the other crucial issues facing it. parliament will of course be fully associated with the igc. the european union exists for its citizens, whom you represent, and it is their interests that the reforms envisaged must serve. that is why i want to see parliament play a key role in the reform process and in building the enlarged europe of tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the helsinki summit of 10 and 11 december is of great importance for our continent in the 21st century and for the european union in particular. madam president-in-office of the council, we are very pleased with the decision to open negotiations with latvia and lithuania, slovakia, bulgaria, romania and malta. i also hope that when we conduct the negotiations with the three baltic republics, it will be clear that, together with the european union, the security of these three states is in good hands. in the last few days i have spoken with representatives of all three countries. they are very concerned about russia's behavior in chechnya. it is therefore wise that we start negotiations with all three states, not just estonia, with which negotiations are already under way, so that these three states know that they are part of our community and that they will soon be members of the european union, which will guarantee their security. (applause) i would like to thank the epp-ed group does not hide its unease with turkey. we have been and remain a friend of turkey. we are the group in the european parliament which has been strongly and above all committed to the customs union. but there is also a large minority in our group who do not share the majority view. the majority of us believe that if turkey becomes a member of the european union, we must be very clear that this union will be qualitatively different politically, economically and culturally. madam president-in-office, i know that in the past you have shown a strong personal commitment to ensuring that the kurdish problem is taken into account and discussed. you know exactly what i'm talking about. if the epp supports this compromise text, i ask the other groups to accept our request to finally start a debate on the geographical enlargement of the european union. we also expect the council of ministers to announce its intentions on how to proceed with the geographical enlargement of the european union. we'll have to discuss that in the weeks and months ahead. let us now turn to the intergovernmental conference. madam president-in-office, i am sure you will succeed in making it clear to helsinki that we cannot confine ourselves to the three areas which were left on the table in amsterdam. the decisive element is, of course, the extension of the decision to the majority. but the fact that the european parliament is given the power of codecision in all areas which will be subject to majority voting in the council of ministers is also decisive. if we want to be represented by the european union in the context of economic globalisation and increasing political interdependence, we must finally give the union legal competence so that the representatives of the european union can act on behalf of the european union. today the european union is nothing. she can't even buy a house. that is the reality and that is why we must also tackle these problems. there are many other questions. i am concerned to say to you - and i ask the council, but also the commission, to consider this very seriously - that there can be no enlargement of the european union unless certain very specific conditions are met. i am a strong supporter of enlargement because after liberating themselves from communism, the countries of central europe have the right to join our community of values. but i say to you with equal force that if enlargement threatens to dissolve or even dilute the european union and if, as a result, we are no longer just an economic and financial organisation and no longer a political union, if enlargement contains this danger, then we must say no to enlargement. this means that the reforms must come before the european parliament. i can only advise the council of ministers to make every effort to give the intergovernmental conference a full mandate and to place the european parliament and its two representatives on an equal footing. we are talking about defence policy, a subject which the european parliament has been advocating for decades. there must be a european defence. but if we are talking about european defence, we must also take practical measures in this area. i am very concerned to see that in my country, for example, the defence budget is being cut, which means that we cannot achieve what we say we want to achieve and that would be the worst thing ever. it is pointless to talk about european defence and to put it in the treaties without giving it substance. that is why it is important to provide it, to equip ourselves with the necessary capacities without generating opposition from our american partners and friends. we do not want to oppose the united states but to treat it as an equal and to act in partnership. if we go down this road, it will also benefit the western alliance as a whole. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, the whole house agrees with you: helsinki must give new impetus to the process of enlargement of the european union. the negotiations which we propose to engage with each of the 12 applicant countries separately cannot be confined to a technical process. the last intergovernmental conference of this millennium also puts an end to a millennium of european war and you must lay the foundations which will ensure that there will never again be a millennium of european war. this is the aim of enlargement and the desire to unite all of europe in a european union. we support what you have said about the negotiations and how they should be conducted, madam president-in-office, and we also support what mr prodi has said on this subject. we find all this just and good. but we are still hungry for what you said about the preparation for membership and the famous leftovers from amsterdam. we want a comprehensive reform of the european union. if we want to welcome in this european union, in this european house where there are already fifteen occupants, twelve additional inhabitants, it is not enough to clean up; we have to rebuild this house. i have heard too little about this, not only from you but also from the other governments of the european union. i know what you're thinking and what you might be considering. some small reforms during this igc and after the igc next year, another igc, etc., etc. i say to you: the citizens of the european union are tired of seeing the eu dragging itself from one igc to another and, by taking such small steps, no longer perceiving the general direction. we must also make clear to them our vision of the european union and its future, instead of seeing the union dragging its feet from one conference to another. as regards the common defence policy, we welcome the statement you have made today, but the european summits must stop wasting their time on statements and documents. we want the necessary decisions to be taken in helsinki, we want concrete initiatives to be proposed on the civil and military aspects of the common defence policy and we want the operational capabilities and the institutions within which the decisions are to be taken to be designated. finally, on 12 december, the day after the helsinki meeting, we want to be able to speak of a genuine european summit, a summit which will really allow us to look ahead to the next millennium and not a molehill of which we will not be aware. you have the responsibility and the opportunity to make the finnish presidency of the end of this century a great presidency. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, i am glad that the commission is finally taking a much needed step by proposing a revision strategy. this cannot, however, hide the fact that the enlargement strategy has still not been revised in concrete areas, namely aid, transparency and parity. what is still lacking in these countries is public debate, social dialogue, involvement at regional and local level: all these things are obvious in our country and cannot take place in these countries because the eu instruments do not allow it. i would also like to stress the importance of the presidency reviving the discussion forum by means of a new european conference and thus involving the future eu members equally in the reorganisation of the european union. this applies both to institutional reforms and to the common objective of meeting the kyoto commitments.
- (de) mr president, allow me to continue with mr gawronski's last remarks and speak of the acceptance of the european idea among the people of the various countries aspiring to join the european union. enthusiasm for the european union has its limits in poland, but also in other countries such as the czech republic. i would point out that the commission's regular report on the czech republic mentions an average town in that country where the czechs have erected a fence separating them from the roma. that's not very nice of you. i went there twice, talked to the mayor and told him that fence had to be removed. what happened? what happened? the sensationalist press of the european union has made this fence into a wall, as if it were not even the berlin wall but the great wall of china. the situation has been so heated that the czechs have naturally become irritated, feeling that there is a "double standard" in the european union. we are not amateurs, of course, but we are asking applicants to do things we cannot do ourselves. if we look around us in the european union and see the ethnic conflicts that are taking place, sometimes even terrorist attacks, i think that if we were in the opposite situation and the czech republic, for example, were already in the union, it would say to some member states: my dear friends, if you do not put this conflict in order, you will surely have to wait another twenty years before becoming a member. i simply want to say that we must be careful not to frighten the populace. the question is not of getting along with the political class of the applicant countries but with their populations. that's all that matters.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like the previous speakers, i naturally welcome the fact that the council is presenting us with its first annual report on human rights. parliament had repeatedly demanded it. there is an important point i would like to highlight which has been included in many treaties concluded with third countries since 1995; i am referring to the human rights clauses. they form an essential part of the treaties. individuals and fundamental rights are therefore contractually outside the authority of the other contracting party, regardless of the fact that we have always held that the requirement of respect for human rights does not constitute interference in the internal affairs of a country. in practice, the european commission and the member states must now have the political will, in the face of a concrete case, not only to find a violation of human rights, and therefore of an essential element of the treaty, but also to apply the legal consequences provided for. as a rule, these proceedings begin with consultation and may extend to the suspension of parts of the treaty or the whole of it. however, we all know what it is in practice. there is a constant tendency to put aside human rights issues because of considerations that are foreign to the subject or even disturbing. either they threaten a lucrative market or we need the consent of a particular government, for example in the context of a specific body at the level of the united nations. fortunately, the ngos active in this field do not indulge in such misplaced considerations. i would like to take this opportunity to thank them sincerely for their work. we members of this house and in our national parliaments should not be so considerate either. the report on human rights violations cannot be a matter of political expediency. we can regularly observe that the recipients, i.e. governments, who are publicly accused of human rights violations suffer the most and try to avoid it. if we could ensure that no government or company would sacrifice the solidarity of the democratic international community for the sake of a contract, those governments would have no chance of playing both sides of the table. a country like china, for example, always needs our technology. we should not ignore the fate of thousands of prisoners of conscience or oppressed groups such as tibetans for the construction of a subway or the smooth running of a state visit. i am therefore quite prepared to add to this report many other documents on the subject of human rights. for the next report i would like more details on the individual countries and on the cases where the council or the commission has made a specific complaint to a government. in such cases, it might also be proposed not to mention the situation as long as it is put in order before the next report is published. if you can't get anything past the bottom, you can be quite flexible on the form.
- thank you, colleague. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0071/1999, by mr morillon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the implementation of measures to promote the economic and social development of turkey (com (1998) 600 - c4-0670/1998 - 1998/0300 (cod)) - a5-0070/1999 by mr morillon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, on the proposal for a council regulation on the implementation of measures to promote the economic and social development of turkey (com (98) 600 - c4-0669/1998 - 1998/0299 (cns)).
- (de) mr president, the european union is faced with a major decision which could radically alter its relationship with turkey. the commission has proposed granting candidate status to turkey. if the helsinki council were to accept this proposal, the foundations for a new form of dialogue with the european union would be laid for turkey, as ankara would then have a prospect of future membership. it would also imply that the union should live up to its promises. the rapporteur's proposals make it possible to correct the mistakes made in 1995, when the european union decided to intensify its relations with turkey without providing the necessary financial assistance. financial assistance to turkey cannot be separated from its obligations in the fields of social and democratic development, the rule of law, respect for human rights and minorities. this is a point which is raised in both reports because it is important that participation in the european economic system goes hand in hand with democratic developments. another important point is the involvement of the european parliament. its deliberations can bring greater transparency and strengthen the political and democratic profile of the eu-turkey relationship. the öcalan case - i mean the death penalty - raises the question of how we will deal with similar cases in the future. the political currents in this house can only give one answer: the demand for the abolition of the death penalty. there is no question of making an angel out of öcalan. it is much more a matter of showing that respect for human rights requires much more than empty words, in turkey of course but also elsewhere in the world. our assembly should call on the turkish government to respect the decision of the european court of human rights, because it is incompatible with the execution of öcalan. i read turkish and i am glad that so far i have not been able to note in the turkish newspapers or other media any negative government reaction from ankara. that is one of the things that gives me hope. despite all that has been said today about turkey, it is now important for us to pursue the new policy of the european union towards it. in this sense, we therefore support both reports insofar as they contribute to the democratization of turkey.
- (de) mr president, despite some shortcomings, i could quite easily approve the content of these two reports. the rapporteur has succeeded in presenting with as much clarity as consistency the political requirements of cooperation with turkey, and in particular the need for respect for and development of human rights, including the rights of the kurdish people, the abolition of the death penalty, the strengthening of civil society, the increased participation of non-governmental organisations and the reduction of social discrimination and regional underdevelopment. the fact that these improvements were necessary is a plea against the commission. the fact that they were possible is a credit to the parliamentary committee and to the work of mr morillon. and yet, it will be particularly difficult for me to make a decision. in its proposal the commission argues that turkey has begun a process of democratization and the promotion of human rights and this afternoon mr prodi has found words quite similar. the committee on foreign affairs, on the other hand, is only speaking clearly about the need for such a course, not about a positive development that already exists. this not only seems to me to be much more realistic, but it also corresponds to the estimate made by the commission itself in a communication to the cologne summit on 3 and 4 june. it has even said on two occasions that it does not see any significant improvement in the settlement of the kurdish question and that, in view of the strengthening of the position of the ultra-nationalist mhp party - these are the commission's words - it considers any possibility of future improvement doubtful. i cannot therefore see what our optimism is based on and why the commission is issuing two conflicting estimates. in my view, it should be very clear that there is no real positive development on the issues raised. following the confirmation of öcalan's death sentence, turkish deputy prime minister bahceli, a member of the mhp, said - perhaps this is only in the german newspapers - that europe should not risk any more brazen interference in turkish affairs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very important one. this is in clear contradiction to turkey's commitments as a member of the council of europe. the turkish authorities continue to ignore their international legal obligations in human rights matters. on a strategic level, i believe it is right and necessary for the european union to open up to turkey's accession. the union must make room for it and ensure that it is in its interest to accept turkey and finally declare this without any ambiguity. but in doing so, no concessions can be made to the demands for democratization of the constitution and of political reality, for a fundamental improvement in respect for human rights, for a political solution to the kurdish question and for an end to the occupation of northern cyprus. that's completely out of the question. in the vote tomorrow we should adopt article 3 (2) either in the commission's version or in the foreign affairs committee's version. both versions set out the conditions for suspending cooperation in the event of a major breach of human rights. i see these shortcomings and therefore believe that it would be wrong to adopt these documents at this stage. it would be a mockery of our own document and our own credibility. in these circumstances, my group is therefore in favour of referring both reports back. two weeks ago, we sent a good signal to the russian government in a similar situation. we should do the same in this matter.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the directive under consideration is the second daughter directive drawn up within the framework of the directive on the assessment and management of ambient air quality and the proposal is part of a package of integrated measures to combat air pollution. i think we can all agree that the citizens of europe should breathe cleaner air. in its most recent publication, the european environment agency notes that most cities suffer from air pollution harmful to health and that nearly 40 million people living in europe's 115 largest cities are exposed to at least one harmful substance above the who air quality guidelines. despite policy initiatives to reduce pollution and improve air quality, over the next ten years, the need for transport for people is expected to increase enormously and the number of vehicles to increase by 25%, further worsening our air quality. in a report published this year, who concludes that air pollution from transport causes more deaths than road accidents. the costs to the economy are also high. it is therefore important to reduce the level of air pollution in order to reduce its impact on the most vulnerable groups of the population and to relieve the burden on health systems. the essential element of this second daughter directive is that for the first time limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide are laid down in the eu. this is a very important step, i would even say a step in the legislation on air quality: for the first one, a limit value is defined for a carcinogenic substance, namely benzene, which can cause leukemia. we know that the sources of benzene are petrol and oil and in the european union 80 to 85% of benzene is produced by the combustion of petrol in road traffic. at present, there is no threshold value for the health risks of this substance and therefore no harmless benzene pollution. the principle of prevention enshrined in the ec treaty requires, however, that the threshold value be set at the level of an extremely low risk of disease. the commission has proposed an annual average limit value for benzene of 5 μg/m3, to be reached by 2010. this proposal has the full support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. the commission's proposal provides that in the event of so-called socioeconomic problems, countries could request a transitional period of five years, which could then be extended for a further five years. the committee on the environment expects the directive to be implemented correctly and proposes to limit the derogation to a single five-year period, with the 10 μg value to be respected during this period. other amendments tabled in the plenary make this derogation subject to additional conditions in order to avoid - and this must be very clear - that these regulations become an open door for not implementing this directive. the committee on the environment therefore wants to make it absolutely clear that this cannot be interpreted as a double-edged environmental policy. in the context of enlargement, i think it is essential that we set a good example in this area and do not send a bad signal to the applicant countries. the commission's proposal for a more precise and stricter derogation regulation would make it clear that it is not a question of pursuing an ambiguous environmental policy but rather of achieving a high level of protection for all eu citizens. the commission also proposes that in future public opinion be better informed and that the proposed measures be supplemented by other measures. i think that if we succeed in this, if - let us hope - the commission can agree with our proposals, we will have really taken a step forward in improving air quality and helped to make people understand that carcinogens cannot be dispersed in the environment. we want to improve the quality of europe's air and thus make a major contribution to health protection.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i can say on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats that the proposal for a directive under consideration is a new milestone in european policy on ambient air quality. the framework directive on this subject provides for the development of daughter directives for a number of pollutants. the second daughter directive on the limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air and the related monitoring and reporting obligations was drawn up for this purpose. our amendments are not only aimed at introducing strict environmental protection requirements, but also at formulating these requirements in such a way that they can be implemented and respected by all member states. to achieve this, certain compromises are necessary, particularly with regard to the southern member states. in this respect, the priorities set by the european commission and the subsequent amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are very demanding. the finnish presidency of the council is making a serious effort to use the new legal possibilities offered by the treaty of amsterdam and to bring this proposal, together with the amendments of the european parliament, into force immediately after the first reading. we all know how urgent the problem of reducing emissions of harmful substances is in the context of climate change. mrs breyer has already made it very clear how much this is needed to strengthen the protection of the health of our fellow citizens. that is why i am very pleased with the intention of the finnish presidency. however, this also means that we in the european parliament must take responsibility and create the necessary conditions for this. for this very reason i cannot accept certain amendments which have won a majority in the committee on the environment and which have been tabled mainly by mrs breyer and her group. some of them are superfluous and do not help to improve the text, while others have no place in this proposal for a directive because they do not affect the scope of the directive. we therefore reject a number of amendments. the amendment i tabled on article 3 (2) was adopted by a large majority in the committee. we have added a new addition to this amendment and made it more stringent, in agreement with the advisers, our rapporteur, mrs breyer, and experts. this is amendment no 22 which i ask you all to support. i'd like to thank mrs. breyer. it has tried to reach a consensus, which was not easy, but i think that if we limit ourselves to the essential amendments to improve the commission's proposal - these are mainly amendments nos 1, 5, 7, 10, 11, 15, 16 and 22 - it should be possible to adopt this important directive quickly. i hope and i hope that the commission will support this directive - i expect it to say so in its reply - and that the way will be clear for its implementation as soon as possible.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the epp group and in particular my colleague marlies flemming, who represents the committee on the environment at the wto negotiations and is unfortunately not in a position to speak today. the original commission proposal aims to establish a monitoring system to obtain effective data on co2 emissions from new passenger cars. this proposal is part of the european strategy to reduce co2 emissions and fuel consumption. an agreement with the automotive sector on the reduction of co2 emissions by a set date and on a fuel consumption indicator system to facilitate consumer choice when buying a new individual vehicle are other elements of this strategy. this strategy is certainly relevant because we know that some 50% of all co2 emissions are traffic related but we also have to note that the european union is responsible for about 12% of total emissions, for 88% for the rest of the world. the council of ministers adopted some of the amendments tabled by the european parliament at first reading, which strengthened the commission's original proposal. the amendments relate, for example, to the kyoto protocol, to the importance of data collection for a satisfactory review of the voluntary commitment to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles by 2003, to the european community's commitment to inform the european parliament of the data transmitted by the member states and to supplement the information to be transmitted. we therefore welcome the council's common position. it would be good to adopt this proposal as soon as possible in order to create an effective monitoring system without causing major delays. the decision could then be implemented this year. this would mean that data should be produced as early as the year 2000.
(de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think that three elements of this directive are still controversial and should therefore be discussed. to do this, we should briefly consider why this directive is being put before us. it is not because it is good to collect data - we collect enough - but because we have a voluntary commitment with the car manufacturers. this is the first time we are doing this at european level. we must therefore have instruments to monitor compliance with this commitment. that is the purpose of this directive and that is why this directive must be an appropriate instrument which can be really exploited in terms of surveillance. so there are three points which i think stand out in this directive and in that respect i support the good work of the rapporteur. first, we must make it clear that if the data from monitoring shows that the voluntary commitment is not being respected, a legal solution must follow. there must therefore be a link between surveillance and the legal solution if the figures clearly show that the commitments have not been respected. the directive on this point needs to be completed. secondly, we need clear regulations for the use of this data. it is unacceptable that they should be put in a filing cabinet and put back in a cabinet. in 2002, they should form the basis for the review of voluntary commitment. this review requires an independent database and i think that this too should be clearly stated in the directive. thirdly, the voluntary commitment of the automotive sector - whether european, korean or japanese - is about technical measures to reduce co2 emissions through better engines, lighter vehicles, etc. this too must be controlled. if now co2 consumption is decreasing through a change in buying behavior, and we all suddenly want to buy cars that consume three liters, that's another story. a clear distinction must therefore also be made between technical measures and purchasing behaviour. it is therefore also necessary to incorporate this element into the directive so that this instrument can actually be used as envisaged when this directive was drawn up. let us therefore add these three points to the directive so that we have a really effective instrument for monitoring this voluntary commitment, which would be an experiment for the european union.
(de) mr president, madam commissioner, when we are discussing this subject, the first thing that comes to mind is the proverb that for some people the tree hides the forest. it is clear that the updating of this directive is made necessary by the accession of new member states and the development of the internal market as well as by research in the forestry field. it is appropriate to harmonise the existing classifications in the eu in order to facilitate trade within the union and with oecd countries. however, the directive does not take account of the different needs of the member states. the directive will have long-term negative consequences for nursery operators, according to forestry experts in germany. the control should be limited to forestry enterprises and not to investigate all enterprises, as the document provides, because these requirements would then also affect enterprises that do not produce any forest reproductive material. in my region, the buyers of farms are less and less inclined to engage in forestry. this attitude is based on financial considerations. i would simply like to say in this chamber that i know what i am talking about because in our exploitation, forestry has played a big role for a long time. i would therefore like to stress the threat to german nurseries. i must stress this point in view of the development of forestry in my country, which is tending towards natural regeneration, a massive decline in plant populations and a lack of public resources. it turns out that the control system should be in place by 2003. our specialists tell me that this time frame seems too short to them. the directive is therefore unacceptable because it does not take account of regional differences within the eu. in the nordic countries we have to deal with huge forest areas which have a unique registration number so that the new regulation does not pose any problem for them. i would like to respect my speaking time more or less, but in this debate we should consider that we must not only take into account the nordic perspective, we must not only take into account the passionate view of the alpine admirers, but also perceive that the citizens of the centre of the eu - and also in germany - attach great value to the existence of derogating clauses so that the whole remains really practicable.
president of the committee on budgetary control. - (de) mr president, i will speak on the same subject. the time was clearly running out, and yet the agenda had been pushed back. we knew how it had to be. i am very sorry that it has come to this and that parliament does not seem to be able to approve the report. i would ask you to contact the court of auditors and to put this report on the agenda of the next partsession in strasbourg so that the president of the court of auditors can come and present his report to us. there is no question of leaving the vote to the greek calendar, i simply ask that we do not create an unnecessary interinstitutional incident. it is normal that we receive this report at the end of the year, normally in november. that would have been feasible for this session. i am very sorry that this could not happen.
(de) mr president, the 1995 transition plan has proved its worth. the rapporteur rightly points to the meticulous preparation for the introduction of the euro. we must ensure that the single currency actually enjoys the confidence of citizens and not just the markets where it has become a reality. in the first year after the introduction of the euro, everyday life in the monetary union showed a lack of awareness of this fact by citizens, by consumers. at present, only 1% of all transfers and 4% of all credit card payments are made in euro. this proves that we really need information campaigns. these were not only necessary in the years before the euro, they must take place during monetary union. we cannot leave the responsibility for this to the european central bank alone. the european commission, the european parliament and national governments must take new initiatives so that political debates on the value of the euro do not lead citizens to believe that they are living in a monetary union which has not brought them european added value. on the contrary, they must really feel that they are living in the era of a new monetary reform. this misconception, which is spreading because the exchange rates between the euro, the dollar and the yen have changed differently from what was thought on 4 january, cannot in any way lead to a wrong perception of the value of the euro. the internal value of a currency is decisive and we must note values in the euro area which are really trustworthy. it is good that in the monetary dialogue between the european parliament and the ecb, the importance of price stability is clearly noted by this independent monetary authority and that it ensures that this objective is achieved by remaining close to the citizens. i think it would be wrong to panic because of the rate changes. i think classes are forced. however, it is essential in this situation to defend the euro by supporting political and economic coordination within the european union. monetary policy will not be able to enhance the credibility of european integration for the benefit of growth, employment and investment if the member states do not agree, in parallel with the unification and centralisation of this policy, on measures to combat fiscal and social dumping and to promote employment.
- (de) madam president, mr gallagher, i would like to agree with what you have just said about the working method. something has to change, but i'll start with a cheery note. after the trilogue between the council, the commission and parliament, i was assured yesterday in the committee on budgets that the financing of the important fisheries agreement with morocco would be approved at second reading. a further step has been taken, a solid basis has been laid for the future negotiations. the debate on the fraga report in the committee on fisheries has shown an improvement which will be reinforced next year. the common struggle has united us. it was and is still a question of supplying the european market with fish and of achieving the desired production for export in order to safeguard direct and indirect jobs at sea and on land. we are a community of solidarity and we must remain so. we now have a new parliament, a new commission with new people, with new emphases. the market situation - not only in the light of the wto negotiations - and the new perception of traditional habits by these new people change the content and importance of the subjects discussed in committee. we shall have to discuss this further in the future, when we look at things from other angles. the rapporteur has put forward a well thought-out text. he won a majority in the vote. however, some colleagues were not satisfied with the result. in other words, the debate in committee will now be more acrimonious. the committee on budgets has been asking for this for a long time. no one wants to dissociate themselves from a weakened but essential economic and political branch of the eu. solidarity cannot, however, be one-sided. the questions still open on the cmo report are: how much subsidies and tariffs do fishermen need? does the industry support a global liberalized trading space? can free competition be fair? the grants are self-supporting. but the nets cannot be so tight that the people involved no longer have to make an effort to cope with the law of supply and demand. where do we draw the line between the private economy and the planned economy? the questions are piling up and the eu budget is thin. why should aquaculture be included in financial aid? this is a new market segment in the livestock sector which, through effective management, ensures greater supply stability and planning than fisheries will ever achieve. should not fisheries and the outlets for them be better financed? it is understandable that the member states do not renounce community subsidies in this field. i conclude that the commission's proposal has been strengthened. abstentions and objections must therefore be respected for all these reasons. the debate on the common organization of the market is not yet over.
- (de) madam president, the situation is as described by the commission in its explanatory statement. this proposal on the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products is of great importance for the common fisheries policy of the european union. the general objectives set out in the explanatory statement can be fully endorsed. responsible stock management, improvement of the competitiveness of the sector, market liberalisation, etc.; all of them receive my unreserved approval. the question is, however, how the commission and, above all, the rapporteur, intend to comply with these principles. i would like to return to three points. firstly, i see a problem in the granting of extensive direct subsidies to the fisheries sector compared with the current regulations. no one is against subsidies, but the question must be whether the objective of strengthening the competitiveness of the sector can be achieved in the long term. even a time limit has a knock-on effect and a long-term maintenance cannot be excluded. i think that there is a more appropriate option in the context of structural fund policy. secondly, i fully support the efforts to adapt the external trade regulation. the only question is whether they are enough. the reality is that we are heavily dependent on imports. the granting of exemptions and tariff reductions also affects, in part, the survival of the fish processing industry. thirdly, i cannot follow the rapporteur when she talks about including aquaculture products in the regulation on intervention. despite all the efforts of the rapporteur, who - i say this loud and clear - has done a remarkable job as always in improving the commission's proposal, i can only partially accept his conclusions.
- (de) madam president, i would just like to reassure mr swoboda that there is a european culture. if that were not the case, there would be no europeans and there would be no point in creating a european union. i would like to thank the italian colleagues who have set up this beautiful christmas crib in front of the house and i would ask all our colleagues to come and see this example of european culture.
- (de) madam president, i myself have two protestant children and i never miss christmas. i wanted to tell my colleagues. but i'm not a christian. europe is home to jews, muslims and many people of other faiths. that is why i would like my colleagues to finally accept the reality and the fact that europe is not only made up of christians. i am therefore not a christian and yet i am a member of this house. i hear some speeches and sometimes i wonder where i am. am i not a european then ? i would like my colleague, mr posselt, to answer that question. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - madam president, the seattle conference ended in failure. why would you do that ? i see two reasons for this, one circumstantial and the other substantial. you know the circumstances. first, the conference failed because of lack of time. there was only friday afternoon left, which was too short a time to reach a conclusion in a reasonable time. this is due to the way the conference itself has been conducted, which has only allowed for genuine negotiations during the last two days. there was also, as another circumstantial reason, a clear inability on the part of some delegations to engage in a genuine process of negotiating the agenda and, in this respect, one has to ask whether the coincidence of the opening of the conference with that of the election campaign in the united states was a happy one. it has become clear that the country is not prepared to make any moves on any subject, which by definition makes it difficult for negotiations to succeed. as far as substance is concerned, i believe that the failure of the conference is due to the gap between the ambitions of the world trade organization and its means. the wto procedures have proved ill-suited to the need to integrate at the same time new actors, that is to say a growing number of developing countries, who are demanding their place at the table, and new issues, which are beyond our traditional agendas. you know these new topics: environment, social norms, for example. given the number of actors and subjects and the substantive differences between a number of participants, the chances of reaching an agreement were very slim. if we stop for a moment to consider this fundamental reason, i think we must recognize that the wto no longer has to monitor a negotiation of liberalization between industrialized countries and that this situation has been changed in two ways: firstly, it is no longer possible to limit ourselves to lowering tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade. we must be concerned about the impact of this liberalization on the main parameters of our development models, the fundamental rights of workers, environmental and health protection, cultural diversity, multifunctional agriculture, environmental quality. and then it is no longer possible to confine the negotiations to a few actors, the union and its friends, the united states and the cairns group. in seattle, more than in the past, we had to count on the major partners in the third world, india, brazil, south africa, egypt, the emerging economies, especially in south-east asia, and also our acp partners. tomorrow we will probably have to reckon with china as well. the combination of new subjects and new actors opens up very rich prospects for progress towards a controlled globalisation, but the difficulty of this undertaking is obvious. the union had prepared well for seattle, in terms of the subjects to be discussed, by advocating a broad agenda that met the expectations of civil society, which your parliament, the elected body and legitimate representative of that society, had advocated. as well as extending the negotiations to all partners, including developing countries, the european union also took the initiative of opening the conference with an offer to ensure that the least developed countries have broad access to the markets of the industrialized countries at zero duty. it has managed to rally japan first, and perhaps the united states and canada later, to this initiative. but let us not be deceived and keep our eyes wide open. what middle-income developing countries and emerging economies will demand in return for joining our social, environmental, health, workers' rights agenda is substantial improvements in access to our markets. and seattle has shown that we still have to convince these countries that our concerns, your concerns, are something other than the defense reflexes of a comfort that often appears to them as a privilege. a word about the strategy of the european union in seattle. the community is well placed to build bridges between the positions of the industrialized countries and the developing countries. we have shown this in seattle, where we were well prepared, both in substance and politically, and where we enjoyed what i believe was valuable support from both the council and parliament. we stayed together and at the same time open. from time to time we have moved, if deemed necessary, to move the negotiations forward. this was the case, for example, with the biotechnology group, which i thought it would be useful to accept at a certain point. this has been strongly criticised by some member states and by some members of parliament. i take responsibility for the risk
- (de) mr president, commissioner, it is better to have no result than a bad result. that is the conclusion we too must draw from the failure of the seattle negotiations. let me thank you, commissioner lamy, and the whole commission delegation for the good preparation and the excellent conduct of these negotiations. the commission's dynamic approach, in close cooperation with the european parliament delegation, showed that the commission had laid the foundations for potential success with its overall negotiating strategy. the wto's poor preparation and the tactics of the united states and other states have not, however, led to a happy outcome. we welcome your support for our request for a wto parliamentary assembly, but we also hope that you will give us your practical support vis-à-vis the wto and its officials in implementing it. in this respect, cooperation between the european union, north america, the mercosur area, asean and the acp states should make it possible to organise this parliamentary assembly effectively and in this respect the regional components could play an important role in order to achieve greater efficiency. what should we do in the coming months and perhaps next year? we also believe that the overall negotiating strategy must be maintained and developed further in the coming months. we must engage in and continue dialogue with countries which are still far from our position, including emerging and developing countries. the chances of convincing these countries should be all the greater if we remain consistent. in this context, the following essential elements in the field of trade in goods and services will have to be the focus of our concerns: the further reduction of customs barriers and the dismantling of non-tariff barriers to trade, investment, competition and services, intellectual property, public procurement, electronic commerce. they mark the liberalisation of trade and are a source of benefits for most of our partners in these negotiations. in addition, the reform of the wto is urgent and indispensable. secondly, european environmental and health policy, minimum social standards and development policy should retain their importance in this process. thirdly, in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations, the emphasis will have to be on the multifunctionality of the european agricultural model, namely the further development of rural areas, the production of quality agricultural products and the environment, also taking into account article xx of the wto agreement on agriculture. in the negotiations with china, we should focus on our own interests, which are in partial contradiction with those of the united states. the lowering of china's highest and highest tariffs, the protection of intellectual property and the facilitation of investment are the key elements. in any case, the continuing opening up of markets to the least developed countries - and this is something we must all think about together - should very soon be achieved in the negotiations on the new convention with the acp countries - i do not know whether it is possible to do so unilaterally. derogations of eight to ten years should be granted to these states so that they can gradually move towards the wto regulatory framework without neglecting their sustainable development.
(de) mr president, commissioner lamy, you have very rightly emphasized many points and i thank my colleagues for mentioning how much we are indebted to you for the way you conducted the negotiations in seattle. it was quite elegant and i must say that i have attended many press conferences and attended demonstrations organized by non-governmental organizations. you have set out with the utmost clarity the negotiating position and strategy of the european union. i think you have made it very clear that the european union is not only capable of playing a leading role in this and future cycles of world trade but also that it is not behaving like a poker player determined to impose its interests and that it is ready to take other nations on board - and above all developing and least developed countries. the message has been delivered and i am proud to have been part of the delegation sent to seattle. but we should not be deluded. two things have become clear: firstly, we will continue to face this concentration of interests in international negotiations in the future and i would like to join many leading economists who say that this is just the beginning. we shall see that in the future the clash of national and regional interests will be even stronger than before. it will of course matter that we do not behave - as we saw in seattle and in other contexts - as blocs in conflict - the european union against the united states, the european union and the united states against developing countries, or even developing countries against each other. it will be much more important to play a more judicious and assertive preparatory role in order to clearly establish the common interests we really want to represent in these world trade negotiations and why they are dear to us: namely to tame globalisation, to curb the wild growth that would result from the absence of these rounds of world trade negotiations, to put into practice a smart strategy capable of dealing with world problems. the second thing we noticed, and i think we should not be deluded about it either, is that the interest expressed by civil society in seattle was not only about the global trade cycle but also a protest against everything that is anti-human. it started with the health care system in the united states. i talked to many of the people in the streets. this was the case with china's future participation in the wto, cuba policy and many other issues. in this area, politics is increasingly called upon to explain, and to explain more clearly than it has in the past, what the world trade organization actually does, what its purpose is. of course, it also needs to be reformed and made more transparent, but above all, it needs to be better explained, both in terms of its purpose and its functioning. in this respect, i am particularly pleased that members are now involved - as our colleagues have pointed out. the role we will be given in the world trade cycle as a parliamentary body will not be easy. i think, however, that this is the only way to achieve greater democracy in such a complicated bureaucratic apparatus.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, the failure of seattle is not only due to an agenda that is perhaps too ambitious or overloaded. seattle was a failure because it became clear that the wto, as it is organized, is neither transparent, nor subject to democratic control, nor open to the public. perhaps we should also ask ourselves what the objectives of the wto are. many groups state that the wto is an obstacle to further development of social and environmental standards. the time has come, as we have always demanded, to analyse the impact of the marrakesh round on countries, on the different laws in force in countries and on the possibilities for human development and not just trade. if we consider the agricultural protocol that could have been produced, we can be glad that nothing came out of seattle. because this programme would have put small and mediumsized enterprises in developing countries, in the european union, in a competitive situation with the lowest wages, standards and social conditions. this is precisely what people are concerned about. they no longer want to delegate power permanently to supranational organizations which can no longer be subjected to democratic control. in this year's european elections we saw very clearly that people will not vote if they are no longer able to participate in decisions about the future. it is all the more important that parliament is given full co-management rights and co-decision powers in the field of external economic relations, since the national parliaments have abandoned their competence and control function. the european parliament has not been given this power. we owe it to civil society to put forward this specific demand. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, we have seen the failure of the wto conference in seattle, but not the idea behind it. what have we learned? first, that it is not appropriate to sit in states in the midst of an election campaign. if national views are more important than international agreements, it should not be surprising that those who host a party feel more like outsiders than guests. secondly, it is hardly appropriate to reduce world trade to the concept of equity and not to associate the concepts of equity and social balance. the international community is tired of protectionism, trade barriers and the dictates of a few global players. thirdly, it is appropriate to speak with one voice despite the diversity of the delegations. i wholeheartedly welcome the commission's approach. every morning, mr lamy, the briefings you gave to the members of parliament were marked by openness and a willingness to take our views into account. the result: this time the european union was not sitting among the fishermen but in the chair of the ombudsman. fourthly, it is appropriate to work more closely with ngos. however, they had little to say during the day devoted to them in seattle. i have noticed that few of them were aware of how close europe was to them. protection of the environment, animals, health and consumers. the dialogue was broken before it could begin. the protests have paralyzed the conference. what started as a happy happening ended in a state of siege, accompanied by a high degree of aggression and violence. fifthly, it is appropriate to address the controversial issues. today's taboos may prove to be acceptable compromises tomorrow. however, the topics should be dealt with in a sensitive manner. the statement by the president of the united states, threatening possible sanctions for failure to apply the imposed labour standards, did little to help the negotiations. it is not by chance but in a well-orchestrated way that it has come to our ears as participants in the negotiations. however, the proposal to establish a permanent forum of the wto and the ilo and those on fundamental rights and social market economy rules could have a majority. beyond seattle, all hope is lost.
- (de) mr president, i will not join in the praise of mr lamy for fear that he will blush. i think he knows that this house is grateful to him for the role he has played and the way he has integrated the european parliament delegation. let me deal instead with the consequences of the failure of the ministerial conference. what conclusions can be drawn from this for the future? one thing is certain, whether there is a new ministerial conference or whether we have to proceed step by step, we must never again accept the opening of a cycle of work unless there is a clear agenda, adopted by common agreement. that certainly must be one of the consequences. if we continue to work on the basis of article 20 of the wto agreement on agriculture alone, what should we do? i think it is quite clear: article 20 of the wto agreement on agriculture states, among other things, that non-trade concerns must also be taken into account. the precautionary principle must therefore be constantly on the agenda at every stage, in every negotiation, and repeated like a tibetan prayer. all the speakers are talking about consumer protection, the precautionary principle and environmental policy. we need to be clear. and we must also be clear that environmental standards and food safety are often contested concepts in this house, that we achieve them within the european union only with difficulty, that the legislation is controversial and that we have established it because of our responsibility to the citizens of the european union to whom we are indebted as elected parliamentarians and not because of tactical protectionism. we must also make this clear. it should now be quite clear that extensions of isolated parts of the wto rules or a comprehensive revision of them will only be possible if this institution finally becomes democratic, transparent and less authoritarian. perhaps the failure of this first wto ministerial conference is a good thing because the arrogance and lack of democracy are becoming clear and we now have the chance to remedy this. it's the right time.
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank all of you who have supported me, both during the conference and today. i am particularly sensitive to this because i think it is a method and a style of work rather than a personality, and that it is this method of work that will be useful to us in the future. in any case, i conclude that this is the direction we must continue in. i shall now make a few observations on the substance. first, as many of you have said, it is probably among the developing countries that the failure of seattle has caused the most disappointment. if we accept this fact - which i believe is now proved with a week's delay - it is when trade liberalization is decided, steered, controlled that the developing countries perceive its interest for them, and doubtless consider it better for them than a status quo in which the development of bilateral relations does not play in their favour. i think that's worth thinking about for the future, and at least between us. my second comment concerns the institutional affairs of the wto. i am not one of those who think that this is the main problem. i think that is part of the problem. we're not reinventing the wheel, but what good is the wheel when it stops turning? at least let's get this wheel to turn, or the load it carries to be reworked. i think that is what is at stake, while recognising - and i believe the commission does - the extreme difficulties that will arise in getting 135 contracting parties to agree on an institutional system other than the one that currently exists. a third observation concerns the environment. i listened and heard what you said. let us simply be aware that our ambitions in this area are considerable compared with those of the other partners around the wto table. the fact that developing countries have a less ambitious environmental agenda than ours will make it clear why. the fact that the united states - and it does - has a less ambitious environmental agenda than ours certainly poses a more difficult problem for us, because if we have neither the developing countries nor the americans on our agenda, then we will have a very difficult time getting it forward. i think that's worth thinking about. i stand by our creed and the council's conclusions, as well as the mandate i have received. however, we must be aware that this will not be easy and that at some point we will need to be more convincing or more active. this brings me to my fourth and penultimate observation. i think, as many of you do, that it is now up to the developing countries to direct our efforts to persuade them and to build alliances. this requires persuasion, political work, argumentation and perhaps some additional efforts which will have to be considered. i am not able to give a good picture of the situation at the moment, but it is certain that these additional efforts will have to be directed towards opening up our markets to these developing countries. i think it is useless to talk about it for long if we are not a little more specific, but i also know that if we are a little more specific we are faced with enormous difficulties. we must think about this and, in due course, put forward some proposals to the council and parliament on this point. finally, i would like to raise the issue of transparency. yes, seattle was a transparency event. we can think long and hard about whether there is always a coincidence between extreme media concentration - as in seattle - and an exercise in transparency. i must say that, on a personal level, i sometimes have some doubts and a little concern about this coincidence, which we too often try to recognize, between a massive media presence and an exercise in transparency. let's put that aside. nevertheless, the wto was subjected to a test of transparency in seattle, for which it was clearly not prepared. from this point of view, it's all the better. what we have to say about liberalisation, about globalisation, about how we see it, and whether or not it is good for the citizens you represent and to whom we are accountable, well, that's all the better. i am glad that this debate can take place in the open. i think, as some of you have said, that europe has an interest in this debate because, as far as it is concerned and in this area, it is used to it: it is as much a matter of taking advantage of others. (applause from the left)
court of auditors - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present to you today the annual report of the court of auditors for the financial year 1998, one of the fundamental elements of the discharge procedure. the discharge for 1998 is being given in a very different context to that of last year. our institutions have been both actors and witnesses to the major events that have taken place on the european stage. for the first time in history, the commission resigned during its term of office and, for the first time, political attention was focused on the management and control of european funds. the european union is suffering from a fundamental problem linked to a period of growth. the structure of the commission has not kept pace with the ever-growing number of community policies and funds which need to be implemented. the reports of the committee of independent experts make it clear that the commission's organisation, staff policy and procedures have become obsolete and do not allow for the production of policies characterised by a high degree of efficiency and accountability. this gap leads to weaknesses in financial management and control, weaknesses which the court of auditors has repeatedly pointed out. i think there is general agreement on these observations. the crucial corollary, in my view, is that all the european institutions and the member states must share responsibility for this situation and we must therefore work hand in hand to improve it. to this end - and this is part of its contribution - the court of auditors sent a letter to president prodi on 15 july this year, when he was still president-designate. it drew his attention to these basic improvements which were considered by the members of the court of auditors to be the most essential. this includes developing methods for assessing the effectiveness of policies, strengthening control structures, establishing simple and more coherent financial and accounting regulations and, finally, managing staff more effectively. the reports and special opinions adopted by the court of auditors during the year in the 1998 annual report submitted to parliament provide further evidence to support this analysis. as you have seen, the report now before us contains the insurance declaration for 1998. in response to parliament's requests, the court of auditors has extended its work to the declaration of assurance. it now provides additional information by revenue and expenditure sectors in each chapter, which will enhance the usefulness of the report in assessing the situation in each area. the general conclusions of the 1998 insurance statement are not fundamentally different from those of the previous year. firstly, the court of auditors considers that, overall, the reliability of the accounts reflects the community's position at the end of the year as regards its revenue, expenditure and financial position, with some reservations, however, relating to the omission of claims and potential debts, the overestimation of commitments still to be settled and the presentation of advances as final payments. secondly, the court of auditors is giving an increasingly unfavourable opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the commission's payments. the audit revealed a significant level of error affecting the amount of payments made or the eligibility of the operations financed. the audit also revealed other breaches of the regulations. although these have no direct influence on the amount of transactions, they often highlight a problem with the correct implementation of control procedures. the court of auditors audited the final recipients of the grants and thus discovered a significant number of errors. this shows that not only the commission but also the member states still have difficulties in administering and managing community programmes. the commission and the member states have now started to reform the major spending areas, including agriculture, the structural funds and the phare programme. the achievement of real progress will depend on the extent of fundamental changes to member states' systems and also, in many cases, to certain council regulations. the annual report contains comments on the sixth, seventh and eighth european development funds. these are currently separated and accompanied by a separate declaration. the audit revealed some problems with respect to the edf regulations, as well as errors in the amount of payments made. apart from these points, the court of auditors nevertheless considers that the accounts of the european development fund are reliable and that the transactions relating to them are legal and regular. in these circumstances, in most areas of expenditure, the court of auditors has identified poorly defined policies and programmes which cannot be properly evaluated, making it impossible to estimate precisely the resources needed. the results are therefore not very convincing and the result is a waste of funds. in our special report no 2/99 on the impact of the reform of the community's agricultural policy on the cereals sector, the court of auditors noted that there is no evidence that the reduction in institutional prices has benefited consumers to any great extent or that the reform has improved the conditions of small farmers. policies and programmes lack clear and measurable objectives in terms of costs and returns, so it is impossible to see how much the desired objectives have been achieved and whether the money has been spent. the main indicator used to measure financial performance is the extent to which the appropriations allocated under the budget have been used and not the efficiency with which they have been spent. this confirms the persistence of the spending culture within the community, which is much more concerned with the volume of expenditure than with its quality. i would stress that these remarks concern the community as a whole. at the same time, evaluations are not conducted in a consistent manner and rarely lead to concrete corrective action. this is the case, for example, with medium-term evaluations of structural measures: the methodological framework remains inadequate and we lack appropriate indicators. the commission must ensure that a proper link is established between the results of evaluations and programming. the 1998 annual report again reveals weaknesses in the three levels of community financial control: the commission, the member states' systems, and the commission's supervision of these systems. the commission's internal control has not prevented the problems of mismanagement and irregularities which have recently been brought to light. at the same time, several bodies are responsible for internal audit, which shows a lack of coordination. the court's audit of the 1998 accounts revealed cases where weaknesses in internal control led to ineligible costs being financed by the commission, excessive payments, outdated contracts or a lack of supporting documents. these factors affected the court of auditors' statement of assurance, particularly in the field of internal policies. we cannot rely on the control systems of the member states to prevent errors.
president of the committee on budgetary control. (de) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking mr karlsson for his presentation of the 1998 annual report. after being alarmed by premature press releases, members of the european parliament were able to make a first examination of this exhaustive report of almost 500 pages. we were not aware of the court of auditors' report and could neither confirm nor deny this information. the question of the court of auditors' timely information of the european parliament must be dealt with swiftly by both institutions. mr president, i am sure you agree with this and are concerned that parliament, as the representative of the people and the supervisory body, should be informed before any of the results of the court's examination reach the press. i also refer to the report by mr wynn, which was adopted by the european parliament in the spring of 1998. i have since learned that the court has discovered the department from which the report, and perhaps the draft confidential report, was sent. a suspension has been issued. in this respect, the pressure exerted by the european parliament to shed light on permeable services has borne fruit. the report presented will not only serve as a basis for future work on the 1998 discharge, but will also be an important reference document for the reform of the commission's administrative structures and can be used constructively to make the necessary improvements. as a parliament we now have the opportunity to support in a constructive but also critical way the important process of reforming the commission. the court again criticises the unacceptable number of errors found in the implementation of the 1998 budget. it refuses to confirm the legality and regularity of the commission's figures and, in so doing, refuses for the fifth consecutive year to make an assurance statement. this is very, very serious. the report again shows that there is mismanagement, irregularities and fraud in almost all the areas studied, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. each year, the withholding of customs duties and vat revenue causes significant losses for the community budget. in this respect, very serious shortcomings in the member states' administration and control systems should be noted. we wonder when the commission will finally hold the member states to account. do they not realise that by reducing resources they are hurting themselves? the situation in agriculture remains uncertain. in terms of the amounts involved, this is the area where the main irregularities are found in relation to the funds used fraudulently. here again, the court points to the negligence of the member states. in the important area of research and development, losses resulted from mismanagement and lack of transparency between the payment of advances and the liquidation. more than 50% of expenditure is irregular, with a third of it even showing serious errors. this also applies to the structural funds. let us get down to work with the court of auditors and the commission. this is an absolute necessity in view of enlargement. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, i do not wish to confine myself to the outcome of the conciliation committee, because that would be to skip the steps. i think we should use this second reading to talk very generally about education in the europe of the future. at the end of my speech, i shall return to the outcome of the conciliation. the question of education in the europe of the future is identical with the question of the future of europe itself. the members of the council should be aware of this. the unification of europe can only succeed if european citizens accept this process and are willing to participate in it. this is a very important aspect in view of the planned enlargement of the eu. we are focusing on the younger generation in our countries. it is the eu that will complete the construction of the future of europe. this is why we must rally young people to the cause of europe. we have to go and get them where they are already today, with their expectations. many of them think much more globally and have accumulated more personal experiences abroad than we have in our younger years. but many others have not had these personal experiences and are afraid, like their parents, of this greater europe, because they do not understand it, they who have never had the chance to experience this cross-border agreement. this is why i believe that european education policy is one of the main tasks of the european union. communication and therefore the mastery of foreign languages will become increasingly important as the interpenetration of areas of european societies increases. the economic interdependence resulting from the internal market will make mobility the central theme. these interpenetrations inevitably force us to confront different opinions. the pluralism of cultures and worldviews, however, increasingly requires mutual understanding and therefore knowledge of each other and exchanges of information. we need to start passing on all this knowledge and experience early on. this is how socrates, the first large-scale european programme for collaboration in all areas of education, was born in 1995. i have been rapporteur since then and i am glad that this programme has already borne such fruit. we now present the socrates ii programme for the years 2000 to 2007. this programme includes the comenius action, where schools are encouraged to collaborate on school projects across europe and beyond. the second is erasmus, which concerns student mobility, and the third is gruntvig, adult education, which has finally achieved something that has been needed for a long time in the european union. adult education was introduced into the socrates i programme in 1995 by means of an amendment which i introduced. secondly, during the year, the demand for adult education and lifelong learning has increased, so we can say that the gruntvig component in socrates is the right answer. i'm proud that we've made it. this inclusion of gruntvig in the socrates programme shows precisely how europe works. in austria, the scandinavian countries, germany and england too, the subject of adult education has always been on the agenda and is an idea that was already rooted in the nordic countries, while it was not so rooted in the southern countries. we have managed to implant it all over europe. i'm proud of that. that is why i believe that we have also achieved something important for the next seven years. i now come to the subject which concerns us all, namely the outcome of the conciliation committee. basically, we got everything we planned. i am very pleased that the council has agreed that we should consider the possibility of granting mobility grants only to those who really need them, so that those who are in financial difficulty can still participate, thanks to the money put at their disposal. i also welcome the fact that the council has approved the increased promotion of the learning of the language of the neighbouring country. i very much regret that the council was not able to include the theme 'european education area'. he has been hesitant and used false pretexts to claim that the european education area does not yet exist. it exists, but we have finally given in to it in order to have peace and to preserve the european dimension of education. as regards the volume of funding, mr president, you were there and i must say that i am not happy. we wanted 2.5 billion for this large-scale mission. unfortunately, we only got 1.85 billion, but with a clause for revision after two years. i think we can consider ourselves happy. i hope that this programme will be as successful as socrates i. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, the record of the socrates programme is indeed impressive. 500 000 students have completed part of their studies in another member state. 110,000 young people took part in exchanges. in total, 1500 universities and over 10 000 schools in the european union have participated in the programme over the past four years. parliament and the commission wanted to link the years 2000 to 2007 to this success. the younger generation should have the chance not only to maintain but also to increase its commitment to europe. but it is above all young people in the candidate countries who should have the same opportunities to participate in the new programme from the outset. it is hard to understand why the council, which showed such commitment a few days ago in helsinki, has refused to give the young people of europe the financial means which we in the conciliation committee consider necessary. i therefore thank the rapporteur, mrs pack, and commissioner reding in particular for having extracted €300 million from the council through the conciliation committee. i think the council can be sure that the commission and parliament will continue to fight for young people in this way in the coming years, in order to obtain sufficient funds.
- (de) mr president, we have read it in the newspapers and we have seen it in the committee on fisheries: it is about cod fishing in the north-east atlantic and, on this occasion, about a bilateral agreement between russia and norway, two states which, like other states such as the european union, iceland and poland, are contracting parties with equal rights in the north-east atlantic fisheries commission. all the states of this commission, including russia and norway, have committed themselves not only to multilateral cooperation but also to common obedience. it is also based on the consideration of technical data, recommended by the international council for the exploration of the sea, the scientific part, and now russia and norway want to break the commitment and possibly catch three to four times the amount recommended by scientists. this is an incredible case ! whenever there has been abuse of resources within the eu, we have always admired the norwegians and their management of fisheries, but now we see that the norwegians do not perform miracles either. that is why mr busk's report is so important. this is a significant legal act in order to achieve a coherent and sustainable system of control by all the contracting parties in the above-mentioned areas. the experiences of the north-east and north-west atlantic fisheries committees need to be transposed into eu law. the eu can be a forerunner in this area. is she ? can she be a driving force? it would allow him to sell himself better and sell his policy better. i agree with commissioner fischler, who calls for a better marketing strategy in the fisheries sector. control measures at eu and member state level need to be harmonised. we have to stop blaming other people for everything.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report by our colleague mr palacio is a good and thorough work. we can approve it, put it aside and everything will take its course. so, the routine? not for me ! the report puts the spotlight on a subject which was discussed and closed by the european parliament during the last electoral period. i am talking about the uniform voting rights in europe. do you remember the anastassopoulos report, which laid the foundations for the election of members of the european parliament on the same basis in all the member states? the new mps will have to do some research. for long-term members, this is probably what comes to mind. this is not surprising, since it is rather routine to talk about the democratic foundations of the european union. or am i wrong in thinking that the best decisions of the directly elected parliament of all the peoples of europe are too often devalued? they are often victims of the inaction of the council or the governments of the member states. this is also what happened to the anastassopoulos report and the uniform voting right. parliament has approved it. but unfortunately there is no sign of entry into force. i think it's a disaster. in view of the growth of the european union, citizens expect a consolidation of the democratic base. the uniform voting right and all the possibilities we have considered are part of this. with the approval of the palacio report, let us hope that this report will be based on a uniform voting right after the next european elections. this would make our work easier and would contribute greatly to bringing about more democracy and transparency in our european union.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, what seems extremely technical in your announcement is in fact a significant improvement in the protection of victims of road accidents in a different country. i say this because we are apparently no longer able to talk to people in a way that they understand what it is about. we can be proud of this directive. this is a joint effort by the european parliament, which took the initiative, and the commission, which significantly improved on the original parliament proposal by introducing the compensation body. but we can also thank the council for accepting the proposal in its basic points. as regards the recommendations for second reading, i would like to focus on two points. most of the amendments concern wording, the legal text itself. the council's common position contains passages which are simply incomprehensible. i'm even convinced that the authors don't know what they're writing. i would like to remind the commission and the council of a very fine phrase of a german jurist from the last century. he said that the legislator should think like a philosopher and speak like a farmer, simply and clearly, so that everyone can understand. the art of compromise often has consequences for legislation, which can no longer respect the principle of simplicity and clarity. however, there is one specific problem on which the european parliament does not share the view of the commission and the council. i would remind the commission and the council that we have the support of practice on this point, the support of the insurers in question - which is also true of the whole of the directive. we also have the support of the automobile industry, we have the support of the associations of accident victims. only the commission and the council are not yet in favour of this. what is it ? this directive should also apply when the accident does not take place in an eu member state but in a third country. there is absolutely no reason not to apply the directive in this case. let's say a frenchman and an italian get into an accident in switzerland. why should the directive not apply in this case? why would you do that ? the insurers shake their heads and say there's no problem. only one british insurance company disagrees. but all the other girls say , " why not ? " with this directive we are not changing anything at all in the law, we are not changing anything in the courts, we are not changing anything in the legal procedures. the only difference is that in the example above, the french victim does not have to go directly to the italian insurance company in italy, but to the representatives of the italian insurance company in france. this is the case regardless of the third country where the accident occurred, here in switzerland. this directive does not change anything about the other procedures, in case the parties do not agree. it merely improves the pre-litigation settlement of the dispute, not the judicial settlement. that is why i ask you, commissioner. there were obviously vested interests at stake. the commission even stated in a trilogue that european insurers would be against my solution. that is not true, they are in favour of this solution. i therefore recommend, commissioner, that the commission should review its position. she's not defendable. i assume that the council will also accept this solution if necessary. i would like to stress once again that this proposal was not conceived on paper. this proposal was the result of countless discussions with all parties involved. that is why i believe it is useful, because those who have experienced it in practice say that it works, it works wonderfully well, and that is what we want too. normally, the commission will hear the parties concerned. so ask the circles concerned and you will find that they approve the solution proposed by the european parliament. there is therefore no reason to limit the application of the directive. it would only harm the victims. we must not forget it ! we want to improve the protection of victims of accidents. i therefore urge that we all think about this matter once again in the pending conciliation procedure.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with my predecessor on the main points. we have here a good example of a europe which is close to its citizens. i would like to make it very clear that the implementation of this directive will ultimately bring direct and tangible benefits for all european citizens and therefore not - as is often the case with other legislation - indirect or less obvious benefits. it is very likely that every european citizen has faced this problem at least once in his or her life somewhere in the european union and then recognizes the benefits. i think that too should be stated explicitly. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr willi rothley, for the excellent preparation of this report and for the initiative taken by parliament at the time, and the commission and the council for their agreement in principle. however, i do not understand at all why the problem which has already been raised here still exists, because until today i have not heard any valid argument to prevent the application of the directive to accidents involving european citizens outside the eu. there is no justification for this to this day. there is only bad information, which was also highlighted in the last debate in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the position of insurance companies. i would simply ask the commission and the council to make an effort on their own and to follow parliament's advice. as the trilogue has produced no results in the preliminary discussion, we have no choice but to keep our amendments reasonable for the time being and adopt them here at second reading. this will give the council and the commission the opportunity to be more astute in the conciliation procedure. they should take advantage of that.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course have been happy to have had the commissioner responsible for transport policy present, but that is not possible. what are we talking about ? today we are not talking about transport policy, but about the worst thing in a market economy, namely quotas. how can we allocate what switzerland has given us with indulgence, because the former transport commissioner clumsily negotiated with the swiss transport minister, how can we allocate among the member states what has been agreed here? we must be aware of this, that is the subject in question. what the commission has presented here is somewhat shameful. i want to make this very clear. why do we need basic troops ? do we really want to repeat what we have been going through for milk for over ten years, create benefits in nature? i can already hear the neighbouring countries rejoicing at the prospect of trading in quotas. no, it can't happen like that! the quotas belong to the european union and must be returned to it. only the european union has the right to reallocate them. let us leave them where they are, that is to say, where the transport of goods actually takes place, rather than scattering them all over the member states and then painstakingly gathering them and redistributing them. we should realize that this is not a wise strategy. i would also like to say very clearly that the rapporteur has done a very good job overall, for which i would also like to thank him. but i would have been happy if, in view of the close vote we had in committee - it was by one vote - the rapporteur and his group had been a little more conciliatory here, because - i say it very clearly today - if we vote on wednesday and our amendment no 7, which reduces the basic quotas to 500, is not passed, we will vote against the whole report. i would also say that if our group, the epp, had not abstained from voting in committee, we would not be having a debate today. there was a majority against the report. i would therefore ask you to be ready to negotiate, not to be narrow-minded or closed to discussion. this is not in the interests of those who have to transport goods into or through switzerland, nor in the interests of the neighbouring countries. when i consider that 30% of the brenner traffic is due to bypassing switzerland, we must use quotas to revalue the shortest route, rather than taxing the peripheral countries beyond all statistics. i therefore ask you to use the time we have until noon on wednesday to reach a compromise. i have abandoned the hard line of the committee and adopted a conciliatory attitude and i would be glad if the other party did the same, otherwise we will vote against.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, higher levels of ozone and uv radiation have become risk factors for our common living space. i agree with the rapporteur that the impact has become visible. maintaining the ozone layer is one of the priority objectives of our environmental policy. we all have a responsibility to prevent pollutants from harming people, animals and the whole ecosystem. this is why substances which destroy the ozone layer must be replaced as quickly as possible by alternative substances. however, realistic transition times for switching to substitute products are needed. he insists on the term 'realistic'. in areas where substitutes with the same function are clearly available, the procedure must be applied within the specified time limits. there are, however, exceptions to this rule and we must deal with them without any ambiguity. in industrial chemistry, certain refrigeration facilities are essential for chemical production. these refrigeration plants are in themselves closed systems, the refrigerants for which do not yet have any concrete substitutes. it is necessary to allow for exceptional regulations, also due to the size and complexity of closed refrigeration systems. that is why i have introduced amendment no 30 in the report and i ask you to consider it. these refrigeration systems, i repeat, are included in closed systems, so that the refrigerant does not pass into our atmosphere.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner liikanen, there are indeed many questions about this regulation. but we welcome the fact that something has finally happened. it is regrettable, however, that the commission acted only under pressure from the austrian government and has only been presenting draft projects for years. what about the new food regulations, for example? how can you, commissioner, support the commission's new slogan of greater transparency when, for example, more than 80% of soybean production is used for animal feed? i would like you to tell us tonight whether you are prepared to vote in favour of a moratorium until there is a regulation on new foods. because everything else is just a catcher in the rye and leads our consumers to be able to buy almost genetically modified food without knowing it. i would have liked you to tell us tonight how long this tactic of submitting to pressure from the agri-food industry will last or whether you are finally implementing what mr prodi has promised, namely more transparency for consumers. in addition, as you know, we believe that 1% is also far too high. this rate should at least be divided by two, as this can be obtained analytically. if we assume that these are unintentional pollutions, then you must explain to us, mr liikanen, how in a ship laden with soya 3000 tonnes, or 1%, were unintentionally contaminated! i think it's nothing, but then it's nothing. we expect you to put into practice what we have already said in committee, namely to take parliament's vote into account and finally to convene everyone at a round table and formulate a new proposal for a threshold rate as soon as possible. secondly, i expect you to explain clearly to us tonight how long the commission's delaying manoeuvre on the novel food regulation will continue and whether you think it is appropriate to support this proposal to declare a moratorium, as the council of ministers has also said in roughly the same way, so that consumers can finally see clearly. i think that is the only way to clarify things a little.
chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. - (de) madam president, the committee on agriculture and rural development recommends that a decision be taken as a matter of urgency. first of all, this is an urgent matter. it must be put to the vote again this year. on the other hand, we agree on the objectives. the vast majority of the committee on agriculture and rural development are convinced that a total ban on the use of bst is appropriate as from this year.
- (de) madam president, we have discussed this in the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. we do not see the urgency of this and we would like to produce a report which develops this pre-accession strategy and expresses the european parliament's position on this matter. we therefore oppose the council's request for urgency.
president of the council. - (fi) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to discuss with the european parliament the most important events of the finnish presidency, immediately after the helsinki european council. i shall begin by giving an overview of the main achievements of the finnish presidency, focusing in particular on the conclusions of the helsinki european council. in accordance with parliament's wishes, i will also present the president's views on the situation in chechnya and discuss the main results of the osce summit in istanbul in november. i should like to thank the president of parliament, mrs fontaine, very much for the views of parliament which she presented at the beginning of the european council. the conversation we had was fruitful. i would like to express our sincere thanks to the european parliament, both on behalf of the finnish government and on behalf of the council, for the good and constructive cooperation. the first decision of the helsinki european council was the adoption of the millennium declaration at its meeting on friday morning. this declaration sets out the values on which the european union is founded, as well as the challenges and objectives facing us at the beginning of the new millennium. i would like to stress in this declaration only what is a necessary condition for meeting the challenges of the new millennium: only a transparent, democratic and effective union can fulfil these commitments. the first european council meeting focused on the enlargement of the union. these decisions are historic from the european point of view, because the new phase of the enlargement process which began in helsinki will lead to the enlargement of the union to 13 new states. it was decided in helsinki to open accession negotiations with latvia, lithuania, bulgaria, romania, slovakia and malta. there was virtually unanimity on this subject at the tampere european council, so there was no need for any discussion. intergovernmental conferences to start negotiations with the six countries will begin in february. it was confirmed in this respect that each candidate country would progress towards membership on the basis of its own possibilities. no deadline has been set for accession. the union, on the other hand, has set itself the objective of being able to welcome new member states from the end of 2002. this is necessary in order to complete the work of the intergovernmental conference and to enable the amendments to the treaty to be ratified in all the member states. in discussing the question of enlargement, the european council attached importance, inter alia, to the great importance of nuclear safety in central and eastern europe. the european council welcomed the opening of negotiations on a settlement of the cyprus question in new york on 3 december and stressed that a political settlement would facilitate cyprus's accession to the european union. at the same time, the council notes that the settlement of the cyprus question is not a precondition for cyprus' accession to the european union. the decision taken by the european council on turkey's position as a candidate country can, in my view, be regarded as historic. the community's decision made possible the courageous and constructive action of the greek prime minister, mr costas simitis, while the president laid down the conditions for a favourable decision. the european council accepted the conclusions on turkey and intensive explanatory discussions were then launched with turkey. relations were completed by the letter i addressed, in my capacity as president, to the turkish prime minister, mr bülent ecevit. the european council also sent a delegation to ankara, including a representative of the finnish presidency, the secretary-general and high representative javier solana, and günter verheugen, the european commissioner responsible for enlargement. the delegation explained verbally to the government the content of the helsinki conclusions. the helsinki conclusions enabled turkey to participate, along with the other candidate countries, in the lunch of the union's heads of state or government at the european council in helsinki. i would like to stress that prime minister bülent ecevit clearly confirmed in helsinki turkey's commitment to continue its reforms in order to meet the copenhagen criteria. in the helsinki conclusions, turkey is considered as the other candidate countries. the opening of accession negotiations is not possible until turkey meets the political criteria of copenhagen. the biggest problems are the internal conditions in turkey, the dysfunction of the democratic system and the violations of human rights, including those of minorities. a preparatory and orientation phase will open with turkey in a process which will examine the country's progress towards compliance with union law. the political dialogue with turkey will in particular highlight progress on the human rights issue. in the helsinki conclusions, the applicant countries are invited to settle possible border disputes and other similar issues. if they fail to do so, they should, within a reasonable time, refer the dispute to the international court of justice. the european council will, by the end of 2004 at the latest, take stock of the situation with regard to any remaining disputes, in particular as regards their implications for the accession process, and to promote their settlement through the international court of justice. the conclusions recognise turkey's position as a candidate country and underline the importance of intensifying the dialogue between the union and turkey for regional stability and the conclusion of the cyprus question. in inviting turkey to ever closer cooperation, the union is acting in accordance with its fundamental mission of strengthening peace and promoting respect for human rights. madam president, the council is deeply concerned about the events in chechnya. in order to persuade russia to seek a political solution, the european council adopted a separate declaration on the situation in chechnya and its consequences for relations between the european union and russia. only a political solution can end the chechen crisis. russia's efforts to find a political solution have so far been insufficient. in these circumstances, the political pressure of the european union and the international community must continue. the declaration adopted condemns the bombing, the ultimatum to the people of grozny and the treatment of internally displaced persons. the territorial integrity of russia is not in question, nor is its right to fight terrorism. however, russia's actions are contrary to the fundamental principles of international humanitarian law and violate the commitments russia has undertaken as a member of the osce and a member of the council of europe. there is a danger that the crisis will spread to the whole region and there are risks in particular for the territorial integrity of georgia. the european council concluded that the situation affects the implementation of the union's common strategy towards russia and that this strategy should be reviewed. discussions on this matter will begin as early as this week. the declaration adopted on saturday was notified to the russian authorities in helsinki on the same day by a letter from the presidency of the council and the high representative. the european council considered that the application of certain parts of the partnership and cooperation agreement should be suspended and the trade provisions strictly applied. the president asked the legal departments of the commission and the council to explain the legal aspects of this matter in a working party later this week. the commission has the right of initiative in this and the matter will ultimately be resolved in the council. it's not possible to go any further this year. once the union has taken an internal decision, the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement will be followed. it was also decided in helsinki to request a transfer of funds from the tacis programme to humanitarian aid. but this should only concern russia. the tacis programme is intended for the cis area and the union has no reason to review its cooperation with the other cis countries and mongolia. i would also like to say that the union must not undermine the long-term cooperation we are pursuing. our aid to russia must be developed in a democratic and firm manner. otherwise, this would be contrary to the union's own interest. the european council underlined this by considering it necessary to pursue projects concerning human rights, the rule of law, support for civil society and nuclear safety. the european council also calls, in accordance with the union's common strategy towards russia, for the osce and the council of europe to review, each in its respective sphere of competence, the modalities of their cooperation with russia. the visit of the osce chairman-in-office to the region this week, that is to say now, will show whether there have been changes in russia's attitude. we must pay particular attention to this visit and its results. the council of europe will have to determine whether activities in relation to russia on human rights and civil society can be strengthened. the aim is not to exclude russia from the activities of the council of europe. i do not think it is in russia's interest to isolate itself from europe and the rest of the world, especially if we look a little further into the future, beyond the russian elections. let us hope that realism will soon take over moscow. the isolation of russia is not in the interests of the european union, or of anyone else in europe. madam president, the european council has adopted the presidency's report on the intergovernmental conference. the work of the intergovernmental conference will begin in february and is expected to be completed in december 2000. the agenda includes the questions which were left unanswered in amsterdam, namely the size and composition of the commission, the weighting of votes in the council, the possible extension of qualified majority voting in the council, and other points relating to the european institutions in connection with the abovementioned questions. the next presidency will be held by portugal, which will report to the european council on the progress of the conference and may propose other items for inclusion on its agenda. the general affairs council will have overall political responsibility for the igc. the preparatory work will be carried out by a group of representatives of the governments of the member states, one representative per member state. the commission will have a representative at the political and preparatory levels. we expect good cooperation with parliament in the preparation of the reforms. the european parliament's position will be strengthened, compared with the previous intergovernmental conference, by the fact that two parliament observers will attend the meetings of the preparatory group. each ministerial meeting will be preceded by an exchange of views with the president of the european parliament, as was the case in the past. ladies and gentlemen, the european council also discussed the development of a common european policy on security and defence and, in particular, crisis management. it was based on the presidency reports on the development of the union's military and non-military means of crisis management. the european council conclusions recall that the current process does not involve the creation of a european army. in helsinki a common objective was agreed on the military capabilities to be made available rapidly for the so-called petersberg missions. the union will rapidly develop collective reserves for command and control, intelligence and strategic transport. in developing civilian crisis management resources, there is a particular urgency to improve police capacity and rapid funding measures. the presidency's conclusions indicate that, as regards the document now adopted, the first report on the development of the situation will be presented to the lisbon european council. it is to be welcomed that, during our presidency, the member states have shown their readiness to make rapid progress in improving the union's capacity to manage crises. the european council welcomed the fact that the economic recovery in the union had intensified and was gaining ground. this recovery is based on sound economic fundamentals: favourable investment conditions, low inflation and an improved state of public finances. the introduction of the euro has further strengthened this positive trend. the challenges we face are the demographic changes and increased competition brought about by globalisation and the resulting need to strengthen innovation and structural reform. the european council noted that the coordination of economic, employment and structural policies should be strengthened, in accordance with the report drawn up by the council. the emphasis will need to be on the effective implementation and streamlining of existing processes and arrangements. the broad economic policy guidelines provide the framework within which broad objectives and guidelines are defined. the extraordinary european council meeting in lisbon in march will provide an opportunity to develop these issues. i think this meeting could be very important. as everyone knows - and the president of the commission referred to this in his speech - certain points were not reached in helsinki. the tax package failed to win unanimous support. the taxation conclusions, however, indicate that all citizens residing in the member states of the european union should pay the taxes due on all income from their savings. a high-level group will consider the most effective way of implementing this principle. the tax package is therefore left intact and it cannot be said that anyone has got away with it. a report on this and the other parts of the fiscal package will be submitted to the european council by june 2000. as regards environmental policy, the european council stressed the need to intensify work on these issues in the coming years. the european council decided to work towards creating the conditions for member states to ratify the kyoto protocol before 2002. the conclusions also call on the commission to draw up a proposal for a sixth environmental action programme by the end of 2000. the commission is also invited to draw up, for the european council in june 2001, a proposal for a long-term strategy to ensure that policies aimed at economic, social and environmental sustainable development are consistent. the main event of the finnish osce presidency was the summit meeting in istanbul on 18 and 19 november. the european union is generally satisfied with the outcome of this meeting, during which the charter for european security was signed. this charter builds on previous agreements and strengthens the achievement of democracy, peace and human rights. it also strengthens the osce's capacity to carry out its tasks. the charter includes the european union's proposed model of cooperation between international organisations, the so-called 'platform', in particular for conflict prevention and crisis management, and strengthens the organisation's rapid response in the non-military crisis management capacity. it is extremely important - also in view of russia's actions in chechnya - that the charter be ratified and that the commitments be respected also in conflicts between states. the meeting also approved a statement on current political issues. this declaration takes a position on the situation in chechnya and kosovo. in addition to the ecf agreement on conventional armed forces in europe, the parties signed an adapted ecf agreement at this meeting. this agreement ensures the limitation of conventional armaments, country by country, which corresponds to the situation created after the cold war. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my warm thanks to the finnish presidency of the council on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats for the work it has done and the goodwill it has shown. mr president-in-office of the council, your work, that of the foreign minister and that of mr kimmo sasi, shows that small countries can also do good work, and we thank you for this, especially since the republic of finland is holding the presidency of the council for the first time. so please accept our thanks and appreciation. the summit participants and you, mr president-in-office, have spoken of historic decisions. i find that description hasty. the future will have to show whether the decisions taken in helsinki were really positively historic or, rather, negatively historic. only historians can answer the question whether helsinki was a summit marked by the intoxication of enlargement and the mini-reforms decided in this perspective or whether it really contributed to the strengthening of the european union with a view to making this europe capable of acting in the 21st century. let us hope that the latter will prove to be the right option and that the helsinki summit will be an example, a symbol of europe's strength and efficiency in the 21st century. that is our hope, but it will depend on the facts and not on the words of the presidency's conclusions. we welcome the start of accession negotiations with latvia, lithuania, slovakia, bulgaria, romania and malta. that has always been the policy of the epp-ed group. europe must now be united. as regards the question of reform of the european union, we are pleased that a small door is being opened to reforms beyond the three leftovers from amsterdam and we hope that the portuguese presidency of the council will do the necessary. but we are concerned to read, mr president-in-office, in paragraph 16 of the council conclusions that the question of the potential extension of the qualified majority in the council remains to be examined. it 's potential . no, it's not a question of looking into that possibility. the extension of the qualified majority is necessary for the union to be able to cope with enlargement. we are making this very clear before the intergovernmental conference. (applause) we also expect the european union to have a legal personality. we expect the european parliament to have codecision on all matters. we expect parliament to have the right to give its assent to all amendments to the treaties and, in line with the proposals of mr dehaene, mr weiszäcker and mr simon, we maintain that it would be appropriate to draw up a basic and an enlarged treaty so that the citizens of europe would also know which level is responsible for what and what the european union will look like in the 21st century. as far as turkey is concerned, president prodi is right when he says that we must have a debate on the geographical boundaries of the union. we would have liked this debate to have taken place before the decision to grant turkey candidate status, rather than after the decision has been taken. (applause) i would like to thank as regards the candidate status granted to turkey, we do not entirely agree with the majority of our group. this is also the case in other groups. this is an important issue and there is really nothing wrong with having different opinions. the vast majority of our group are, however, sceptical because we know that turkey's accession will change the political, economic and cultural identity of the european union. we consider turkey to be a friend and we hope that it will succeed in developing a genuine civil society, that it will succeed in giving a real identity to the kurdish ethnic group, within the framework of the turkish state and nation, of course, and we hope that the turkish military, which - and this is the tragic part of this - is linked to the west, will also respect the proportionality of means with regard to the kurdish question and will not, in the event of problems with the kurds, try to solve these problems by military means rather than by dialogue. in short, we want turkey to succeed in developing a genuine civil society. the last point is foreign, security and defence policy. we congratulate the finnish presidency of the council, representing a traditionally neutral country, on taking a courageous step. but now the words must be followed by deeds. it would be unfortunate for the european union to talk about european defence without even having the necessary resources for that purpose and in the end to drive another wedge between us and our american partners in nato. the european union must be more effective and stronger in general. it must have a genuinely democratic policy and a human rights orientation in order to be able to be a factor of stability, peace, development, respect for human rights and democracy in europe in the 21st century. it is a task that must be carried out and we hope that helsinki will be the basis for it and that from now on, action will follow words. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, a historic decision was indeed taken in helsinki. it's a blank check for the future that no one knows - not you, not us, to be honest - if we'll ever cash it. after the unanimous decision in favour of the enlargement process, there can no longer be any doubt about the seriousness of our intention and that of turkey to meet the copenhagen criteria as soon as possible. in line with the wishes expressed at the helsinki council, the european union should have 28 member states within a few years. however, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, there are some questions about the scale of the decision taken. do you really believe that by eliminating the three leftovers from amsterdam, our union will remain efficient, transparent and democratic when it has 27 or 28 states? do you really think we can continue to solve the language problem as we have done so far with 15, 16, 17 or 18 languages? do you think we will be able to maintain the functioning of our institutions, the council, parliament and the commission, and the balance between them with 27 or 28 states? do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen, that turkey, the most populous state in europe with its own history, is merely adding a twenty-eighth state to the european union and that it does not give the european union a new quality? is it not necessary to develop a concept for extending the schengen borders to the tigris and euphrates? is it not necessary to develop a concept to respond to the applications for membership which, following the helsinki decision, will reach the european union from eastern europe and the caucasus region? and what attitude should we adopt towards russia if we receive applications for membership from this region? i hope that within the european union we will find the flexibility needed to ensure the cohesion of the european union, a flexibility which we have not achieved by any means by what we have discussed so far on flexibility. i hope that in the years to come we will all find the strength and courage to answer these questions and to find answers before others do and not according to our own political will.
(de) mr president, i am glad that mr patten is at least here to continue this important debate, because we have urgent matters to discuss. the council finally agreed to the idea of imposing sanctions against russia. but given that the war has been raging in the caucasus for a long time, this decision comes naturally far too late to bring about a real solution to the conflict. and it is far too afraid of the mass deportations of civilians. you have to imagine for a moment what's going on there. ingushetia currently hosts more refugees than its population, and it does not receive the same level of humanitarian aid as kosovo. there was humanitarian aid in kosovo, there isn't here. that's the situation. the partnership and cooperation agreement must therefore be suspended immediately. russia must be excluded from the g8 summit and its government must not receive any more credit until it is willing to accept a peaceful resolution of the conflict. what is our foreign policy like at the moment? we are talking about an armed force, but for weeks now we have been postponing any decision on crisis prevention. europe cannot be content with being the europe of the oil companies, it must become the europe of human rights. the green group therefore calls for a conference on the caucasus to be held in cooperation with the osce in order to contribute to peace in the region. we will continue discussions with the chechen representatives of human rights organizations to discuss projects as well. i expect the commission to give real support in this area in order to contribute to peace and prevention in the region, because this is much more important than the decision taken in helsinki on the use of armed force.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work. the establishment of an employment committee further enables member states to strengthen the coordination of their policies in this field. on behalf of the epp, i thank the presidency for the good preparation of the employment guidelines for the year 2000 at the various councils of ministers and ministerial conferences. however, many national governments, and even the council, have not followed suit. in helsinki, for example, only a small part of parliament's proposals on guidelines were adopted. parliament wanted to achieve more than what the council is proposing in the fight against longterm and youth unemployment. above all, it sought to achieve sustainable integration into the labour market by strengthening active measures rather than passive ones. this implies an increase in the number of unemployed people in training or further training, as the lack of jobs on offer is only one side of the coin. the other reason for unemployment in the european union is the lack of vocational qualifications. i thank the finnish presidency of the council for its cooperation in improving the coordination of european employment policy. however, a long-term strategy at community level is still lacking to unlock the social potential for creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship, investment and performance. reforms to promote dynamic competition and flexibility must be aligned with the requirements of maintaining and modernising social security systems. this is how we conceive the european model of social organization of the social market economy.
(de) mr president, today is a great day for strasbourg. i would like to disagree with mrs maij-weggen. i believe that strasbourg is the independent political and parliamentary face of a europe of culture that is emancipated from bureaucracy. so i'm very happy with what we've had today. without amendment to the treaties, we cannot put an end to this travelling circus and the superfluous mini-sessions in brussels. we can do this completely autonomously. we'd save money in a very short time. i would ask mrs maij-weggen to support me on this point. as far as the council is concerned, i think that helsinki has had its ups and downs. the clear signal sent to the countries of the second group of central and eastern europe was undoubtedly a high-level event: this second group is no longer excluded, negotiations are about to begin with it. i welcome this, at least in the case of slovakia and the baltic states. nevertheless, the decision on chechnya was particularly important. for two and a half months this parliament has been saying very clearly that we are demanding the suspension of certain parts of the partnership and cooperation agreement and financial aid and the redeployment of the tacis programme to humanitarian aid so that russia feels that it cannot continue this genocide. at that time, we were very strongly opposed. i am very pleased that the council has now followed the standard which this parliament tried to establish two and a half months ago. i ask the council and the commission to ensure without delay that tacis aid is effectively redeployed, because we cannot continue to allow this mixture of electoral campaigning and bloody colonial war. we want russia to be our partner, but a partner that respects human rights. as our colleague mr oostlander has said, this parliament is in favour of a europe of human rights. russia can only be a partner if it puts an immediate end to this genocide.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in helsinki the council adopted measures and new decisions on enlargement, security and defence policy and the convening of an intergovernmental conference. together, these three things can take on a historical dimension but can also threaten the european project if we do not find the answer to the question of where overstretching can lead to the end of political union or if we fail to overcome the problem of legitimacy. these are the reasons why the intergovernmental conference is so important, because only by demonstrating efficiency, transparency and democracy in the eyes of the people will it be possible to overcome both the danger of overstretching arising from enlargement and the lack of legitimacy. i therefore believe that the igc should have a central position in this triangle of enlargement, the igc and foreign and security policy. in this respect, it must be clear that at no stage, whether with 12 or 13 candidate countries, can we accept a relaxation of the copenhagen criteria and that parliament will not tolerate such a relaxation and will not ratify any treaty to that effect. i believe that the more the union is deepened in the framework of this intergovernmental conference, the sooner enlargement will be possible. but at the same time, it also means that the deeper the union, the more the candidate countries will have to ask themselves whether they are ready to make the sacrifices of sovereignty that this entails. i think that this aspect should also be emphasized in relation to turkey. let me make one final remark. significant progress has been made in the area of foreign and security policy. however, i believe that one thing is missing: the real involvement of the high representative and the commissioner responsible for foreign affairs in the decision-making structures of the bodies' management. all this has been stressed before, and we must make sure that it works in practice. if we do not do this, we will be faced with a new intergovernmental organization with no new meaning, with only new titles, because the key points will not match. parliament will see to it that this is put in order.
- (de) mr president, the president-in-office of the council inserted two phrases in the helsinki conclusions: the enlargement process must remain effective and credible and the applicant countries must take part in the enlargement process on an equal footing. if we compare this with the promise to grant turkey candidate status and the announcement of a conference in the spring of 2000 in which turkey will not participate, we see that this candidate status was granted rather hastily and that it is a blank check without provision. the improvements noted by the commission and the council presidency should also be viewed with some reservations when considering the confirmation of mr öcalan's death sentence; the fact that the sakharov prize winner, leyla zana, is still in prison for fighting for her right to freedom of opinion; the kurdish problem still suffering; i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. the subject of the public and behind-the-scenes debates makes it very clear that europe is not being honest with turkey. in other areas, such as foreign and security policy and defence policy, the decisions taken at helsinki are very positive, but as regards turkey's acceptance as a candidate country, they are extremely contradictory. there is a risk that far too much is being demanded of europe and turkey in this part of the enlargement process. anyone who wants to become a member must be prepared to do so under the conditions set by the european union. i read that during that conference mr ecevit stressed that turkey had a fundamental right to be a member of the european union. i think that's a very bold statement. i am not sure that the turkish political class is even aware of what awaits them if they were to actually give up certain sovereign rights. we therefore consider that the decision taken at the summit is hasty and wrong. if you consider the conditions under which negotiations with turkey have still not been opened and that it is only granted the status of candidate country, and therefore no legal instrument of its own is being created, it means - you can read the text again - that the un must be asked to settle the disputes. this should be clarified by 2004 on the basis of un resolutions. we are convinced that these are not the reasons for granting turkey candidate status at the present time. if turkey joins, europe will have to change its form and its objectives fundamentally. mr prodi himself said that we urgently need to discuss its values and its limits. we believe that the best solution is an autonomous approach: security partnership, development of the customs union, constant political dialogue - rather than announcing the granting of candidate status which is worthless and will lead to more problems than solutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. - (de) mr president, if we have understood the president-in-office correctly, this is an important message, since the council is getting closer to parliament. but from the experience of the preceding weeks, while i enjoy hearing this message, i still lack faith. so we need to have a clear picture of what this message really means. in recent weeks parliament has made efforts to get closer to the council. so far, the council's action has been minimal. if there is movement now, one has to ask why it was not so a little earlier. i am not sure that this is the case, but i do not think that it is. in short, as long as this is not cleared up, i stand by the decision taken last night by the committee on budgets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i must say that the budget before us is indeed a social budget, since, in accordance with our amendments, it clearly takes account of measures to promote employment. those who want action in favour of families, those who want young people in training to be able to continue to gain experience abroad and those who really want to fight social exclusion will be voting for our amendments after tomorrow. i am convinced that those who want the european employment strategy to be more than a fine speech and a theme for summits, but also to be anchored at local level, will support our new employment initiative. but a social europe also implies strong trade unions and workers' associations which maintain a permanent social dialogue. we will never start exporting this successful model to central and eastern europe soon enough. that is why we have cancelled the reductions proposed by the council.
- (de) mr president, i do not want to deprive my colleagues of their speaking time, but at the beginning of your speech you indicated to us that there was no doubt now that the commission was going to initiate an infringement procedure against france. this debate is not only about france; it is also about germany. the compromise reached between france, the commission and the united kingdom was to apply tests, also for diagnostic purposes, and to introduce labelling of british beef on the basis of this export programme. these measures were also requested by germany. i therefore ask the following question: if you are now starting infringement proceedings without waiting for the results of these tests, if these tests have not even been carried out yet - we are waiting for mr byrne's proposal on this matter - and if the logistical aspect of labelling is not yet ensured, how can you expect france and germany to lift their embargo now? should not the commission first of all create the conditions for this and monitor their implementation? mr president, we shall have to hear a statement from the commission on this subject again tomorrow. perhaps we could go into this further.
commission -en) let me first take stock of our action this year. the european community has demonstrated the strength of its commitments to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on a purely financial level, in addition to technical assistance under the phare programme - €22 million - and the financial protocol, an interest subsidy for eib loans totalling €20 million, we have allocated €143 million in exceptional aid to support the country in its efforts to cope with the consequences of the crisis in kosovo. equally important, fyrom is the first country to be actively involved in the european union's stabilisation and association process. the council is expected to adopt the negotiating mandate for a stabilisation and association agreement in january. it is therefore reasonable to expect substantial development of cooperation between the european union and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the year 2000. it will be a year of negotiations which we hope will end in a fine way with the signing of an agreement. at the same time, the commission will continue to support the process of political and economic reform in that country, under the existing cooperation agreement and through the phare programme, or the new financial instrument to replace it.
- (de) i thank you, commissioner, for that positive and concrete reply. macedonia was first a victim of the communists and their heirs, then of two boycotts and the kosovo war. the government in power there is now very multicultural and is consciously seeking to build a bridge to the albanian part of the population. but he needs economic success to prevent a new outbreak of nationalism. i would therefore ask you: firstly, do you think you can make the trip to macedonia in a relatively short time and secondly, do you think - but you have almost said it already - that you can reach an association agreement next year?
- ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, i would like to make two comments. the first is addressed primarily to our new colleagues. i would ask you to speak at a pace that will allow the interpreters to follow your statements. if you don't, your words will be mistranslated, or not translated at all, and the reach of your intervention will be close to zero. second request: i would ask you to stick to your speaking time as much as possible. i'm not really asking for myself - i have all my time. but it is the case that many of you, and especially our new colleagues, do not clearly perceive that the conduct of a plenary session is not just about the speakers and interpreters you see in the booths. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these people would like to be able to go home at some point. you would oblige all of us to stick as much as possible to your speaking time. i thank you for your attention to these remarks.
- mr gorostiaga, as regards article 112 on the emergency procedure, the provisions are very strict. the time limits for this purpose have expired. on article 108, you need the support of one tenth of the members of this house, which we are obviously not reaching at the moment. i will pass on your request but at the moment, i'm afraid there's nothing we can do about it.
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the joint debate on the 2000 budget. deadline for tabling amendments: see minutes
- (de) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking both rapporteurs on behalf of my group. if we look at the situation we were in at the beginning of the negotiations, we can only see what has been achieved so far, in our view, after difficult negotiations on some of the most difficult points. i also appreciate, commissioner schreyer, that you have tried to mediate in this difficult and ultimately fruitless consultation. in this respect, it goes without saying that the commission's attitude throughout this procedure was not itself without contradictions. on the one hand, it has been too timid in its efforts to declare the protocol of the interinstitutional agreement and to make multiannual commitments at international level, but it has refused to take the first step towards solving the financial problem by the year 2000. it was too little for us. at the same time, it was clear that mr prodi was already planning ahead to 2006 - there is a real lack of coordination, mr president of the commission! in view of the decisions of the european council, the question naturally arises as to what will happen to heading 7 of the budget in the future. in view of the option chosen by the council, the strongly desired extension of the circle of candidate countries, should we not also start with a review of the financial perspectives? no, for parliament it is about maintaining our international credibility and remaining serious about the budgetary procedure, including the financing of the new priorities. in this respect, parliament is aware of its responsibility as a branch of the budgetary authority. this was further emphasized by president chirac's praise this morning of the budgetary and control functions of the european parliament. we do not want to repeat this year's experience and play the plumber all the time by making a multitude of corrective budgets and transferring resources. i therefore feel i must say very clearly to the council that it has put us in a very difficult situation this week, bordering on the regulatory intolerable, by not acting and rejecting parliament's proposals with regard to this third option which we have put forward. don't do that to us again. today we are reiterating the offer made by parliament, which was a symbiosis between budgetary discipline on the one hand, the willingness to seriously consider cuts - but not linear cuts as you proposed to do - and, at the same time, to study the essential political priorities and to finance them. on behalf of my group, i say to you, madam president-in-office, that if you can present us tomorrow morning with the written declaration we have requested, we are prepared to accept the compromise and implement it. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget, but i would like to say that the council has taken a decision on the budget, and that the council has taken a decision on the budget. and if you don't honor your promises, you lose your credit. in the light of the experience gained and of today's speech, i therefore send a clear warning to the council: if we do not reach a satisfactory solution in the spring on the multiannual programme for kosovo and the western balkans, with adequate commitment from the council, you will be operating in particularly dangerous waters in the budgetary procedure for the financial year 2001. parliament does not want that. it is up to you to put together the 2000 budget and a reasonable multiannual programme to finance these priorities.
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, the 2000 budget is the budget that must take us into the next millennium. he's setting the tone. it is a matter of political content, of course, but it must also set the standard for how we should not behave towards each other. i would first like to say that as far as the discussions on the 2000 budget are concerned, parliament must thank its two rapporteurs who have done an excellent job and have set in motion the things that have been discussed at length in this house. i would like to recall the new bat regulation; commissioner schreyer reported it today. last week we had a meeting of the committee on budgets, where very clear commitments were made for the future, so we can expect progress on this and we will monitor the reality of this. we will support you with sympathy and critical thinking on this question of the evolution of bat. as regards past experience, and in particular the regular use of available resources, we have sent out signals by increasing olaf's staffing. the signals we have sent are unequivocal in one of the most important budgetary items in terms of expenditure, namely agricultural policy. we want to move away from a pure and simple policy of supporting market prices towards rural development. and additional resources will be allocated to this end in future budgets. we have made it clear that the consumer is the only important factor in our europe. we have therefore strengthened the food safety agency to send a signal to this service and we have committed adequate budgetary resources to the weakest members of our societies in order to make progress in the fight against unemployment. these are the things that have been discussed in this parliament and put forward by a very large majority on the initiative and with the support of our rapporteurs. the decisive point in this debate, the point which has given us the most work and hassle, was of course the question of how to achieve adequate financing for the major challenges that europe will face in the coming years. i am thinking of course of the balkan region and, more specifically, of kosovo next year. you can count on us in this parliament to do everything we can to lay a solid foundation for this. we have been very clear on this point in the budgetary procedure. we want to have a good basis so that we can not just move from one problem to another but also be able to work together on a sound basis for several years, because the balkan problem will not be solved in one year. we have made it very clear that we are not only asking for more but also want to do our duty in this area. we've made some very targeted redeployments in the budget. we have not made a general reduction but have said that we will make reductions in posts where possible. we are not talking about non-governmental organizations or aid programmes, such as those which are fighting aids in the third world and which are entitled to expect aid. we did all this unanimously. this too clearly shows how important these questions are to us. in every debate and vote in this parliament you have been able to note our great resolution. regardless of our ideological biases, we have behaved in a way that must have made you understand that we take this matter very seriously and the way our relations are going. and that will also be our credo for the next few years. i can only support what mr böge has said on this point. in future too we shall endeavour to build our interinstitutional relations on a foundation of trust, a trust which may have been too little in some areas this year, in our leaders and in yours. we, the social democrats and socialists, therefore, are reaching out to you to say that we will support you if you do present the above-mentioned declaration to us tomorrow morning. and we will make sure that we have a budget for the year 2000 that is both appropriate and that offers a perspective. but we will also be very careful not to jump into the unknown - and we will be careful in the years to come - and to have a rigorous planning system that everyone can rely on, especially those who really need the money. it is those who are currently living within the european union and those who are living outside it who are entitled to our solidarity. we will do our duty in the future too. we shall make conscientious use of the possibilities which we have as a parliament; you can count on it. however, we will also endeavour to strengthen our ties with you so that we do not have to find a solution so close to the end of the procedure, as we did this year. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the council and the council are able to reach a compromise before the end of the procedure. we invite you to take a step in our direction; we'll do the same with you. but as we've already told you, rest assured we know what we can do when we're being played.
- (de) i too would like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on budgets. as members of the green group, mrs buitenweg and i are new to the committee on budgets and we encountered initial difficulties in getting on board. i must say, however, that, contrary to what is happening at national level, it is striking to note that in europe, specialised policies are being pursued beyond partisan interests and that on specific issues the european parliament is aware of its responsibilities, which are naturally all the stronger and more evident as a result of the low turnout in the european elections. we all know that we must present a sound policy to the citizens of europe on budgetary matters and budgetary control, and that we must ensure that it is effective and transparent. in this respect, i think that parliament can boast of success in these budgetary negotiations. i think we are coming out of these negotiations stronger, and that is a very important point. the council must realise that we cannot transfer ever more responsibilities to the european level without also entering into serious negotiations with the european parliament on the way in which these additional responsibilities are to be financed. this year it was not just kosovo, east timor and the earthquake in turkey. we all know that enlargement is also a matter of discussion. we all know that the decisions taken at helsinki on turkey and on enlargement to the east in general will sooner or later lead to higher expenditure. that is why we should return to serious negotiations in the budgetary field and the council can be glad that this parliament has taken on more responsibility and has become politicised on these budgetary matters. in future we will pay much more attention to the proper implementation of the budget at european level.
(de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one could almost say that everything comes in time to those who know how to wait, but we have waited almost too long for it to come in time again. when i look back at this afternoon, i must say quite clearly that the situation is most unsatisfactory and that we as the european parliament must still try, by almost circumventing our own rules, to save and catch up with what must be done. i would like to say again that the situation is very unsatisfactory on the whole. unsatisfactory because, as the helsinki summit has shown, we have a council which makes ardent promises, but in the end the budgetary authorities, of which the council is one, have to ask themselves how to keep the whole thing under control. in addition, this is the first budget we have to draw up under the decisions taken in berlin on agenda 2000 and we are already seeing that these decisions are not sufficient to ensure the financial aspect of the wishes regularly expressed by the council. in the years to come we will face even more frequent problems when the decisions of helsinki - i am thinking in particular of enlargement - have an impact on the budget. as the speakers who have preceded me have already said, i therefore expect a little more consistent decisions from the foreign ministers and the finance ministers. i think that each government can set up a system in its own member state and then we can solve the problems together. i would like to mention a second theme: the technical assistance offices, which have played a special role in the past. in this respect, parliament has already clearly identified the responsibilities and proposed clear solutions. i should like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, who has put forward clear proposals on this subject with the necessary firmness and the support of this house. if any institution has taken up its responsibilities in this budgetary procedure, it is the european parliament. i would like to stress once again that in the long run we cannot accept to drag ourselves through crises from one budget to another. the council must clearly define the procedure so that such problems do not arise again. as far as the 'small' budgets are concerned - and i thank mr virrankoski - we are on the right track, we are in control of the situation. i think that on the part of parliament we are acting for our own budget in accordance with the requirements to which we subject others. i think that is a very important point. i would like to mention in particular the travel costs for civil servants on active duty, a problem which requires an urgent solution, and all the other points which i think we have already settled properly at first reading and which should finally be accompanied by a proper vote.
- does that make it clearer, mr. wynn?
- i give the floor to the minister and then to the commission to clarify this matter.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, as regards these statements, they have been approved as presented by parliament. i don't see anything wrong with that.
commission - (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i repeat, for the sake of clarity, that the text is already available. for the sake of clarity, this is the text which was negotiated and presented to you at the sitting on monday. mr wynn asked me again about the figure of 5.5 billion. at the osce summit in istanbul, commission president prodi spoke of political missions throughout the western balkans region for the period 2000-06 and announced that the commission was considering some eur 5.5 billion in much-needed support. parliament has now asked the commission to present concrete estimates in the form of a multiannual plan for the region and the period concerned. we're working on it. i would ask you not to make any premature stops and to stick to the fact that the commission must present a precise and concrete estimate of the needs of this region for this period, which can then be examined - and naturally will be examined - by the committee on budgets, or indeed by the budgetary authorities and parliament. in conclusion, let me say that the debate this evening has again illustrated the difficulty of the negotiations. the commission appreciates the efforts of parliament, and in particular those of the rapporteur and the committee on budgets, and the efforts of the finnish presidency of the council. but i think that if the outcome is positive, these efforts will pay off and i really hope that tomorrow we can reach a last minute solution.
- thank you very much, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
- the report (a5-0090/99) by mrs theato, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the appointment of eight members of the court of auditors (c5-0231/1999, c5-0232/1999, c5-0233/1999, c5-0234/1999, c5-0235/1999, c5-0236/1999, c5-0237/1999, c5-0238/1999 - 1999/0820 (cns)).
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the term of office of eight members of the court of auditors of the european communities expires at the beginning of next year. i regret that the finnish presidency of the council is now leaving us because the finns are also expected to make a new appointment of their member already present at the court of auditors. under article 247 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community and the corresponding provisions of the ecsc and euratom treaties, parliament must give its opinion on the nominees before the council, acting unanimously, appoints the members of the court of auditors for a renewable term of six years. by letter of 3 november 1999, the council invited the parliament to deliver its opinion and sent it the names and curricula vitae of the candidates. the council was to consider the appointment of mr reynders (belgium), mr fabra vallés (spain), mrs geoghegan-quinn (ireland) and mr caldeira (portugal) and the confirmation of mr mohr (denmark), mr salmi (finland), mr clemente (italy) and mr karlsson (sweden). as provided for in rule 35 of our rules of procedure, the committee on budgetary control heard and questioned the proposed candidates separately on 22 and 23 november 1999. in doing so, we have first of all been guided by the provisions of the treaty. these require that candidates belong or have belonged to external audit institutions or have a special qualification for this function. in any case, their independence is the main requirement. in addition, we have included in our deliberations the guidelines of the two parliamentary resolutions of 1992 and 1995 by mr lamassoure and mr bourlanges. i can tell you that after careful consideration the committee on budgetary control has concluded that the candidates meet the criteria for appointment to the court of auditors and has given a favourable opinion on each of the eight candidates. we are particularly pleased that, if parliament agrees to this report, two women will sit on the court of auditors' fifteen-member panel. i would remind you that at the time of the last appointment we made it a condition for parliament's assent that at least one woman should be among the candidates to be appointed. we had one female candidate at the time, another came along. i think we're making some progress. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. these are the rules governing the procedure. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. we discussed the court of auditors' report for 1998 on monday. some very important tasks have been set out for us to carry out. i am thinking first of all of the fact that the court's report clearly states, and i can only emphasize this, that we must change the culture of spending. the court of auditors has given some very important indicators in this respect. given that we have just discussed the 2000 budget in depth and that parliament wanted to move towards multiannual planning of funding in crisis regions, such as the balkans for example, this is a perspective towards which we must orientate ourselves more than to disperse into small isolated programmes or projects, which do not allow for effective control and require greater personnel expenditure than the real objectives that should be achieved. for us, it's about working with goals, not expenses. that is why i have no difficulty in agreeing with the court of auditors: we need better financial management. we already have - at least in part - proposals from the commission on how this should be done. however, parliament must also give a very thorough opinion on the matter. we can no longer afford to see a large number of citizens of the european union saying no to europe. we must all work on this, listen to the proposals drawn up by the court of auditors and incorporate them into our analyses in order to get a positive response from the peoples of europe once again to what unites us.
- (de) mr president, the importance of the court of auditors, an autonomous community body since the maastricht treaty, is growing along with the increase in the powers of the european union. however, the value of an institution depends on the personalities who assume responsibility for it. it is therefore particularly important that the members of the court of auditors be chosen from among persons who are not only competent in the matter but also strong in character and independent. the court of auditors' duties are not always pleasant. the members of the court of auditors are responsible for monitoring the scrupulous management of european financial resources and for ruthlessly denouncing any irregularities. the confidence of european citizens has been undermined in the past, particularly as regards the financial management of the european institutions. we also owe it to the court of auditors, above all, to discover shortcomings. but now it is a matter of restoring the confidence of european citizens in the sound management of eu funds. this means that the task of the court of auditors and its members will be more important and more difficult than ever in the years ahead. all the challenges - enlargement, international competitiveness, high and persistent unemployment - are linked to the financial question. in this context, the powers of the court of auditors could also be modified. i think his preventive missions will increase. i believe that the eight people who have been extensively and intensively interviewed by the committee on budgetary control are capable of carrying out this task to the satisfaction of all the parties concerned. i hope - i hope - that in the future they will have the courage and strength to put their finger firmly in the wound when necessary. a strong europe also needs a strong court of auditors. i do not, however, conceal from you that the strength of the court of auditors suffers from the fact that the representation of women is not appropriate and certainly not representative. this is the small point of bitterness that remains as regards the composition of the court of auditors, although there is even a quite remarkable woman among the current candidates. the member states must therefore be called upon once again to appoint women to this mission. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments.
- thank you, colleague. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0081/99) by mr valdivielso de cué, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom, ec) on the provision of assistance for the reform and recovery of the economies of the newly independent states and mongolia (com (98) 753 - c5-0038/1999 - 1998/0368 (cns)).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr valdivielso on this very good and politically balanced report on the new tacis regulation. i would also like to thank the commission for the very good cooperation it has shown in the preparation of this report. tacis is a very important political instrument of the european community, not only in russia but in all the republics of the former soviet union, with the exception of the baltic states and mongolia. the philosophy of using resources more and more in the mutual interest of the parties has finally been established in tacis too. this means that we are moving from a policy based on the requests made by the beneficiary states to a policy of using the available resources by both sides. i think that this approach will be much more effective and in future parliament should ensure that europe can have an influence on the use of resources. this would give the whole programme a flexibility it has not had so far and would help to avoid carryovers. in previous years, i have had to note, as have many of my colleagues in eastern europe, that the eu budgetary resources deployed under tacis were not always used in the most efficient way. i don't even want to go into the painful experiments that have been done with hundreds of studies. this was due to the very limitations of the regulation on the one hand and management problems on the other. in this area, the deficiencies which i considered to be the most significant have been alleviated by the new draft regulation and in particular the focus on two priorities per partner country - instead of twelve, as was the case - will be characterised by greater professionalism and better visibility. the new provisions on investment opportunities are aimed at developing the sme sector, which is in its infancy or does not exist. in a modern economic system, they are the backbone of the economy. that is why i also suggested, through an amendment, that investments should not be subject to a ceiling of 25% of the total volume but that it should be adapted to the absorption capacity of the partner countries. moreover, it seems to me that the visibility and therefore the reach of our programmes is a problem which we as the eu do not have to face in the field of tacis alone. in this respect, we could learn from the usa. the new tacis regulation allows - as the first regulation did - for resources to be allocated to humanitarian aid in the event of a crisis. the extreme importance of this flexibility is now being recognised, given that, on the one hand, the eu would like, as was decided in helsinki, to suspend certain tacis projects in russia, but on the other hand, humanitarian aid is indispensable and urgent. mr valdivielso, i hope that this was just a translation error, because i think it is very important that the tacis-democracy project continues to operate in russia and that we should carefully determine in which areas tacis really needs to be suspended. we have done so in the case of belarus and we should also consider doing so in the case of russia.
- thank you very much, commissioner. mrs thors, one more question, but very briefly, please.
- you have abused my generosity. this was not an additional question but an attempt to gain a little speaking time. if i may be so bold, i do not think that is very correct. in any case, commissioner, allow me to make a personal remark. you referred to the house of commons. i would say to you that not all the experiences of the house of commons are fully transferable to the european parliament. i have had twenty years of experience in this house and i have learned that in the long run, and at the end of a night's sitting, the popularity of a speaker is inversely proportional to the length of his speeches. of course, this does not in any way limit the right which the regulation gives the commission to speak as long as it wishes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
- the next item is the recommendation (a5-0079/99) by mr bodrato, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles and equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement) (10167/1999 - com (99) 27 - c5-0073/99 - 1999/0011 (avc)).
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks on the parallel agreement: the approach chosen, which consists in agreeing on common standards in the light of the globalisation of the economy but also of global requirements for environmental protection, is the right one. however, it might perhaps be required that this agreement proceed from a common political philosophy and not the other way around, which is the adoption of standards by administrative experts, ignoring the political level. two weeks ago we held a symposium with members of the us congress in this very place, and we discussed this very question, namely the development of a common political philosophy for the harmonization of technical standards, based on economic and ecological requirements. harmony in this regard does not mean that all must sing in the same tone, but that the whole must be harmonious. and to that extent, harmony also implies taking account of the different requirements in the usa and europe. however, this must be done at a political level and not just at a technical level. second requirement: in fact, an agreement is being concluded which is not necessary because everything can be settled within the framework of the 1958 agreement. it is only in the specific interest of a country on the other side of the atlantic that a new agreement is concluded, which could in particular help to delay the establishment of common standards because, in this case, for example, unanimity is required. the question therefore arises whether the requirements of a specific country have not been over-emphasized? the third element that affects us very much. the debate on accession to the 1958 agreement and the kittelmann report on it had already provoked a lively debate on the extent to which parliament's political participation - in particular its right to co-decision - was being called into question. and of course this is further reinforced by this parallel agreement because its mechanisms are further removed from the european parliament. mr commissioner, your predecessor, mr bangemann, had guaranteed at the time that we would be regularly informed of the progress of the discussions on the 1958 agreement and involved in the decision. so far, things have not changed much. i would still like to ask you to state clearly how parliament can be involved in decision-making, how we can ensure that we can intervene in time, how we can ensure that reports will continue to be drawn up - by means of permanent rapporteurs, for example, or small groups of experts - how the commission and parliament can propose to monitor the 1958 agreement together. how does the commission intend to ensure that parliament's right to co-decision is not undermined by this agreement?
- thank you very much, commissioner. it is clear that you have been familiar with the assembly for a long time. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was closed at 11.35 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
- (de) mr president, i asked to speak because you mentioned the agenda. i thought you were going to make a statement on the members of the european parliament's delegation to the assembly responsible for drawing up a charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i had asked that the names of the members of parliament who had been appointed by the conference of presidents be officially communicated to the house. i was assured that the president of the sitting would make this communication this morning and that the names of the members and alternate members of the delegation - in so far as they are members of the european parliament - would then be entered in the minutes of today's sitting. i'm a little surprised we didn't give you that list of names so you could quote them. we must inform the public in a formal way that we have appointed these members to the delegation because the delegation will officially begin its work on friday. i ask you to ensure that there is an official communication on this.
the commission is aware of the fact that the european union is not only a major player in the world economy, but also in the world economy as a whole. a year ago, the signatories to the convention on climate change decided to establish a two-year work programme, the buenos aires action plan. the programme should lead to decisions on the issues not resolved by the kyoto protocol being taken by the sixth conference of the parties (cop 6) to be held in the hague in one year's time. in this context, the expectations expressed in bonn focused on the need for substantial technical changes. it was clear from the outset that important political decisions would have to wait for the sixth conference of the parties. i think that step forward has been made. one element of cop 5 was of enormous political importance: chancellor schröder's request that the protocol should be in force by 2002. i am glad that the european union, as well as many other parties, have supported this idea. this implies that a precise timetable is now in place, one that increases the pressure on all parties to make cop 6 a success. i call on all parties to ensure that the ratification process can be launched immediately after cop 6. against this background, the decision taken by the parties in bonn to accelerate the process in the coming years is important. let me make a few remarks on some of the issues that were discussed in bonn. the most important issues not resolved by the kyoto protocol concern the rules and modalities for the kyoto mechanisms and the design of a global flexible system. the kyoto mechanisms - emissions trading, joint implementation and clean development mechanism - are part of the protocol. it is generally recognised that these mechanisms are able to ensure a good cost-effectiveness of climate action. it is of course crucial that this system is accompanied by a system of absolute compliance with provisions for cases of non-compliance. in view of the difficulty of the international negotiation process, it is very positive that we have de facto reached draft negotiating texts on the kyoto mechanisms and compliance. these texts will remain the basis for further negotiations in the coming months. without this, we would have had little chance of reaching decisions at cop 6. significant progress has also been made on capacity building, technology transfer and adaptation to the effects of climate change. the meeting again highlighted the importance of making equal progress on issues of interest to the industrialized world as well as on issues of interest to developing countries. that is why we need a balanced process between the issues of the kyoto protocol and the underlying issues of the climate change convention. let us not forget that if we are to guarantee the success of cop 6, we must achieve significant results on both these issues, by building a bridge between the industrialized and the developing countries. another success was the continuation of the so-called joint activities. these projects funded by the industrialised countries can only improve capacity building and technology transfer in developing countries and economies in transition. this brings me to a very important issue which was also raised by parliament in a resolution: the choice of nuclear energy as an option for clean development mechanism projects. i believe that the environmental and safety problems of nuclear energy are too great to encourage its proliferation in developing countries under the label of a clean development mechanism. there are excellent alternatives such as renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures, which are much more in line with the clean development mechanism's objectives of encouraging sustainable development. i shall now deal with some of the points of divergence. the eu's proposal for a concrete ceiling for the use of the kyoto mechanisms was not formally addressed at cop 5, but it was the subject of extensive discussions in the corridors. the intentions behind these proposals are stronger than ever and ensure that all parties can meet, at least to a large extent, their own emission targets at home rather than relying heavily on the kyoto mechanisms. this should allow the first behavioural and technological changes to be made in preparation for the much more ambitious emission reductions we will experience in the future. moreover, the kyoto targets must be achieved through real emission reductions and not by buying the 'right to pollute' from another country. these rights have become far too generous because of the economic downturn - the famous "hot air" licensing trade. hence the need to limit the amount of emissions that one country can sell to another. cop 6 will have to decide how to ensure that these environmental protection measures are integrated into the overall package of decisions. the community's position on ceiling issues has not changed. another important element of cop 5 was the voluntary commitments made by developing countries in this area. we welcome the fact that developing countries such as argentina and kazakhstan are deliberately choosing to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions. their participation in international climate change action is of paramount importance for the economic growth prospects of these countries. however, it is crucial that we determine a good process. we must avoid inflating the environmental permits available under the kyoto mechanisms because this would be detrimental to real emission reductions. i hope to be able to stand before you in about a year's time to share with you the positive results of cop 6. in the meantime, the commission will not only continue to take an active part in the negotiations but also to work on community measures in this field. in the framework of the climate change action programme, which i announced to this house in october, the commission is currently focusing on drawing up a list of priority measures in the field of climate change to be presented to the environment council in march. i am also working to ensure that a green paper on emissions trading within the european community is adopted by the commission in march. it will enable a broad debate to be held with all interested parties on the approach to be taken to further reduce the cost to our economies of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. we still have a lot of work to do on the technical and political level if we are to implement the kyoto protocol, which would be a first step in the fight against global warming. i appreciate your commitment to spreading the importance of fighting climate change in europe and to your counterparts in other countries, especially in the us congress.
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this century, environmental protection is playing the role it should have played in the face of the great challenge it represents. it is true that we have made progress in many areas and that some problems, such as water pollution, have been reduced. but the biggest environmental problem that will hit our planet in the next century has not been, it's actually getting worse by the day. man is currently producing twice as many greenhouse gases as the world can sustain in the long term. the countries of the european union account for a significant proportion of these emissions. if we do not act now, the next century will be plagued by dramatic problems. it is not just the famous rise in sea levels and the disappearance of small island states or the flooding of low-lying areas in bangladesh or the netherlands. there is also the expansion of deserts, the increase in the number of tropical storms, the devastating effects of which we have already felt in recent years. all this will lead to an increase in the flow of refugees. there are more climate refugees in the world today than there are war refugees. that is why we are also strongly concerned in europe. the catastrophic floods in france and elsewhere have also shown that if we do not act quickly, problems will arise. some experts are already warning of the explosion of tropical diseases such as malaria, even in our temperate regions. all the serious scientists say that in the long run we need to reduce emissions by 50 percent. in other words, we must reduce our emissions by more than 50% in our industrialized countries and in our european union, because we have to take account of the legitimate interests of developing countries and of population growth. i therefore believe that the kyoto protocol is only a first step in the right direction. there is no way to distort it any further. in the european parliament we support the position of the council and the commission that emissions must be reduced primarily in the industrialized countries. the kyoto protocol's flexibility mechanisms are only complementary, especially the clean development mechanism. it is of course good that industrialized countries or companies from industrialized countries invest in energy efficiency or renewable energy in developing countries. but this cannot be a substitute for commitment in our own countries. the industrialized countries, including the member states of the european union, emit far more per capita than the earth can sustain in the long term. at the bonn conference the council and the commission played a constructive role. the commitment to ratify the kyoto protocol by 2002 is particularly welcome. the bonn conference was not a failure, although more substantial progress would have been necessary in view of the dramatic situation. i was pleasantly surprised by the role played by the economy in bonn. many economic actors recognise that a commitment to environmental protection also offers opportunities to make money and create jobs. there is still a lot to be done between now and the decisive conference in the hague. it is essential that the european commission be credible. we will only be happy if we do our duty in our own countries. some countries have already reduced emissions somewhat, but there are no model students. i am particularly concerned that in countries as environmentally friendly as denmark and sweden, emissions are rising just as sharply. this may be due, especially in sweden, to the abandonment of nuclear power. i think we should discuss this openly. i do not believe that nuclear energy solves all problems, but we certainly do not want our nuclear technology to be exported to unsafe countries and thereby evade our responsibilities. the problem is aggravated by the planned or completed phase-out of nuclear energy in some european countries. we must also ensure that an increase in co2 emissions does not increase our credibility. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, you have given a positive assessment of the results of the bonn conference. i can understand that from your perspective. if we look at it more closely, we see - in what i would call the secondary theatres of operation - progress in the way of acting, in the allocation of working groups, but not in the central issue, that of broadcasting rights. this is regrettable because i think this is the main problem, especially in view of the fact that a large country, one of the signatories of the treaty, has declared its wish to be able to buy back up to 100% of its emission obligations. it is simply outrageous to me that this country should be able to prevent us and the other contracting parties from making further progress for reasons of internal politics - the american election campaign is imminent! the key question for me is therefore: how do we intend to give this process a new impetus so as to involve this important partner on the other side of the atlantic a little more? so i would like to ask how we can take these next few years of further progress and include the united states in it. it is unthinkable that we should accept that we can buy back up to 100% of its bonds. in other words, it means that the us and we could free ourselves from our commitments at the expense of the less developed countries. we have passed the stage of imperialism of the 19th century, let us not open the door to that of the 21st century!
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i regret the absence of mrs siimes, who is the right person to speak on this subject. it is currently in talks with the european parliament's committee on budgets. it is in any case in the european parliament. i shall therefore read the council's statement to you. in accordance with the agreement between portugal and china, macau will return to chinese administration on 20 december this year. portugal and china continued negotiations on the conduct of the transfer of power in a spirit of friendship and cooperation. a sino-portuguese contact group prepared the transfer and regular meetings have been held throughout the last 12 years. macao becomes a special administrative region with a wide degree of autonomy, except in the areas of foreign policy and defence. all other aspects of the management of the region are therefore in the hands and under the responsibility of the local population. the european union has a special link with macao through portugal and the eu institutions have prepared for the next transfer of power. the commission has sent a communication to the council and parliament entitled 'the european union and macao - relations after the year 2000'. following this communication, the council adopted the decisions on macao of 10 december 1999. the helsinki summit also produced a declaration on macao as part of the presidency conclusions. the european union welcomes the special administrative region status granted to macao and will continue to closely monitor developments in the region. the longstanding and strong links between europe and macao make this relationship all the more special. the legal system, citizens' rights, freedoms and values in macau are comparable to those in the european union. trade and investment between the two regions is considerable and there are strong cultural links between the two regions. after the transfer of power, the european union will ensure that the principle of 'one country, two systems' is applied. the european union underlines this specific identity of macao and is committed to the maintenance of the rights and freedoms in accordance with the 1987 joint declaration by china and portugal and the basic law of the macao special administrative region. the european union will ensure the implementation of the international conventions ratified by macao. the union considers it very important that the un covenant on economic, social and cultural rights, the un covenant on civil and political rights and the basic standards laid down in the conventions of the international labour organisation are fully applied in macao. trade relations between the european union and macao are considerable. the eu is the third largest investor in macao and its second largest trading partner. agreements were reached on the continuation of the ec-macao trade and cooperation agreement after the transition process. this agreement creates a durable framework for cooperation between the macao special administrative region and the european union and allows for the continuation of a permanent dialogue on trade, economic and cooperation issues. this link is also reinforced by the accreditation within the european community of a macao economic and trade agency and the accreditation in macao of a commission delegation in hong kong. the example of hong kong gives us reason to believe that the handover of power can also take place smoothly in macau. the small size and unity of macao, combined with international support, will ensure the future development of the special administrative region.
the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the implementation of the agreement. as you can imagine, this gives me a feeling of 'already seen'. some might say i'm becoming a bit of a hand-off ceremonial nut. some have referred to me as the "last governor", which was never true. of course, my good friend and former colleague, vasco rocha vieira, has more right to this title than i do. in my speech this morning, i would like to express my admiration for all that he has done in macau during the long period that he has been governor. he has shown great competence and integrity as a civil servant, which i am sure is recognised by his own country and macao, and by parliament and the commission. i am pleased to be able to pay tribute this weekend to the work of my colleague who is now stepping down as governor. macau will enter a new era after december 19, as hong kong did before. macau will become a special administrative region of the people's republic of china. of course, there will be changes, but for some crucial aspects, life must remain and will remain unchanged. this is what is meant by the concept of 'one country, two systems', whereby macau, like hong kong, will retain its fundamental freedoms and rights and enjoy a wide degree of autonomy as a special administrative region of the people's republic of china. as the presidency said a moment ago, the terms of these rights and freedoms have been laid down in the sino-portuguese joint declaration, which both sides have solemnly pledged to uphold. the european union will continue to pay close attention to macao after 19 december. the commission has recently published a communication entitled 'the european union and macao - the post-2000 era'. the council approved this communication last week and welcomed the commitments it contains and has strengthened them. the communication stresses in particular the paramount importance we attach to the full implementation of the joint declaration. the communication makes it clear that, as in the case of hong kong, the commission will take a close look at this matter and - again, as we do for hong kong - we will publish an annual report on macau. we will monitor the implementation of international conventions to which macao is a party, and in particular the commitments of the united nations on civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights. we also intend to work towards strengthening eu-macao relations, including by encouraging european companies to continue investing in the region. the trade and cooperation agreement concluded between the european community and macao in 1992 will remain in force. the commission welcomes the accreditation of a macao european economic and social agency within the european community. it will help to maintain and strengthen our dialogue on trade, economic and cooperation issues. it is very important, i think, and members will understand, that we continue to be interested in macao, that we maintain permanent commitments. we want our relationship with the future director of the special administrative region to be as good as the one we had with my friend, the current governor. i would ask the director to pay a visit to brussels as soon as possible. it would also be good to have the director of the hong kong special administrative region here when he is able to come, or his internationally renowned deputy. what will take place in macau next sunday marks an important moment in the history of portugal, china and europe. portugal - a country which i know well, or rather which i knew well - has done everything possible to fulfil, in an honourable and optimal way, the responsibilities handed down to it by history. we all have to consider the diversity of circumstances, the diversity of challenges; nothing is ever the same. but when i was in hong kong, i always felt, when i was talking to my colleague from across the pearl river delta, that i was working with a man who shared my values and had a deep sense of duty. we all went our separate ways. portugal followed suit in macao and was fortunate that during this transfer its honour was defended by governor veira and his representatives in the macao government.
- thank you, commissioner. sometimes i wondered if you were speaking as a commissioner or as a governor. in any case, in the present case, the two problems are very closely linked.
- thank you very much, mr president soares. we have no doubt that you will be the worthy representative of the european parliament in macao, even if your portuguese heart will certainly bleed.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i can only say that at the handover ceremony finnish president ahtisaari will lead the finnish delegation and represent the presidency of the european union. i am pleased that the european parliament is now represented by the former president of portugal. the council shares the wishes expressed in this house for a smooth and peaceful transfer of power.
commission - i would first like to congratulate mr soares, as i am sure the whole of parliament, on his role. he not only worked for the restoration of democracy, respect and human rights in one of the largest european countries, but he also played a historic role in the end of the empire, bringing the empire to its end, as well as possible, in macau as well. it is true, and the last speaker, mr gollnisch, pointed out this, that macau is a free society: a free city on the edge of china, on the edge of asia, as mr graça moura pointed out at the beginning of this debate; it's been a remarkable crossroads between east and west since the 16th century. i have faith, i believe in the values that macau and hong kong represent. i believe enough in these values to think that they will survive and thrive, regardless of the type of government in the region, because they are rooted in the hearts of the people. mr. gollnisch expressed his concern about the future of religious freedom in macau. well, if i take the example of hong kong, i don't think mr gollnisch has much to worry about. on sunday morning, i will go to mass with my parish friends at the hong kong cathedral, as i used to do when i was governor. nothing has prevented the continued vitality of christian churches in hong kong. i am sure that the same will happen in macau. however, we must be concerned about the survival of the rule of law, civil liberties and human rights, as mr watson has emphasized in his very welcome amendment. issues such as the james pang case have been a cause of concern for the international community. the commission was concerned about the earlier decision of the hong kong court of final appeal, or more precisely the decision of the beijing parliament to overturn the judgment. we try to intervene when we think that certain actions taken may threaten the maintenance of the rule of law. to not speak up when these values seem to be in danger would be to betray the promises we made to the people of macau and hong kong, to betray our own values. china's wise leaders will recognize that the return of macau, like the return of hong kong, is not limited to the return of a rich and prosperous property to its motherland. it is also something more. hong kong and macau are both big international cities. they can play a very important role in china's continued development and in its successful opening up to the rest of the world. we wish macao, which will have to do the job, well for this exciting period of history which i am sure is about to begin. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize, as i did in my previous remarks, the tremendous contribution of the current governor. i am sure that the best wishes of this parliament will go to his successor, the administrative director, whose task will not be easy but for which i am sure he will put all his powers at the service.
- thank you very much, mr patten. i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m. i am not going to go into the details of the matter.
- doc. b5-0035/99 by mrs theorin and mrs theorina, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, to the commission and the council, on the european union's follow-up to the beijing action programme.
counsel. - (sv) mr president, we thought that mrs theorin would ask the question in swedish and we have therefore prepared the answer in that language. thank you, however, for raising this very important issue. as mrs theorin will no doubt be aware, the preliminary european union conference, which was scheduled for december this year in the framework of the european commission, will take place in february next year. the aim is that even the candidate countries, the non-governmental organisations and of course the members of parliament who have already been invited as speakers and mediators will participate in this conference. as this is a commission work, it would be appropriate to turn to the commission for further information. to keep to the latest developments in the council, the finnish presidency has prepared a form to be completed and sent to all member states and all european institutions on the theme 'women in decision-making'. the responses enabled the finnish presidency to prepare a report containing nine indicators and recommendations. this report was discussed at the council meeting on employment and social affairs on 22 october. in parallel with the discussions based on the abovementioned presidency report, the council drew a series of conclusions which take the finnish presidency report into account. the nine indicators proposed for the further follow-up of the beijing action programme are included and the obligation for member states to achieve equal participation of women and men at all levels of government and decision-making, in accordance with the beijing action programme, is recalled. member states are invited to take the necessary measures. the council is also following with interest the debates taking place in parliament, in particular in the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, of which the honourable member is the chairwoman. my personal opinion is that violence against women is the most serious violation of women's rights. as regards the new york conference, it should be remembered that it is a governmental conference and that there is therefore no official delegation as such from the european union or from the member states. in addition, the commission has observer status.
commission - (el) mr president, my reply will be in two parts: firstly, i will refer to what has been achieved so far since the beijing conference and how the european union has supported the actions adopted in the relevant platform, and then i will address the role of the european parliament in preparation for the special session of the united nations to be held in the summer of 2000. i agree with mrs theorin that the situation of women is dramatic in many parts of the world and is even deteriorating. unfortunately, globalisation, development, technology and the free movement of capital, goods and especially people have often had a negative impact on women and children in the third world. i will mention some of the actions undertaken by the commission, but i would like to stress that in my view there is still a very large scope for new initiatives, both in the commission and in the member states, and that it is naturally necessary to pursue a specific policy of support for these issues, as was done during the preparations for beijing and subsequently in the context of the fifth action plan. as is well known, in 1995, in parallel with the beijing conference, the commission issued a communication which provided for the integration of the gender dimension into all development policies. in 1995, a resolution was adopted to integrate this dimension into all relevant policies and the guidelines for the commission services to take into account were set out. a budget line has been set aside for awareness-raising and support for women's actions in developing countries. an agreement was reached on the development of indicators and in april 1999 the first communication on results was published for common indicators to take account of the situation of women in the economic, political and social spheres, taking into account the development programmes adopted; finally, in 2000, the first biennial report will be published, assessing the results of these policies. i repeat that some actions have been taken after beijing, but they must be stepped up and we must move towards more concrete measures. as regards the contribution of the european parliament, it must be acknowledged that for years it has played a leading role in raising awareness among european and international opinion, but also in the decision-making process, since it has a bearing on the measures taken by the council and the commission. parliament therefore has a decisive role to play, and the effects of this will be particularly felt throughout the preparations for the special session in june. you know that there is a committee on preparatory questions in which parliament participates. the member states participate in the organisation of the united nations session. as the presidency has stressed, we will be taking part as observers. we have gained experience from the beijing conference, but this will not prevent us from having permanent and practical cooperation throughout this preparatory period in order to reach common positions among the fifteen, which is of vital importance in order to give them more weight and to make them more effective in june.
- madam commissioner, we must prepare the room for the solemn session. that means that we will continue the debate until mrs gröner has spoken and then we will suspend it.
- (de) mr president, as the commissioner has already pointed out, the european parliament was and still is the driving force behind the beijing action programme. the fourth action programme on equal opportunities is based on this preamble. we have tried to anchor the policy of non-discrimination on grounds of sex in all political areas. we have taken specific measures, for example to combat violence against women. as rapporteur for the european parliament, i attended both the ngo forum in beijing and the intergovernmental conference of 189 states and, of course, i have followed very closely the progress made in the last five years, both within the european union and in the developing countries. i would like to recall that under the spanish presidency the eu spoke out unanimously in favour of women and took advantage of this strong position to insert key points in this action programme during the negotiations. it was the right experience. the worst experience was that the european delegation did not fully integrate the members of the european parliament and that they did not have a clear status. the situation was different at the subsequent talks, for example at the wto negotiations in seattle. we should therefore use this new practice at future international conferences. that is why i am asking the council, in particular, the following concrete question, to which we expect a clear answer: what will be the status of the european members at the next conference in new york, the famous beijing + 5 conference? the commission has already involved us in the preparations for the conference in february. we are still waiting for this clear message from the council because we do not yet know whether we will be represented, and in what proportion. we're running out of time. the ece conference, i.e. the united nations vote for the europe region, will be held in geneva in january. we are not clearly involved in this as a delegation. we need a clear answer here. we can say that the commission's preparations, with which we are fully involved, are well under way. first, it deals with the content of the 12 critical areas defined in the action programme. secondly, it provides clear strategies. we do not want to formulate new objectives, but simply to analyse and assess the points on which everything has gone well and those on which we still need to make progress so that the european union can make positive changes in the situation of women in europe and the world at the new york conference. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, mrs gröner. the debate will resume - perhaps that was your question, mrs theorin - after the commission's statement and unfortunately also after the papayannakis and keppelhoff-wiechert reports, but before question time at 5.30 p.m. i must now adjourn the sitting because of the solemn sitting at 11.30. mrs theorin would like to ask one more question as the author of the oral questions.
- dear madame theorin, it was planned this way from the beginning. the agenda was thus drawn up under the chairmanship of the president, who is indeed a lady. i can assure you that there is no such thought at all. we have often had such situations, in which debates were interrupted by solemn sessions. this is a perfectly normal fact for this house, which - thank god - has nothing to do with the report. i now interrupt the sitting to prepare the chamber for the formal sitting in honour of the presentation of the sakharov prize to mr gusmao. (the sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 p.m.)
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, mr harbour's interpretation is correct. the english text should be translated as 'without delay'. i also ask that we take a vote. the conciliation procedure is inevitable. i am, however, hopeful that we will find a compromise on the basis of what the commission said yesterday.
mr president, i would like to propose an oral amendment to recital c on behalf of the colleagues with whom we negotiated this draft compromise. i would like to replace the word "knowing" with "conscious". that is the only oral amendment i would like to propose.
(de) mr president, i would like to object to the fact that i have been asking for the floor for about ten minutes. i do not think it is right that you should put all those who sit in the top two rows in the same bag and not want to read their motions for a resolution. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the german interpretation was incomprehensible because of the noise. so i don't think it's a good idea to turn the speakers up so loud that you can't hear anything in the headphones. that was the first point. i would then like to ask for the assembly's agenda to be changed. if you look at it, you will see that four members of the epp group are sitting in the middle of other groups. this is not a very happy situation and it should not continue, especially after what happened today.
commission. - (el) madam president, i would like to thank all the members who took part in this debate. there is no denying that the beijing conference was a major event, as we see every year. and i think that when the first review takes place in june, beyond the unfortunate findings that are emerging again from the statistics, figures and data on the situation of women in the world, we will also note some encouraging developments. i shall try to answer all questions as specifically as possible. following the adoption of the beijing platform for action and the commitment of the 189 countries concerned, the european union and our region have taken action at three levels: firstly, at the level of the member states, secondly, at the level of the union's political strategy, and thirdly, at the level of the union's policy towards developing countries. and on these three levels, which are equally important, there is already a balance sheet and the programme of future activities will be submitted shortly. i would like to stress, however, as the speakers have done, that the member states and governments have the primary responsibility for fulfilling the commitments of the beijing platform. the european union is involved at the second level with a view to a horizontal strategy. what are we doing and what are the procedures? three events are to be held before the june special session: the economic committee meeting in january, the european conference on the follow-up to beijing in february and the meeting of the united nations commission on the status of women in march. we shall have to make an effort to coordinate these events so that our contribution to the june session is effective. firstly, as regards the regional conference, it is very important to achieve concrete results which will be the subject of general agreement at the end of the debate and which we will take into account when we meet again at the european conference in february. who will be in the final ? first of all, of course, the european parliament, then the non-governmental organisations and, in this connection, as the question has been raised, i would say that the women's movement and the ngos have played and are playing a key role in being the real driving forces in policy-making at european level. finally, of course, the commission with many of its departments, the member states and the presidency will also be involved. during the preparatory phase - you know there is a committee, which i have already mentioned - the 12 areas of concern identified in beijing will be discussed. i will respond to a comment by mrs theorin that we are not in a position at this stage to give priority to four or five areas, because the beijing platform commits us to giving equal priority to the 12 areas, but it goes without saying that when we debate the fifth action programme we can focus on setting priorities at european level. these 12 areas of concern will be examined by the following groups under the mainstreaming headings: the gender dimension in development policy, i.e. the situation of gender equality in all european union cooperation activities with developing countries, women's participation and human rights. these groups will be associated horizontally and vertically with beijing's 12 areas of concern. it is of the utmost importance that we reach consistent results and a common position which will be that of the european union at the special session in june. as some parallels have been made with the seattle meeting, i would point out that the institutional framework is not the same and that the commission does not have the same role in new york as it did in seattle at the beijing conference, but there is nothing to prevent the presidency, the commission and parliament - if there is the political will - from cooperating throughout the six months between now and june in order to join forces, and i am fully committed to the commission, which will ensure both continuous information and infrastructural support for parliament's proposals and work until the last day. i think that by june we will be able to find the final formula, which, as you know, is not based on a decision by the commission - or even by the council - since it is a matter for the united nations, where participation is at the level of the states, but, i repeat, there is the political will and the necessary conditions, since on many issues there is a complete identity of views which enables us to go forward together. i would like to conclude with another observation: movements, political initiatives and campaigns can often play a decisive role. i'll focus on the women's committee's latest initiative for a campaign against violence. it should be noted that a simple movement, a simple idea, can acquire a great scope and find a resonance in public opinion. i think this is an area where parliament could act, and the commission can perfectly support campaigns or initiatives of this kind at world level, since these are issues you have already raised.
commission. - i would first like to apologize to my colleague, mr david byrne. unfortunately, due to the cancellation of this morning's brussels-strasbourg flight due to exceptionally bad weather conditions, he is unable to be here in person. i will therefore be the one to speak to you on this important subject, the measures taken by the commission in response to france's repeated refusal to lift its embargo on british beef. commissioner byrne will, however, arrive in strasbourg later this afternoon. the commission will then be able to hear all your questions when it adopts the proposal for a regulation on the labelling of bovine products. he will also be pleased to meet with individual members of parliament or groups of members to discuss the matter in greater depth. in these circumstances, which could not be avoided, i can only communicate to you, on his behalf, the text of mr byrne. as you know, yesterday the commission decided to issue a formal reasoned opinion to the french authorities in view of their continued refusal to lift their national restrictions on imports of british beef. the french authorities have five working days to reply to this letter. if france refuses to lift its embargo, the case will be brought before the european court of justice. we have not been able to resolve this matter amicably. the commission is very disappointed. it is fair to say that all parties involved are also very disappointed, given the enormous efforts made to find a solution to the problem without resorting to legal action. the commission has always made it very clear that it prefers to resolve this conflict without going through the legal channels. this approach is in the interest of all parties. i would add that it is mainly for the benefit of the most affected parties, namely the british beef producers. one thing is certain: legal action to lift the embargo will probably take a long time and is a second choice to a friendly solution. the commission's efforts have been concentrated on one point: establishing that the original decision to lift the embargo on british beef was not a threat to public health. this decision was based on a series of important safeguards which were strongly supported by scientific advice. the commission also followed the guidelines of the florence european council of june 1996 on the procedures, timetable and safeguards required to lift the embargo. unfortunately, the french authorities, on the advice of their french food safety agency, afssa, were still not prepared to lift their national restrictions. the commission took the precaution of referring these questions to its scientific steering committee in order to obtain its opinion and to find out whether it had any doubts about the decision to lift the embargo and, in particular, the timing of the date-based export regime. the scientific steering committee gave a unanimous and largely reassuring opinion on this point: there is no need to review the decision on the lifting of the embargo on british beef exports. unfortunately, this was not enough to convince the french authorities to lift the embargo. efforts were then made to provide further guarantees and further clarifications on the provisions relating to the date-based export regime. these efforts enabled the united kingdom, france and the commission to agree on a memorandum of understanding on 23 november last, which contained all the necessary guarantees and clarifications. we honestly thought that this protocol would allow the french embargo to be lifted. however, the opinion of afssa on this protocol was not sufficient to decide that the french authorities should lift the embargo. on 9 december they formally informed the commission of their decision. the commission therefore adopted a reasoned opinion yesterday. some have criticised the commission's efforts to resolve this conflict diplomatically as a waste of time and energy. in fact, they would have preferred the commission to take legal action directly. these criticisms are unfounded. they're dangerous, too. as i have already pointed out, they are contrary to the interests of the most affected party, the british beef producers. these criticisms also overlook the very determined measures taken by the commission to comply with its obligations under the treaty and to ensure that community law is respected. in fact, the commission played the carrot (the intensive efforts to bring the parties together and reach an agreement through negotiations) and the stick (the measures to be taken when the efforts clearly were not sufficient). it should be borne in mind that the letter of formal notice filed on 16 november allowed only a two-week period for reply, not the usual two months. the reasoned opinion adopted by the commission yesterday also provides for a time limit of five days instead of two months. in fact, this has not caused any delay in the legal timetable to be implemented to comply with the decision to lift the embargo on british beef exports. the interim period served to provide much needed guarantees to demonstrate that the decision to lift the embargo was indeed justified. in particular, it established the validity of the scientific basis on which the decision to lift the embargo was based. i am sure that if this conflict is ever resolved amicably, and i hope it can still be, it will be thanks to the efforts we have made in the last few weeks. thank you for your attention. let me again apologize to commissioner byrne who is not here in person. he'll be here to answer your questions later, though.
- (de) madam president, i should like to speak on the agenda and make a proposal. we have always insisted that the debates take place in the presence of the commissioner responsible. we can understand that mr byrne is not here because of transport problems and that mr monti has presented the commission's opinion. i think it is essential, however, that the commissioner responsible should hear what members are saying and be able to respond. otherwise we shall not have the debate we are waiting for. i therefore ask that this debate be suspended and that we move on to the debate on competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common agricultural policy. i therefore propose that we adjourn this debate and move on to the next item on the agenda.
- (de) madam president, i would like to add one more thing. i thank mr von wogau for his intervention on the agenda. we now know that the council took a decision last night. i repeat: he took the decision to postpone labelling for one year without parliament having given an opinion or taken a decision on the matter. i ask that the council representative be present at this discussion.
- (de) madam president, i hate to contradict mr von wogau, and even more mr goebbels, but let us start with the formal side. the formal part is that we voted on the agenda this morning. mr von wogau, you always make sure that the sitting goes smoothly, even more so than i do. maybe i'm a little more tolerant sometimes. that is why i attach great importance to our adherence to the agenda. the second argument is that, regardless of the fact that mr byrne will probably arrive in a few minutes, we should know, mr von wogau - and this is a reality you know very well - that nothing we can say today will surprise him. we can very well ask him later about the first part of our speeches. i would ask for a little respect for the agenda of the meetings of members, that is to say those of us who are here, who may have put off other things or who are not yet ready to move on to another debate. i'm just going to go with what mr. goebbels said. what the council is doing, mr goebbels, i can tell you quite frankly, is the second part of the debate, the one that is coming up, namely the papayannakis report on the labelling of beef. i am not interested in what the council does. this parliament has a right of codecision on this proposal. he has the right to make his own decisions. if the council feels he should be present, that's fine. if he thinks he shouldn't be here, that's even better. we will then take the decision we consider best, if necessary we will appeal to the european court of justice and then we will decide. we shall then see how we deal with the council. i do not need the council representative to be here to tell him that i think his approach is undemocratic. we may be able to mention it later in the debate. i want us to follow the agenda as it has been decided.
- (de) madam president, i am afraid we are wasting too much time in this debate on the agenda. i have made a very clear request that the debate be suspended now and resumed after the debate on competition. we have heard at least one favourable and one unfavourable comment. we know the arguments. i now propose that we vote on this request.
- (de) madam president, i have asked to speak for a long time. the original agenda called for the competition reports to be moved. this agenda was amended by the conference of presidents to allow commissioner byrne to be present. that is why we have changed the agenda for monday. if he is not here now, i would urge that we move on to the competition reports. mr. monti has been here a long time. he can defend his reports. i would therefore like to support this request.
- (de) madam president, i refer to rule 142 (1) of our rules of procedure, which states that the president may be informed of a breach of the rules of procedure. this is article 147 in particular. the council has decided that a request for interruption must be put to the vote. that was not the case. you considered the opinion of 32 members as a vote. this is a clear breach of the rules. we cannot accept that the bureau imposes an agenda on us. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the socialist group has so far spoken much more often than most of you and certainly more often than mr stevenson in the debates on bse. but that's just a small answer to the last comment. as chairman of the committee of inquiry into bse, i have probably spoken more often about this subject in this house and in other meetings in recent years than most of you. that is why i think many people will have heard what i am going to say today. let me, however, briefly return to the genesis of the lifting of the export ban. the lifting of the ban on exports of british beef was proclaimed and accepted by this parliament after long scientific discussions, lengthy expert assessments and countless control visits to the united kingdom. we now have a legal problem, namely that the internal market is a reality and that the free movement of goods is guaranteed. only those who have scientifically substantiated and verifiable objections can stop this free movement of goods in order to protect the health of consumers. this applies to all member states, in all areas. since this scientific evidence is always current expertise based on available information, we all need to be interested in the latest scientific findings. like most of you, i'm not a scientist. i have to refer to scientific expertise and i like to learn new things that can make us see the situation in a different light. so i was eager to see what new information was available. unfortunately, i have received nothing from france, from any other member state, or - and i say this to mr stevenson - from germany. the reaction is therefore clear and unequivocal. commissioner byrne and the commission have opted for the only correct response. all member states want to guarantee the rule of law in the european union, all member states want others to respect the law when their interests are at stake. we can't make any exceptions for them. european legal systems are not random. it would have been good, however, if the commission had imposed on all member states the bse test which has been evaluated for a few months. this would give some states additional responsibility, reassure them and finally give us a clear and common picture. we would finally know the reality of bse on the ground. that is why i am asking commissioner byrne when he will submit a proposal to make these tests compulsory in the member states. in addition to testing for bse, we need to find an indication of the source. we shall shortly be discussing the papayannakis report on the labelling of beef. this would also simplify the lives of the member states and serve to protect consumers. the member states have also been sleeping in this area, and i say this loud and clear. they 've been asleep since 1997 ! the commission has also failed to do the necessary. it's inexcusable. let me say a few words about consumer protection in general. i have been a member of the european parliament for ten years and have mainly worked on environmental policy and consumer protection. i have not always had the support of the member states, who are now giving me a lot of talk about consumer protection. i would remind you of the legislation on safety and product liability. i have tried to obtain legal certainty in this matter but some countries like germany and france have let me down when it comes to extending the protection of victims of creutzfeldt-jacob disease. i would have liked more consumer protection and more support. there may now be a new trend in consumer protection. i would ask you, mr byrne, and the commission to delegate your tasks to the member states. normally, the council is a groundhog. normally, all members of the council are groundhogs. make bse testing compulsory and ensure that meat is labeled as such, and we will have already made a great step forward!
- (de) madam president, commissioner, the partial lifting of the embargo is a legal requirement. however, another right must be asserted, namely that a member state may take measures to protect the population if its health is threatened. what i am interested in in this context and in the short time available to me is that if you have proposed in the compromise of these two reviews that a test be carried out and there is a possibility or an obligation to label, it should still be possible to expect, when the embargo is lifted, that these tests will actually be carried out and that the labelling will take place. the logistics are not yet available and we have not yet been presented with any results on the possible application of this test in britain as well. that is why i consider this debate premature in view of the worsening situation. you should, on your part, on the commission's side, apply and evaluate the measures mentioned and bring them back into the negotiations. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, we are postponing the debate on beef labelling until late tonight. i'd like mr. byrne to assure me that he'll be there.
- (de) mr president, i would also like to raise a point of order and ask the bureau to consider the possibility that the important debate on competition policy - which is dealt with in four reports - originally scheduled for wednesday morning, then postponed to the afternoon and now to the end of the evening, will be called only at the tuesday sitting of the january partsession. i would ask the bureau to consider this proposal so that we can deal with the other items on the agenda before midnight. that would be a proposal the president could consider.
- (de) mr president, i would like to speak on the same point. i do not think that today's debate - and therefore tomorrow's vote - has become superfluous, quite the contrary. the point i would like to see clarified on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, however - and since the council is not present, i turn to commissioner byrne - is how we are to interpret the information received and the council's conclusion before us. clearly the council has decided that it cannot approve this simplified procedure - that is, accept this deferral procedure subject to codecision - if we amend the draft regulation proposed by the commission. the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. the council would have decided to approve this proposal if the commission had formally put it forward. we are therefore clearly faced with ambiguous behaviour on the part of the commission and, being in the middle of a codecision procedure, we would naturally be interested to know, commissioner byrne, whether the commission intends to circumvent this codecision procedure by an ambiguous procedure by announcing another way of proceeding in the council. i would have appreciated it if you would have told me whether you approve of the council's behaviour in saying that a simplified procedure can only be approved under codecision if parliament does not use its right to amend the draft submitted by the commission to the council, because we must note that if we do, we are in any case virtually excluded from the codecision procedure. we would like the commissioner to clarify this point before we start the debate. i am sorry to have to ask you this, commissioner, but the council is not here and we would like to see this clarified before the debate and vote tomorrow. i repeat: i believe that the debate and vote tomorrow is urgently needed. i am not in agreement with the previous speaker on this, but i agree with him that we must be clear on this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this house has been dealing with the question of beef labelling since february 1997. at that time parliament had voted in favour of the immediate introduction of a compulsory labelling system. the council had, however, decided on optional labelling at first and postponed the compulsory system until january 2000. we are now being asked to approve a further one-year delay because the implementation of regulation 820/97, which is currently in force, has been delayed. the delay is the fault of the member states alone, or even of the commission. the commission justifies these delays by arguing that the member states' reports on implementation, which are an essential element in determining the general rules of a compulsory system, were submitted too late. in our view, the commission and the member states have not worked as seriously as they should to ensure that the compulsory beef labelling system comes into force as planned. the commission must ask itself why it did not confront the member states with their responsibilities earlier. in all, they were required to create the conditions to ensure that the origin of the cattle could be correctly identified and to make their electronic data banks fully operational by 31 december of this year. nor can the commission's argument that the late submission of its proposal is due to the fact that the proceedings against the council before the court of justice of the european communities concerning the legal basis of regulation 820/97 have not yet been completed be accepted. even if the judgment had already been delivered, it would have been particularly difficult to complete the codecision procedure on this matter. we cannot give our unconditional agreement to a further one-year delay. otherwise we might be forced again, at this time next year, to approve another one-year delay because some member states would not have done what they had to do. we are giving the member states an additional eight months to make up for lost time, but on 1 september 2000 the compulsory system will finally have to be introduced in all member states and for all those who market beef. the commission also has time to present the implementing provisions for this compulsory system. at the same time, the council and the european parliament will establish, through co-decision, the new wording of regulation 820/97. this approach will allow for a more rapid introduction of the compulsory system than the commission proposal and will give all parties concerned sufficient time to reach a lasting and satisfactory solution. in conclusion, i would like to thank our colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for taking into account the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development and i really think it is important that on this matter, which is so important for consumers, the european parliament should speak with one voice and send a clear signal. i also thank once again all our staff and the secretariat for their dedicated and diligent work.
(de) mr president, mr byrne, you have informed us of the council's decision. i agree with you that the council would in fact do so, but i would like to stress the seventh point. it says that a labelling system must be established as soon as possible, in conjunction with the european parliament. i find this passage cynical because it is precisely this document that once again excludes the european parliament from co-management and co-decision. it's the same process as in 1997. at that time the commission had proposed codecision. parliament and the commission have made a proposal. we have not spared our efforts and in the end the council unanimously rejected this proposal and took a decision without parliament. now the council has taken responsibility. but the council has not taken up its responsibility to implement what it itself decided in article 19, namely the publication of the implementing provisions for 1 january 2000. parliament has once again been called to its duty and we have once again fulfilled our obligations. we have not been unjust, nor have we caused any harm. we sat down and we got to work. i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteur, mr papayannakis, and the rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, mr kindermann, as well as the administration and the legal service. everyone doubled down on their efforts. the coordination between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment was good. we have negotiated with the commission. we always played our cards right on the table and said we wanted to be part of the process. the answer was: "walk or die. if you want to be part of this process, you have to get to the bottom of it; otherwise, we will not accept your proposals. " mr byrne, you said earlier that the decision was now up to parliament. it means if we take what you've offered us, we're good. if we make really well-founded amendments, which have been the result of a lot of effort, you decide without us. this is an insult to parliament by the council and we are not prepared to accept it. the commission's role is now being examined. the commission has told us that we have no more time for implementing provisions. please, just give us a little leeway. we give you a little leeway, and what's the result? since the changes we have made are clearly not to your liking, you make another proposal by introducing the compulsory system in accordance with article 19 but saying that the voluntary nature is extended for one year. and by doing so, you are excluding parliament from the process. again, this is an offense we cannot accept. we believe that article 19 does not allow for this postponement. we are engaged in a procedure based on the 1997 decision and we will more than likely end up in a procedure based on the present decision. in this respect, and in the interests of consumers, it would have been very useful to have established a timetable with us so that this compulsory labelling system could be implemented satisfactorily and within the time limits.
(de) mr president, commissioner, as far as the labelling of beef is concerned, we are not discussing the substance of the matter but the timetable envisaged. we are also discussing the council's way of proceeding and the commission's behaviour and attitude. the commission had submitted to us two proposals on the labelling of beef. the first concerned the compulsory labelling of beef in the member states from 1 january 2001 and the second a transitional regulation until 31 december 2000; in short, voluntary labelling. in the interests of consumers, the timetable presented by the commission should be rejected. i think mr kindermann's proposal is a very convincing one. the european parliament should approve voluntary labelling until 31 august 2000 and demand the introduction of mandatory labelling as soon as possible. it is the only way to send a clear signal to the consumers, who are worried. we can no longer accept that the slowest member of the peloton determines the future timetable. nor can we accept that the new commission continues to entrench itself - in my opinion - behind a delaying tactic. the delay in implementing the new regulation is not only the fault of the commission and some member states. in other words, this approach would not have been necessary if the commission had acted in time. in addition, in accordance with regulation 820/97, the obligation to introduce the mandatory labelling system on 1 january 2000 remains. the commission justifies the delays by saying that the member states have submitted the necessary reports on the implementation of the labelling systems too late. i really wonder whether the good pupils in the member states will be punished again in this matter. we cannot tolerate the commission playing cat and mouse any longer. you should know, mr. byrne, that we can no longer afford to display such behavior among ourselves. you should take into account that we really want the decision on this proposal to be subject to codecision. in this case, the interests of consumers should be paramount. consequently, i think we should support the timetable proposed by mr kindermann in the vote tomorrow. this would allow us to send a real signal to the attention of consumers who are in doubt. we should all be aware that we are sitting here as representatives of the people and have therefore been elected by the consumers. as members of parliament we must therefore regularly meet our fellow citizens and engage in debate. i have the impression that the council has already moved far away from that.
the rapporteur. - (de) mr president, commissioner, the ban on the marketing and administration of bst expires at the end of 1999. so this matter has become urgent for us. the commission proposal aims to ban the placing on the market and administration of bst to dairy cows. the commission is based on scientific studies which confirm that the administration of bst to animals causes avoidable pain. therefore, as stated in the report, i reject, in the name of animal welfare, the placing on the market and use of bst in the european union. i would remind you that all the member states have approved and ratified the european convention for the protection of animals kept for farming purposes. the use of bst increases the risk of nipple and foot lesions and has a negative influence on reproduction. there are also reports of loss of profitability, premature disposal of animals unsuitable for breeding and deaths. the numbers speak for themselves. bst increases the risk of mastitis by 25%, infertility by 18%, and paralysis by 50%. but the arguments against the use and marketing of bst are not limited to animal welfare, but also include health and economic considerations. bst is also rejected by consumers. it is therefore easy to imagine that if bst were to be used, consumers would change their habits, which would increase the imbalance in the dairy, milk products and beef sectors. what is even more absurd is that we are already producing surpluses in normal times. bst is not a therapeutic product and is only used to increase milk production. the milk quota system was introduced precisely to reduce milk production and with the bst we would make a mockery of that system. that can't be the case. exports would also suffer. with the exception of the united states, no major purchaser or producer of milk and milk products worldwide authorizes the use of hormones. we were elected as representatives of the citizens and therefore of the consumers. we should therefore take our mission seriously and look after the interests of the electorate. bst is a hormone produced by genetic engineering. so far, no member state has carried out field trials with regard to bst. the changes in the composition of milk which bst can cause have not been definitively established and it is not even possible to assess the effects of genetic engineering on human health. the fact that only a few countries have authorized the use of this hormone cannot lead to a weakening of international health standards. but more decisively, consumers are rejecting bst. it is no coincidence that large supermarket chains declared as early as 1994 that, following a consumer survey, they would under no circumstances sell milk from bst-treated cows, even if the eu moratorium was lifted. what we cannot explain to the consumer, however, is that already today several eu member states import dairy products containing bst - many of them from the usa, the czech republic, slovakia and bulgaria - and that these products have therefore long been on our consumers' plates, such as cheeses made from this type of milk. since third countries authorizing the use of this hormone are not required to make an official announcement, the commission does not currently have an exhaustive list of these countries. i think that is an appeal that should be made to the commission again. the commission should first examine whether bst is harmful to human health and secondly what possibilities there are to make imports of bst products truly transparent. the commission proposal does not address the production of bst in member states or the import of this substance as long as it is intended for export to third countries. in conclusion, let me say this: we all have a hard time explaining to our electorate that bst is already produced in some member states but cannot be used here. i do not know whether, in the context of job preservation alone, we should not also be critical about this. we are in agreement with the commission and i hope that we can approve this urgent measure and close this matter tomorrow. i thank all those who have participated in this work. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, we are finally discussing today the definitive ban on the administration and marketing of bst in the european union. i hope that this is the end of a process which has lasted ten years and has seen the final decision regularly postponed on the grounds, of course, that there was no irrefutable scientific evidence to justify this final ban. today we have this evidence and it confirms that the use of this hormone permanently brings the cow to the limits of its physiological capacity. what are the consequences ? loss of limbs, stomach and intestinal problems, reproductive problems, not to mention the proliferation of mammals. the cows are thus subjected to avoidable suffering. for animal welfare reasons, this is not acceptable. however, is any danger to human health excluded? i am thinking of the residues of bst that are not broken down in the body but also of a potential change in the composition of the milk, not to mention the increase in the antibiotic residue content in the treated sick cows. i would therefore like to support the rapporteur's call for greater efforts to achieve a final clarification of the impact of bst on human health. on behalf of the group of the european socialists, i would like to thank mrs keppelhoff-wiechert for her diligent work and we of course expressly support her report.
(de) mr president, i agree with the rapporteur and mr kindermann. i'm not supposed to repeat them. after years of debate, i would like to express my satisfaction at the point at which we have arrived and at being able to put an end to this matter. i would like to make it very clear again that we must also be very careful about the prophylactic use of genetically engineered medicines. in agriculture, as in health care, we cannot tolerate these applications having side effects. as chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to make one further point. we have voted on amendment no 3. it was the subject of an oral amendment agreed with the commission. i won't go into details but it wasn't in the report. i would like the minutes to state my wish that this point be clarified and that tomorrow, when the vote is taken in plenary, we shall have the version we actually voted for. as i said, this was done in agreement with the commission.
- (de) madam president, i had asked the parliament's administrative services to ensure that the names of the members of the parliament's delegation involved in the drafting of the charter were made publicly available to the house. this was also promised to me by way of administrative arrangements. but contrary to what i was told by the administration, the sitting president yesterday morning - it wasn't you - didn't give this information orally. i then asked him to correct this error, which he did a little later by giving the names in question. however, rather than limiting myself to the names of the holders, i would also have liked the names of the alternates to be published and to be recorded in the minutes of yesterday's sitting, so that parliament and the public can read them. in the minutes i can only find the names of the holders as they were presented. that is why i now ask that the names of the alternates be entered in the minutes of today's sitting, which will be distributed tomorrow - there is probably no other way - so that parliament and the public can finally be informed.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to make a few general comments on the murphy report. it was here in strasbourg that this very important report was finally approved last monday evening by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. this means, as everyone knows, that we must vote on this report in plenary this week. i must admit that this is a coincidence of the agenda which does not allow the parliamentary groups to debate, according to the rules, the vote decided in committee. i would like to demonstrate this to you in concrete terms. if the committee tabled amendments to points 18 to 22 for example and our group - i suppose the same would apply to the other groups - could only debate them today and wanted to vote separately on the various amendments, this would be impossible from a procedural point of view. that is why our group is of the opinion - and i will explain this to the conference of presidents - that in future votes should only be on reports which have been dealt with previously in brussels during the normal week of committee meetings, so that parliamentary groups have sufficient time to discuss reports. (applause) i would like to thank this is a matter which concerns all parliamentary groups. i am mentioning this in plenary because i did not want to deal with it only behind the closed doors of the conference of presidents. i do not want to criticise the committee on industry, nor its chairman. this is not the subject of my speech. in fact, we are saying that, in the interests of small and mediumsized enterprises, our group will approve the amendments on which it has to take a position as a whole, in order to make the conciliation procedure work. i would ask, madam president, that this matter be discussed again at the conference of presidents this afternoon, so that the european parliament can finally find a procedure which allows each of the members of our parliamentary groups to have a say in the decisionmaking process. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if the council and the commission are not able to provide us with some clarification, i shall try to contribute. the council did not decide to postpone the mandatory labelling system by one year, but adopted the following conclusion: if parliament adopts even one amendment in this dossier and refuses to pass the commission's draft in its latest version, the council will reject this amendment and will not apply the simplified procedure. clearly, if we have the audacity to adopt an amendment, it will approve a commission proposal which has already been discussed in the council. if, following our procedure, this draft is presented as the commission's official proposal, the council will adopt it. the draft in question does not, in fact, provide, in accordance with the procedure laid down in regulation no 820/97, for the postponement of the mandatory labelling system, but for the extension, when it is implemented, of the optional system for one year. in practice, this means that parliament has been voted out of office, although it cannot be said that the council had already decided everything. it is a sordid trick to keep us out of the codecision procedure. this is the second time this has happened. this was already the case in 1997, when the council, by a unanimous decision, excluded us from the codecision procedure. we had brought the case before the court of justice of the european communities. it has just used such a method again, whereas article 152 of the treaty of amsterdam clearly states that such a case requires a codecision procedure. we will more than likely consider filing a complaint again with the court of justice of the european communities to protest against this illegal practice used by the council.
- (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know whether some of us are aware that this is an unprecedented moment in the preparation of a budget for the european union. this is the first time that the three institutions of the union have been represented by women.
in writing. -7 - de) two years ago, the regulation which we had to amend on the basis of a commission proposal was considered a crucial issue or, more precisely, a major decision in the context of consumer protection in europe, and this because of the mad cow crisis. the purpose of that regulation was to ensure the protection of animal and public health and to strengthen or even regain consumer confidence in the quality of beef and beef products. what prompted the council to adopt this regulation at the time? perhaps it was an attempt to show the european citizen that we were doing everything to put an end to this mad cow crisis, when we were not serious and we still have no intention - unfortunately we have to admit - of actually transposing this regulation at national level. this is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a deception of the consumer and, above all, a poisoned gift in the field of consumer protection. of course, in the discussions at first and second reading, there was already a fear that the text would be too severe and that difficulties might arise in its transposition at national level. so we were warned. if that's the cause, we had the ability to change that. unfortunately, we did not take advantage of this opportunity. the shortcomings of certain member states - i would have been very interested to know which ones - are one aspect of the problem, the irresponsible attitude of the commission is another. in this connection, let me remind the commission of a few dates which were the subject of a decision: on 31.12.99 - that is, in 16 days' time - the commission was to manage a computerised data bank. is this data bank operational today? the same question arises with regard to the reports of the member states on the application of the beef labelling system. these reports were to be submitted to the commission by 1 may 1999. can we see them? it seems clear that the delay in the various stages of transposition did not occur overnight. the commission could already foresee at the beginning of the year that the deadlines set would not be sustainable. i wonder why parliament was not informed of these developments earlier: it would have been possible to do so in july. today we are discussing a possible postponement of the entry into force of this regulation, without being really informed of the state of progress of transposition in each member state, without knowing how much time will still be needed for this transposition to take place and, above all, without knowing what progress still needs to be made. the original objective of this regulation, which was to inspire confidence in the field of european consumer protection, has, as a result of this postponement, had the opposite effect to that which was intended. the commission proposal presented today is confusing in my view and does not provide any information on the obscure reasons for this delay. i cannot therefore support the commission's proposals.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with deep regret that the cdu/csu group has learned of the council's decision on turkey's candidacy. we believe that this decision is a grave mistake, because in the long run it could not only damage but also damage our relations with this important and trustworthy ally. the council is also aware that turkey does not fulfil the criteria for accession to the union and that this situation is not likely to change before the date envisaged, since the turkish state is not at all prepared to amend essential rules of its constitution relating, for example, to the influence of the army. that is why the expectations of the helsinki summit will inevitably be disappointed. this is also why we want relations with this important partner to be based not on a far-fetched prospect of accession but on the closest possible economic partnership, in compliance with the commitments laid down in the customs union treaty. our relations with turkey are far too important to be based on the hypocritical act of helsinki. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you can trust that i know what i am talking about in this case, since i am the daughter of a bookseller. my parents had a small bookstore in a small town. we barely earned more than the bare minimum to survive, but that was okay. without a fixed price system, i can assure you that we would not have been able to get by. that is why i am disappointed in your report, commissioner. it shows that the question of a crossborder fixed price system for the book sector is likely to become a never-ending story. it is a bit of a stretch to say that books are not goods comparable to butter, eggs and cheese, but rather cultural goods which cannot therefore adapt to the competition in the same way as butter, eggs and cheese. this does not change the fact that some of the products in the printing plant do not meet this requirement. but an anomaly cannot be the norm, especially here. similarly, there is no denying that there are books that make a lot of money. the best-selling books are also exceptions to the rule. it is not legitimate to consider books exclusively as economic products. fortunately, your predecessor, who advocated such a concept, was unable to pass it, which gives us hope. but the danger is not over. that is why we urged you, commissioner, to state very clearly that the book is first and foremost a cultural asset. since national pricing systems fortunately do not seem to be in dispute, we must therefore consider the possibility of introducing such regulation for cross-border unitary language areas. what has prevailed for hundreds of years in the german-speaking area between austria, germany and switzerland, which has guaranteed a multiplicity of works, which in no way harms competition, but on the contrary ensures the maintenance of a multitude of small and large bookshops in cities and countryside, all this cannot be at the mercy of the all-powerful market companies and the blackmail they engage in, whether they are bookshops, mail order houses or electronic commerce. the cultural good of the book has the right to equal opportunities in the various ways it is used, including the means of distribution to readers. the french regulation is presented to us as a possible solution. at the level of import, export and reimport, it can complement national price-fixing systems. it is also compatible with european legislation and has already proven its effectiveness. that is why, as you can easily see, commissioner, the european parliament, all the political groups, are waiting for the green light for comparable regulations for germany or austria, whether contractual or legislative in nature. this will allow this endless story to find a happy ending once and for all. unless you and the commission are accused of being culture killers. you should spare yourself that sorry reputation. you have to choose between culture and commerce. give priority to culture ! (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr commissioner, this question has been the subject of frequent discussions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. if the debate is still going on here today, i must say that what was agreed between the german and austrian book trade and the commission was not mentioned once in the debate. i also note - at least this is what emerges from this week's speeches - that there seems to be a rapprochement based on the recognition of national fixed book price systems and regulations inspired by french law. this approximation suggests, commissioner monti, that you are prepared to balance the cultural aspects incorporated since maastricht into the ec treaty against article 85 of the same treaty. as a competition commissioner, this article requires you to ensure that there are healthy competition standards and to help protect the consumer. the question is: how do we do that ? i'm convinced we're on the right track. we do not have to accuse the commissioner of cultural mediocrity, for he is only fulfilling his duty as guardian of the treaties. i think that if an economically reasonable solution is found, a solution accepted by publishers, a solution which accepts the idea of linguistic spaces, if a solution is found which avoids a major restriction of competition in accordance with article 85, we will be on the right track to find reasonable regulation. that is why i want to support fully the motion for a resolution tabled by mr rothley. however, i regret the absence of any indication of the commission's obligation to observe the competition rules. it is worth adding that otherwise we lose our credibility and put commissioner monti in a position which is certainly not his place. i trust his wise judgment!
- (de) mr president, i am probably one of the few members of this house who has known personally louise weiss, after whom this wonderful building is named. in her fabulous speech at the opening of the european parliament following the first direct elections, louise weiss said that there should not only be european cows and pigs - cows are the news today - but also european citizens. but the european citizen is not unique, european culture lives on its diversity. it is this diversity that is the main issue today. in politics, it is always dangerous to ignore such realities. in the field of the book trade, there is not only the reality of the internal market and the nation-state, but also the reality of linguistic spaces. it would be unforgivable to ignore it. commissioner, i am here on behalf of the state of bavaria. on the cultural level, bavaria probably has more in common with austria and tyrol, represented respectively by mr karas and mr ebner, than with certain regions of northern germany. all these regions, however, constitute a unique linguistic area. this german-speaking area does not correspond to the national market or the eu market, but is an intermediate reality. to recognise this reality is to recognise europe as it is. this is the prerequisite for successful integration. the fact that parliament, by a large majority, has been fighting so vehemently on this issue for years is not a sign of any spleen, but shows how much these debates concern the people. i would like to say to the commission that its legitimate concern for market law must not obscure the fact that citizens expect more, that they now expect a cultural europe. that is why i fully agree that we must find a compromise on this matter and give the german and austrian book trade time to put the solution into preparation. we need time. this is paramount. i feel that the legitimacy and future of european unification depend on it. the question is simply whether citizens will one day be able to say in that minority language which is in danger of extinction, namely latin: civis europaeus sum. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question is whether the arms embargo which was decided in september this year by the council as part of the restrictive measures against indonesia should be extended beyond january next year. i believe that continuing this embargo is the right decision in every respect. we want to send two different signals. we want to strengthen the development of democracy in indonesia. it has undoubtedly received a boost with the democratic change of power and we want and must encourage the democratic forces in indonesia. we must also be aware that the role of the army remains extremely problematic, to say the least. atrocities have been committed not only in east timor, which is gaining independence, but also in aceh province, in particular, and in other parts of indonesia. it will therefore be important to make the military understand that it is still being closely watched by the world, especially the eu, and that we take the liberty of drawing our own conclusions from its behaviour. the only conclusion we can draw at the moment is that we are not prepared to supply any more weapons to this army, regardless of the fact that there is a fear that they will now receive them from china. we must not be responsible for this arms shipment. that is why, after careful consideration, i strongly advocate the continuation of this embargo, because it is also a signal to the indonesian military and, hopefully, to the democratic forces in indonesia, which we assume are strengthened by this position.
- (de) mr president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned about the imprisonment of the president of the court of auditors of nicaragua, mr agustín jarquín, and about the institutional changes which are to be interpreted as a weakening of the court of auditors. we are in agreement on this with the representatives of the member states in the council and, as i understand it, commissioner verheugen, also with the european commission. we have just learned that the nicaraguan ambassador in brussels has resigned because he no longer wanted to represent the nicaraguan government because of the events of the past few weeks. mr agustín jarquín is a democrat of integrity and has carried out his role as president of the court of auditors very effectively and independently. this view is shared not only by those of us who know him personally, but also by his colleagues from the courts of audit of the states of central america and the caribbean, who elected him as president of the occef organisation. the representatives of the international monetary fund and the inter-american development bank also expressed their views in this regard. his work was apparently so effective that some members of the current nicaraguan government and the former government did not like him. the government has in recent months systematically weakened the court of auditors. this weakening culminated in a government pact with a former ruling party. this pact led to the abolition of the post of president of the court of auditors and the establishment of a committee dominated by party politics. the president of the court of auditors, agustín jarquín, was then imprisoned on 10 november this year, on the grounds that, in our opinion, there was no reason for arrest. the european union, and in particular the european parliament, cannot accept that the court of auditors is systematically weakened. as the european parliament, we forced the european commission to resign, because it was unable to refute the accusation that it had mismanaged the funds, an accusation made by the court of auditors and others in europe. imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would have happened if the president of the court of auditors or a well-known representative of a supervisory authority had been thrown in prison for reasons that were obvious! i think there would have been a general outcry. from what we are hearing, we have no need to worry about mr jarquín's health at the moment, but we will have to ensure that he is properly treated and we are particularly concerned about reports that his family - including his daughter - have been physically attacked. i ask the commission to look at this very carefully. i now turn to the president of nicaragua, dr arnoldo alemán, in spanish.
- (de) mr president, i think that this criminal court is of immense importance. in this respect, i would like to say to my colleague mrs thors that the member states of the european union should first do their duty before we demand it of other countries; that doesn't mean the others aren't bound. i believe, however, that it is urgent to ensure that this criminal court can be set up soon. and there are two reasons for this. the first is prevention. a few days ago i was in banja luka and i was participating in a conference organized by our group. it was encouraging to see that the serbian opposition seemed to be really waking up. however, i also met a man who was trembling with fear and recalled the crimes they had committed at that time in republika srpska. the interview was very interesting because i had the impression that if he had known that he could have appeared before an international court, he might have behaved differently. i believe prevention is of paramount importance, and not because of the criminals in power. these are driven by a criminal energy that surpasses everything. prevention is of paramount importance to second- and third-rate criminals who need to know that they will not escape punishment even if they consider themselves the temporary executors of a very powerful character. this is why the criminal court is important in terms of prevention. but there is a second reason why it is absolutely essential. law and crime are not dependent on those who practice them. the problem with specific criminal courts has always been that they seem to aim at some justice for the victors. it is therefore of the utmost importance that a uniform criminal law be established throughout the world to punish genocide and crimes against humanity. it is also necessary to establish uniform penalties and a common criminal court worldwide so that everyone knows that, whatever the pretext used, whatever the ideology or nationality, crime is crime and crime must be punished. this is how bias can be avoided and how we can help to spread the concept of law, which is the foundation of the european union, more widely throughout the world. that is why the commitment to this criminal court is one of the most important tasks that the european union will have to fulfil in the coming years.
- (de) mr president, if the members are in agreement, i would ask that we vote as a group on all the amendments on the resolution on nicaragua, since they all go in the same direction. i should like to explain in a few words why there is no joint resolution but only the epp-ed group's amendments to its own resolution. this is because we had a meeting on tuesday to draw up a joint resolution and the other groups, in particular the liberals and the social democrats, told us that they could not accept certain passages in the epp-ed resolution. that is why we said that we are eliminating those controversial points and keeping only the essential passages. we really only keep the items that have the unequivocal assent of this parliament. commissioner verheugen has also made it very clear that parliament should take a decision on this matter. since the liberals and the social democrats did not feel that they were capable of signing the joint resolution we had negotiated, we said that we would introduce amendments which would weaken our own resolution somewhat so that our colleagues would still have the opportunity to vote in favour of it.
- thank you very much, mr. liese. does anyone object to the proposal to hold a block vote?
- i note that, so we put the amendments to the vote individually.
- i'll take that under advisement, mr. haarder. i would ask you to discuss this in the conference of presidents, because this is a matter for the conference of presidents.
- my dear colleague, that will be corrected. i'm sorry i didn't see you, i was distracted.
- (de) mr president, one of our colleagues has just said that the compulsory beef labelling system will not be introduced until 1 january 2001. i can inform you that the council has apparently accepted our request to bring forward the date of introduction of this system to 1 september 2000. this decision represents a small victory for parliament, at least in terms of the time limit. however, the council did not make this commitment in the codecision procedure. if that were the case, it would have had to approve, by a simplified procedure, all the other amendments we voted for yesterday in this house. in the case of a codecision procedure, everything would have been up to us. instead, the council acted under the old regulation 820/97 in accordance with article 19 of the implementing provisions. it decided that states still had the possibility of extending the voluntary labelling system until 1 september 2000. i don't think that's very fair either. this decision, however, is a reconciliation with the position of the european parliament. apart from that, we are now in a codecision procedure with regard to the other amendments we voted for yesterday, which brings us back to 1 january 2000. the council must react to this. if he does not adopt our amendments, we will then find ourselves in the case of a consultation procedure. all the other matters we want to include in the regulation are still under discussion. i hope that we can also impose our views on the council and that the council will be able to be right.
(ppe-de), rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. - (de) mr president, commissioner, five minutes on a friday is enough. i have prepared for a shorter speaking time, but this will allow me to add a few remarks without going overboard. hop is a special plant. (applause) it is this that ultimately gives flavour and bitterness to this most precious of popular foods: beer. (applause) the truth lies not only in wine, but also in beer. this is particularly important for bavaria, the land of my birth, where this product, this commodity, has played an important role both in terms of historical development and employment. white beer is obviously a very special variety of beer; she's well known in munich and is liked by many people. hops could grow quickly anywhere, but it is also up to very special individuals to provide the necessary care, so that hops can be grown successfully. there are also some interesting sayings on this subject: "like a twig and a tater-toe, so is a hop". in essence, this means that hops are a rather capricious fruit that rewards those who devote all their attention to it, but punishes those who neglect the work. another saying is: "the hops need a daily master". in short, hops are a fruit that requires a lot of work and will only thrive in the hands of the hardworking man. the area devoted to hop growing in our country has therefore been constantly increasing. in the heart of bavaria, in hallertau, a large hop growing area has been developing for over 150 years. it is in fact the largest hop region in the world, with a quarter of production coming from hallertau. you will understand why this subject is so dear to bavaria and to me as a bavarian. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to stress again that hops and hop beer evoke comfort and relaxation somewhere. hops also have medicinal properties. bavaria is known above all as the land of beer, but also as a region of tradition and progress. you have probably heard that tradition and progress are of particular importance in bavaria. the expression "leather panties and laptop" is also frequently used by the bavarian minister-president edmund stoiber. the bavarian region is not only famous for the annual oktoberfest in munich, but also for its high-tech industry. it is not for nothing that the world-renowned university of brewing engineering münchen-weihenstephan is also located in bavaria. from here, knowledge was exported around the world, particularly to china, russia and the united states, where it had a considerable influence on hop growing and beer production. that is why the saying is often heard: "god himself wants his share of the dough". this is also important in relation to the regulation proposed by the commission. i would like to add a few remarks, but i must limit myself to the time allotted to me. i now come to the rules of procedure and the report. the main purpose of this is to delete certain articles which have become obsolete because of the expiry of the time limits and the content of the common organisation of the market in hops. the detailed report will therefore no longer have to be submitted once a year but once every five years, since the council has fixed a flat-rate aid for a period of five years. i think this is a good idea, madam commissioner, with one objection. the experience gained by bavaria in this field is undoubtedly what is urging us to be more cautious. that is why i propose that data on the evolution of the area under cultivation, demand, variety distribution, price and crop trends in each member state should continue to be collected annually and made available to operators each year. i have obtained a promise from the commission that this data will be made available on the internet. that is why i have tabled two amendments. i ask parliament to approve them. i know, however, that the commission does not view these two amendments very favourably. but parliament is not really the commission. i therefore call for these amendments to be adopted. (laughter and applause)
the rapporteur. - mr president, three weeks ago i invited my colleagues to a beer tasting. all those who received the information and participated in the tasting were very pleased. (laughter)
commission. - (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr xaver mayer, for his valuable work - and perhaps especially for his enthusiastic presentation of the hops paradise of bavaria. i also thank the committee on agriculture and rural development for its constructive attitude. i am glad that our proposal to reorganise the hop market has been well received. the commission proposal is designed to remove provisions which are no longer valid either because the time limits for their application have expired or because of previous changes in our common organization of the market in hops. these amendments must be made before the basic provision is consolidated. since the council has decided that the level of aid will be constant for five years, the commission does not consider it necessary to produce an annual report on the situation of hop production and sales. the commission therefore considers that article 11 can be deleted. however, under article 18, we will present a thorough assessment of this situation by 1 september 2000. i am therefore afraid that the two amendments proposed by parliament will unnecessarily complicate the text, and i think that the requirement for annual information is already covered by the new proposal. this information will also be available on the internet. in these circumstances, the commission has every reason to reject these two amendments.
- (de) mr president, first of all, i would like to invite the commissioner to kloster andechs in bavaria. there are seven different kinds of beer brewed here. secondly, i would like to announce... the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tajikistan is not only the poorest of the former soviet states, it is also the one which has suffered the most during the last five years from the chaos caused by tribal strife, before it finally degenerated into civil war. the country did not understand that it had to use the financial assistance granted so far for the intended purpose. only in recent months has there been a return to some calm, after the belligerents suspended hostilities and decided to form a coalition government in the near future. parliamentary elections are scheduled for march 2000. international donors, including swiss organizations, are again ready to provide this financial aid under certain conditions. after the calm has returned and the development prospects have become relatively more favourable, the savary report now tries to give the country the financial aid in question again in the form of a loan. with this measure, we hope that tajikistan will receive a clear signal to improve the organisation of the state in the direction of democratic development and to undertake the necessary reforms. however, this financial assistance in the form of a loan should be granted only under several conditions: that the european union can effectively carry out a proper control of the financial assistance, that the process of national reconciliation continues and that the elections, and especially the legislative elections in march 2000, are organised in a free and democratic manner. as mr savary has very rightly pointed out, this is also the aim of amendments nos 8 and 9, which seem to us to be quite explicit. if tajikistan's solvency and soundness were to be restored, this proposal in the 2000 budget should also be welcomed. the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, has just confirmed to me that a commentary should be included to the report, stating that financial aid can again be granted in some form under the tacis programme. in conclusion, let me add that the epp-ed group supports this report, despite all the risks involved. this is a new and potentially successful attempt to relaunch and encourage economic and technical cooperation with tajikistan.
- (de) mr president, if the tajik people did not exist, i would not be standing before you today. during world war i, my grandfather was taken prisoner and sent to what was then russian central asia to build railroads. he always told me that he was able to survive those difficult years only because of the hospitality and helpfulness of the tajik people. but that is not why i am investing so much in tajikistan today. because, unlike my colleague mr blokland, i think this is a matter of direct concern to us. tajikistan is located in a territorial space bounded by china and russia, which meet here, as well as the islamic world and the caspian sea, where there are huge deposits of raw materials. i believe that we are dealing here with a balkan of the future, a balkan on a global scale. it is therefore in our interest to stabilise the region and prevent ethnic conflicts from spreading to the rest of the world, especially when we know that a number of nuclear powers live there. that is why i think it is necessary to help tajikistan to take this perilous path by granting a loan, but also by granting loans which are likely not to be repaid, while knowing full well that we will have to turn to the member states, since our budget does not allow us to do so. we should of course demand the development of democracy and the rule of law, but we must avoid imposing inappropriate revenue on them. for centuries, tajikistan's wealth was plundered by colonial powers. it was under communist rule for 80 years. today, this small mountain people is trying to find its way and we cannot impose european recipes on them. we must advocate measures comparable to those adopted in relation to developing countries, including african countries, where many things are still highly questionable, but which we have been helping for decades to find the way to democracy. tajikistan has only been receiving our aid for a few years. we must therefore demand that certain rules be observed, while at the same time showing patience towards the tajik people. we should therefore massively encourage the elections to be held in the spring and recognize that this is not only an event that is a credit to europe, but that it is also in europe's very special interest to contribute to the emergence of peace in this region.
- (de) mr president, as we approach the christmas period, i would like you to give me a little time! i'd like to thank you and clear up a misunderstanding. the president shall have the right to authorise a member to put a question to the commission. i wanted to ask the commissioner a question and also to answer a question which you had addressed to mr mayer: i just wanted to say that a great tasting of bavarian beer will be held next spring in the courtyard of the parliament in strasbourg. (applause) i would like to thank
