i would like to congratulate you warmly, mr president, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament. we know that you are a very fair and capable president and we want to work with you in the future to bring about all internal reforms. for example, the statute for members is now a very important issue. i also want to congratulate you personally on being the first woman to lead this house in a long time. i have had very good cooperation with you in the conciliation committees and we know that you will be an extremely good president. our common task now is to represent the citizens of europe here so that they too can have a say in the affairs of the european union. congratulations again.
mr president, first of all, i would like to congratulate you on the excellent result of yesterday's elections. the challenges of the german presidency, ladies and gentlemen, are a good illustration of the complex and diverse world in which we live. the spring was dominated by the tragic events in kosovo and the news that the yugoslav authorities had accepted the kosovo peace plan, brought to the cologne summit by the president of finland, martti ahtisaari, was a great relief. the eu now has a major responsibility for the resumption of reconstruction and stabilisation. the situation in the western balkans clearly demonstrates the need for more effective action in europe to ensure stability on the continent. the enlargement of the union to the countries of central and eastern europe is central to this. the undeniable achievement of the german presidency is the agreement on agenda 2000, which is essential for enlargement. it is important that the finnish presidency gives a clear demonstration of the eu's determination to move forward in the enlargement process. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the german presidency and the finnish presidency, which has just begun, are shadowed by an administrative crisis which culminated in the commission's resignation. we certainly all hope that the crisis will be the real beginning of a genuine reform of the way of doing things, not only in the commission but also in the council and in parliament. but it must be remembered that we cannot move forward without a new commission capable of acting. the european parliament must of course exercise its right of consultation and control fully in relation to the eu institutions, including the commission, but it must also be aware of its responsibility in this important context to ensure that the new commission can start its work as soon as possible. we must be particularly careful that national political passions do not override the common european interest. unfortunately, i think there have been some signs of such an effort in this debate. the citizens of the european union, our own citizens, who showed a worrying lack of action in the european elections, want the union to improve employment above all. good employment is also essential for the balanced development of our societies. the cologne european employment pact must therefore be put into practice. it is also important to pay attention to the coordination of economic policies between the governments of the various eu member states and to develop measures to this end. it is essential to improve employment.
mr president, on behalf of the green group, i would like to express my deep disappointment at the way in which the socialist group has handled this matter. i think it is morally wrong that the greens/european free alliance group was not elected, and i hope that the social democrats will reflect on this among themselves.
i would like to thank mr halos, the finnish foreign minister, for his excellent report on the programme for the finnish presidency of the european union. as the finnish presidency of the council, finland is preparing the european union for the new millennium with a very balanced programme. it is important to stress, as the foreign minister made clear in his speech, that the internal reform of the union and the strengthening of civil societies throughout europe will be the cornerstones of the future development of the eu. the emphasis on these objectives is also particularly evident in the presidency's programme. the finnish presidency's slogan, an open and strong europe for the new millennium, reflects the union's urgent need for reform. the citizens' europe must be built by emphasising the principle of openness and proximity of the eu institutions. the enormous challenges of the future, such as the economic changes brought about by the single currency, the enlargement of the union to the east and the fight against international crime, will need to be supported by more effective eu institutions. it is positive that finland has started with concrete proposals. the wording of declarations will not bring about the changes that are needed now. tragedies such as the crisis in kosovo and, more generally, in the whole of the former yugoslavia show that the peace and stability brought about by european integration does not extend far beyond the external borders of the union. the necessary conclusions must be drawn from this in order to strengthen the union's crisis management capacity as soon as possible. the eu must be able to ensure that it has an effective non-military toolkit at its disposal in the future, both to prevent crises and to extinguish fires that have already broken out. it is particularly positive that these targets are high. the economic, social and political reconstruction of the western balkans must be given a good boost during finland's presidency. the challenge is so enormous that it requires a special ability on the part of the presidency to keep the threads of the overlapping processes tightly in its hands. finland shall ensure that the funds allocated are used efficiently. no bridge can be repaired, no school can be built by over-managing reconstruction projects. the financing of reconstruction should take account of the use of local resources. this will help to revive business in the war-torn areas, create jobs and promote the development of trade relations with neighbouring regions and the union. the union's employment problem must not be solved at kosovo's expense by creating new offices. aid money must be directed where it is needed most. the enlargement of the union to the east requires the unwavering support of the citizens of the union. the union must make sure that the worst bottleneck for enlargement is not the lack of capacity of the eu itself. ensuring the functioning of the internal market and strengthening the internal security of the union are important keys to a successful enlargement to the east. the tampere summit, which will focus on asylum and refugee policy issues and the fight against organised crime, must be expected to come up with concrete proposals for measures to improve internal security. the concept of the northern dimension of the union, which is coming to the fore, has several aspects relating to the internal security of the eu, including nuclear and environmental security, and the neighbourhood dimension. these ideas from the northern dimension of the union also need to be translated into concrete action programmes. (applause) i would like to thank the
the beginning of finland's first presidency of the european union is a moment of great change. the new parliament will be set up with the new powers conferred by the treaty of amsterdam, the old commission, which left office mid-term, is expected to be replaced by a new commission, and the council is preparing to reform its working methods. it is an undeniable fact that we cannot regain the citizens' confidence in the union's decision-making without reforms in the way we operate, and this applies to all institutions: the commission, the council and parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. the reform of the union's institutions is also a key issue in finland's presidency programme, as minister halonen said in his speech. we are particularly pleased to note the effort made in the programme to reform the council's working methods. the development of open council meetings, improved access to documents and the publication of the dates and agendas of meetings of the councils and working parties will make a concrete contribution to the principle of transparency. in accordance with the decisions of the cologne european council, finland is leading the preparations for convening the intergovernmental conference. the aim should be to reach a conference which will produce a new agreement which will make enlargement possible and create the conditions for the union to function effectively also after enlargement. however, it must be said that even during this part-session, obstacles have been thrown in the way of the effective functioning of the union. i cannot help but be surprised by the attempt of the right-wing group in this parliament to postpone the appointment of the commission by invoking the report of the independent group of experts. i will say quite frankly that such tactics will undermine the success of the finnish presidency. we must do everything we can to speed up the preparation of the report and its proper examination in the european parliament, but we cannot surrender the legal rights of the parliament to an informal body of inquiry and its timetable. we also need to strengthen the union's credibility in order to be able to deal fully with the serious problems for which we are responsible, the most urgent of which is the implementation of the timetable for the reconstruction of kosovo. that is the beginning of our work to strengthen regional stability throughout the balkan region. the strong contribution of finnish president martti ahtisaari to the kosovo solution shows that even a non-aligned country can successfully represent the common vision of the whole union. a functioning union is a prerequisite for successfully completing the enlargement process, which is also under way in the countries of central and eastern europe. the starting point must be adherence to uniform criteria for membership, which means striving for truthfulness also when talking about the enlargement timetable. finland has rightly stressed that the enlargement process must also have an impact on european development in the fields of environmental protection and social protection. the aim should be to integrate sustainable development and environmental protection into all community policies, which implies obligations not only for future but also for current member states. the enlargement process can be facilitated by strengthening cooperation in the regions adjacent to the union. the union's policy on the northern dimension covers, among other things, baltic sea cooperation, but it also supports the implementation of the agreed russia strategy. the key issue for reform is the strengthening of genuine crossborder cooperation. the immediate challenge for the union is also to achieve economic and monetary union in a way that creates the conditions for job creation. in conclusion, i would like to wish the finnish presidency the very best of luck in implementing its reform programme. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr. speaker, madam secretary, i have to go. as the minister did in part of his speech, i too will use the second national language of finland. the finnish presidency's programme of action contains no major surprises; it is balanced and addresses the union's main challenges. the programme actually addresses the issues that previous summits have assumed we would solve in helsinki. i am very pleased that the minister has so frankly raised the problems of the work of the council of ministers. i think that they have been discussed too little and that we have many problems to solve. that is why many things have been deferred to finland's presidency. we are right to emphasize in the programme a strong and open europe. a strong europe is a europe where the institutions are strong, not where a few strong men are solving europe's problems. unfortunately, we have seen a tendency for the issues to be solved not within the institutions but outside them by individuals. it's not in the spirit of monet. i hope that the finnish presidency will succeed in its emphasis on the eu acting with a common voice for a common policy and with a common will. a strong union is also one that can bring stability to our neighbourhood. it is therefore important to have a comprehensive and clear preaccession strategy covering countries such as albania and macedonia, by means of a successful enlargement and also by building a credible crisis management. despite all the efforts to achieve stability, there are still risks that the flows of refugees will increase. on this point, i think that the finnish programme could have been more ambitious, especially in the light of the kosovo crisis. we must not again find ourselves lacking in the ability to solve the problem of burden sharing. finally, i would like to say that i sincerely hope that minister halonen, who is himself aware of the situation in slovakia, will work to combat discrimination there, as elsewhere, for example against the roma.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to welcome you to the european parliament. i promise that the green group/european free alliance will do its best to cooperate very closely and well with our institution. it cannot be stressed enough that finland is beginning its presidency in rather difficult circumstances. we must have a functioning commission in place by september, and the green group will do everything possible to ensure that the procedure here in parliament is as substantial as possible, albeit thorough. i'm sure that's what we all want. mr foreign minister, you said that the kosovo crisis could be a turning point in the european union's common foreign and security policy. my group's view is that the european union should strengthen its common foreign and security policy, but we hope that finland, as a militarily neutral member state, will emphasise the non-military dimension of crisis management. it is clear that in today's world human rights must be defended, sometimes by force of arms, but if we want to act wisely and avoid enormous human and economic suffering and destruction, we must act in the long term and use non-military means of crisis management. our group would like to remind you that in the spring the european parliament adopted a report proposing the creation of a non-military peacekeeping force in the european union. we are surprised that there was not much talk at the cologne summit about these non-military means, and we hope that they will be brought up more vigorously during the finnish presidency. the european union is large enough to have an impact on world developments. the finnish presidency will prepare the forthcoming world trade negotiations. it is of the utmost importance that these negotiations be prepared in an open spirit. we have seen in the past how civil society wants to be involved in this debate. i now turn to what happened to the multilateral investment treaty. i believe that you want to ensure that civil society can engage openly with policy-makers when discussing the relationship between free trade, human health and environmental protection. our group would like to emphasize that finland has a significant potential during its presidency to take the european union towards a social and ecological union. we will give you all our support to finally get the energy tax directive passed. it's been seven years in the making. i think we're all getting a little impatient about it, with the decision making being so difficult. at the same time, of course, we must strengthen the competitiveness of labour. it is possible to reduce indirect labour costs across the european union, for example, so that new jobs can be created and economic activity can be generated. finally, i would like to stress that the tampere summit must not become an occasion for increased police action and citizen control. it also has to promote the fundamental rights of citizens and also improve the situation of all third-country nationals legally resident in the member states of the european union. all this must be done in a spirit of openness. we also expect the commission to take action as soon as possible to facilitate the work of the finnish presidency in order to increase transparency by providing parliament and the council with a communication on the publication of documents. (applause) i would like to thank the
finland has the right objective, mr president, and the eu must become more transparent. the eu's finance ministers, led by finland, have decided from the outset that the eu must speak with one voice on emu. as a result, the eu's monetary policy is now silenced in eleven languages. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year. finland is a non-aligned country not belonging to nato. but finland should be more credible when it does not want the eu to have a common defence. we must not give in to the former social democrats and green pacifists, schröder, fischer, blair, d'alemà and solana, who want more arms for europe and more nato. nato is now also an offensive alliance. finland's task is to preserve the freedom of eu member states to remain non-aligned. this objective is undermined by the principle that the eu should have a common will, a common policy and a common voice. the 70% of finns who did not vote in the european parliament elections were opposed to this objective.
mr president, the finnish presidency of the council will deal with a number of important issues. the programme for the finnish presidency shows that finland intends to carry out its most important tasks effectively. for my part, i would like to make two points: the council's most important tasks for the future of the union are linked to enlargement on the one hand and the development of the union's decision-making system on the other. these two tasks are interlinked. the large-scale enlargement on the horizon requires a bold reform of the decision-making system. the union, which is developing to pan-european dimensions, can only be effective if it develops more as a union of independent states than as a federation. this will be taken into account when the mandate of the next igc is drawn up. the mandate must be designed to change the union's decision-making system to meet the needs of the whole of enlargement to the east, not just the needs of the accession of five or six countries. in this case, the work cannot be confined to details which were omitted from the amsterdam treaty. the union's direction must be changed. the trend towards a centralised american federal model must be stopped and a move towards a decentralised union, the swiss federal model being the main model. the swiss system is often called the federal system. only a union which develops in this direction can enlarge in accordance with existing plans. the mandate of the jrc must therefore be broadly defined so that it can also address the fundamentals of the union's decision-making system. my second request is for the northern dimension. finland should, during its presidency, seek to accelerate the development of the northern dimension. the next important step is to develop the northern dimension as part of the union's internal policy. the northern dimension means that the conditions of the northern regions are taken into account in all the union's decision-making.
mr. speaker, this was a rather sad end to a glorious career. bangemann was a determined and skilful commissioner, like a steam train, and sometimes in debates he would throw us members of parliament like cod on the dock, but what the heck. the important thing is that this example does not spill over into the civil service and gain more popularity there. the fairness of our administration is of the utmost importance to all of us, both here and in the commission. the bureaucracy of the european institutions really needs to be reformed and this kind of coup d'état must be stopped. it is the most hated thing in the european union. we saw it in the election, in the campaign. the people of this country do not understand this kind of government, which should not surprise us. the prodi commission is on a good footing, and i congratulate it on that, but it must continue in the same style. i thank the council for its decision to refer the matter to the court of justice of the european communities quickly, but since we must be transparent and effective in our approach to administration, the prod commission will be put to the test in the autumn. i believe that at the end of the year we will look at the commission's achievements in terms of administrative reform, both in its own administration and in that of its civil servants, on the basis of a study by five experts. i mean, at the turn of the year, you meet these leather bear.
- (fi) madam president, mr president-elect of the commission, you have just outlined your vision of what the task of the european union should be. you spoke of sustainable development, peace and stability. mr. prodi, you may not be one of the great expressionist painters, but i believe your quiet claw can bring good results. you also mentioned east timor and we expect europe to take full responsibility for this. the commission's hearings in parliament were not a vain event or a worthless spectacle, they were very necessary and you yourself rightly told us last week that in no other parliament had the executive body had to provide such detailed reports. this could perhaps serve as a model for the relations between other parliaments and the executive bodies. this commission cannot unilaterally ally itself with the council, as the previous commission has unfortunately often done. my group does not share the view of those who would like the commission to be a kind of secretariat of the council. no, i'm not going. the commission is a political institution and it is now clear that it also has a political responsibility towards the european parliament. in order to be able to trust your commission until 2005, we must first establish what this new spirit will mean in practice in relations between parliament and the commission, and we are still waiting for some explanations. my group stresses the individual political responsibility of each member of the commission and we take very seriously your promise to look carefully at a justified dissatisfaction of parliament with an individual member of the commission. the president of the commission also undertakes to use his power if any member of the commission is suspected of or is being investigated for abuse or misconduct. mr prodi, one thing must be emphasized: your commission still has too few women and this must be seen now so that we can learn something from it for the next time. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. we need concrete measures. when we negotiate a new agreement between parliament and the commission, we must ensure that the negotiations with parliament also cover the candidates for the posts of commissioner. the procedure adopted was clearly too restrictive. my group also asks that the amendments to the legislative process, which have been tabled by a large majority in parliament, be included in the commission's proposals. we also appreciate that you have promised to take parliament's legislative initiatives seriously. we also ask that in the new reform of the institutions parliament should be involved in the negotiating process with a completely different weight than it has had so far. we will also ensure that all european civil society is involved in this process, as the next reform of the institutions will also have to guarantee stronger rights for european citizens. we were not satisfied with the way in which parliament was able to participate in international agreements. we are asking that in the negotiations with the wto, for example, parliament be consulted at all levels of the negotiations. mr prodi, everyone is talking about glasnost, everyone is talking about transparency and i believe you are speaking about it sincerely, but the hearings have not convinced me that the commissioner-designate, or you, the future president of the commission, have understood what the word 'transparency' really means, glasnost. it must not remain a mere slogan. our first task is to draft a regulation on transparency, which is required by the amsterdam treaty. this is necessary not only to keep parliament informed but also to enable citizens and civil society as a whole to take action with a newfound urgency on the development of the european union.
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners-designate, i must say that in a certain way i am sorry for you. what awaits you, since we are all so anxious to see you take up the task and begin working with you, is not the state of grace to which our new colleagues and newly established bodies are usually entitled. i have a generally positive opinion of your programme and the views you have expressed today and in recent weeks. however, i would like you to consider three points. i have the impression that the code of conduct adopted for the new commission has something of the 'emperor's new clothes': what distinguishes it from the rules already applicable to the old commission? this code is not an unwavering piece of legislation; the rules that make it up take no account of citizens or their rights. so where are the strict rules and the democratic perspective? mr prodi has also used the term glasnost today. as a finn, i know a number of the jokes that are common in russia. there are those where you imagine the various presidents and soviet leaders traveling on a train. the story ends precisely with gorbachev and the word glasnost. the sign of glasnost is that nothing happens - everything is pure transparency. i do not think that we can speak of a kind of glasnost atmosphere for the future of europe, since the word means that nothing is happening. thirdly, i would draw your attention to the need to monitor your advisory team closely. because if you keep the team that advised the previous commission, there is a risk that the same mistakes will be made again, for example in relation to relations with parliament. we must shake up the closest advisers of our commission colleagues! i would like to conclude by saying a few words to mr swoboda. i fully agreed with him when he said that in future we would have to be careful about how we judge individual commissioners. we have not succeeded in this with the previous commission. the commission has been particularly hard on the commissioners representing small countries. this is not a particularly honourable way of exercising our duty of control over the responsibility of commissioners.
- (fi) mr president, mr president-elect of the commission, if we are to be optimistic and confident about the future, we can see that we are in an ideal situation. we now have every opportunity to steer eu activities in a better direction which at the same time increases citizens' confidence. we have a new commission which, in the course of the hearings, has committed itself to developing the union's activities in a more transparent, efficient and comprehensible way. we also heard during the hearings of the commissioners-designate that the commission will include sector leaders who have committed themselves to working closely with the european parliament. the commission, as a body, has assured, through its president, that it is ready for genuine reforms. we still remember very well the severe warning that the european citizens gave us in june during the european elections. we cannot go on like this, the union must quickly undertake reforms which will help to bring the modes of action and structures of all the union's institutions into the new millennium. the commission must keep pace with the member states and adapt to the reality of citizens. mrs roth-behrendt has drawn attention to a very important point here: in choosing its priorities and making them public, the commission must really have in mind the real concerns of citizens, such as environmental issues, sustainable development and all that this entails, and the need for consumer protection. i would also like to add equality of citizens and social equality. although i said that we have all the possibilities to improve things, i fear that we are not taking advantage of this opportunity. the question is whether the future commission is capable of carrying out fundamental reforms instead of simply covering up the real problems with a policy of re-plotting. we cannot afford such a policy and i am sure that real reforms will be carried out, which is why i wish the future commission a long life.
- (fi) mr president, mr prodi rightly mentioned in his speech today how important cooperation relations are to the union. he spoke of the need for rapprochement with the united states, with the mediterranean area and even with religions. perhaps i misheard, but i did not hear him speak about the northern dimension of the union, the area extending from the barents sea to the baltic states and poland, through northern russia and, on the other hand, from scandinavia to northern germany. this region has the longest border between the union and the applicant countries, and the only border with the great european state of russia. i hope that the commission will pay attention to the problems of this area and to the opportunities it offers. i also hope that the strategy towards russia will be constantly renewed, even though i know that russia, with its scandals and problems, is really a major question mark today. the report of the independent expert group shows that the structures of the eu and the commission have become, over the years, confused and obscure as regards responsibilities and power relations. commissioner kinnock will have a truly herculean job when he continues the structural reforms undertaken by his predecessor, mr liikanen. i wish him well and i expect results. mr prodi has asked for more glasnost. that is quite right when it comes to relations with parliament and i support that request. it will be remembered, however, that the soviet union under gorbachev fell apart because of too much glasnost and too little perestroika. the best translation of the word perestroika is "to build a new house on a proven foundation". the soviet union deserved to disappear, and that is not what i wish for the european union. i hope that the prodi commission will also take an interest in perestroika in the union, because only then will it be able to make progress on the essential issues and be able to 'build a new house on a proven basis'.
the rapporteur, mr president, would like to begin by welcoming you, madam minister, to the european parliament and to the plenary session. i would also like to thank commissioner liikanen for his very good cooperation. your cooperation with parliament has been open, frank and honest. my report concerns the administrative expenditure of the 2000 budget for the institutions other than the commission and the council. the total budget of these institutions is eur 1.288 million. the increase over last year is 3.66%. it is important even if it remains within the existing interinstitutional framework. the european parliament's budget exceeds the share of the gentleman's agreement concluded by parliament itself, which is 20% of category 5, because it is currently 20.3%. this naturally means that pressure will be put on the budget to make cuts. in the last period the european parliament has maintained a high degree of discipline in budgetary policy. the staff policy of the institutions has been very conservative, which has meant that the increase in staff numbers has been small over the past five years. from 1995 to 1999, the number of staff in the parliament increased by 11 and in the court by 11 persons. the court of auditors experienced a significant increase in human resources in 1997, with 49 new staff. the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions have been enlarged by a total of 10 members. this was achieved by a sound personnel policy and by a redistribution of duties. so we have a good tradition to follow. this development, which was intended to save taxpayers' money, is however threatened with change. the various institutions would like to see significant job creation. in this respect, the importance of the example set by the european parliament should be particularly emphasized. if the european parliament wants to increase its staff considerably, that will send a clear signal to the other institutions. the same can be said about promotions. that is why the european parliament will have to decide, when it examines this budget, what disciplinary staff policy it wants to respect, because it has very great powers in this matter. i would like to stress that the european parliament cannot, in this case, avoid its responsibility towards the other eu institutions. my predecessor in this role, mrs edith müller, created the concept of activity-based budgeting. in short, parliament would direct funds, at once, to the institutions for administration, and each institution could decide for itself on the structure of its staff, the arrangement of the pay scales and the increases in the pay scales. i strongly support this idea. in reality, the activity-based budget is the only sensible way of developing the staff policy of the various institutions. it is not very sensible for the committee on budgets and the conference of presidents to discuss the creation of a c-post when there are 1 776 c-posts in the european parliament. it is much clearer to discuss appropriations and to allocate them without detailing them in a particular way. this view is in line with the group's conception. it emphasizes the need for personal accountability, as well as economic accountability, at the lowest level of the administrative machine. the only way to emphasize this responsibility, improve administration and improve control of the treasury is to delegate power and responsibility downwards. at the same time, a major improvement can be made on a burning problem, namely the slow pace of eu payments. it is unacceptable and regrettable that it takes months or even years for the various institutions in the european union to pay their bills, while the member states can get by in about a month. there is no reason why the eu should need longer payment deadlines than member states or companies whose budgets can be tens of times larger than the eu's. the development of personnel policy must be seen as an important part of eu policy. however, a budget based on activities, the distribution of appropriations and responsibility down the administrative machinery, the effective control of financial transactions, and the emphasis on personal responsibility require a great deal of work. these issues will have to be clearly taken into account when the staff rules are reformed in the coming years. that is why we can strongly support the council's request that the commission should start preparing new rules on staff as soon as possible. it is with these thoughts that i would like to send the council's draft budget to the european parliament for its consideration.
counsel. - (fi) madam president, you have already expressed our sorrow to all of us about the plane crash which affected the greek delegation, but i would like to tell you the deep pain that has come over me today when i learned of the death of one of my good colleagues and of several other people. i'd like to ask you to convey my condolences. i would like to thank you for giving me the opportunity today to speak to you about the agenda and the preparatory work of the extraordinary european council in tampere. at the tampere european council we want to take a big step towards a union which will offer the people living in its territory a genuine area of freedom, justice and security. this is a logical and necessary step in the development of the union. we have built an internal market in which people, goods, services and capital can move freely. we will soon be using a common currency which will enhance our well-being for all. secondly, we must ensure that every citizen of the union has the genuine right to move freely and at the same time to be equally safe throughout the union. the union must, in accordance with the treaty of amsterdam, become a homogeneous area in which people and economic operators can fully enjoy their rights. at tampere we will have to define the future political orientations of our cooperation, commit ourselves to some concrete joint actions, and ensure that the pillars are not an obstacle to our activities which we want to be effective. the union's greatest successes so far have been based on adopting the community method. the last time it showed its strength was when the internal market was created. it can also be helpful now. the laws of the member states must be approximated without prejudice and harmonized. we must create common minimum rules and adapt the principle of mutual recognition. i believe that we can achieve a great deal by removing the technical, administrative and legal obstacles to cooperation. what i have just said may seem to be of little importance, but in practice this is precisely the obstacle we must succeed in overcoming. i firmly believe that if we were to ask the citizens of the member states what they want, they would say that they want the union to work more effectively and more resolutely to strengthen their rights and their security. the increase in internal security requires a much more homogeneous and logical policy, also in the union's external relations. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. i would also like to point out that the union will be enlarged in the near future. we must bear in mind that this geographical area, which we call the union, will be enlarged in the years to come. cooperation in the fields of internal affairs and justice must be developed with the applicant countries so that we can achieve together the objectives we have set for the union's policy. external relations must be seen as a whole in which the regions close to the union, north, east and south, have their own equal share in politics. before going into the details of the tampere agenda, i would like to remind you that although i am in a meeting of the european parliament, fortunately we are not alone in europe. we also have the council of europe and the osce, which have a glorious tradition and a great deal of know-how in this field. i hope that we will also keep them in mind when we develop this cooperation. i intend to speak to you today about the agenda of the tampere european council and the preparatory work. i would like to focus on some of the key objectives that the president has before the meeting. i would also like to receive from you some suggestions for further preparation of the meeting, since we still have the opportunity to do so. first, therefore, the tampere agenda: the tampere european council will focus on three main themes: immigration and asylum policy, the fight against crossborder crime and the european legal area. the treaty of amsterdam gave clearer objectives to legal and internal affairs. the decision-making procedures we have and the instruments we can use for acts are now effective and the position of the community institutions is stronger. the president's position is that the new instruments must now be fully exploited. the european council in vienna last december put before us an excellent action plan which sets out the timetable for our work in the near future. there is therefore no need to draw up a new action plan in tampere. we hope that the tampere meeting will provide us with political milestones and commitments whose need can be understood by the citizens of the various countries. we will, throughout, pay particular attention to human rights and transparency, which are an essential part of the basis of freedom, security and the legal area. i would like to point out that human rights must apply to everyone living in the territory of the union, without any exclusion. i would like to point out that when we respect the rights of minorities, we not only respect their rights and dignity, but at the same time we also increase the stability of society and, therefore, the security of all citizens. i would then like to speak a little more in detail about immigration and asylum policy, which i know the ministers of the interior and justice have already discussed here. in my view, all people who are staying in the territory of the union and those who are seeking to come to it have a right to security. one of the key objectives of the tampere european council should be for the union to agree on the creation of a homogeneous immigration and asylum policy. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of asylum seekers are respected. what should it be based on? it should be based in particular on the geneva general agreement on refugees and article 63 of the agreement with the union. the aim is to provide a high and as homogeneous level of protection as possible for those who need it. we must aim for a common european asylum area in which minimum rules and common procedures will be respected. this will make the system simpler, clearer and faster, which will be good for people. at the same time, we must of course be very careful at all times that this does not endanger human rights. we must remember that asylum is an individual right. the kosovo crisis has shown that it is high time for the union to agree on the sharing of responsibilities and on the principles to be respected in the event of provisional protection. the union must be prepared to provide rapid protection in emergency situations involving crowds. the granting of provisional protection is based on the will of the person in need of protection, as well as on the will of the receiving state and on the capacity to bear responsibility. i believe that we will get results in tampere on this subject. in my view, it would be logical if, in emergency situations involving crowds, funds from the community budget, or any other common financing, could be used to provide economic compensation. in this way, solidarity between member states would be more naturally realized. secondly, the reasons for immigration and the fight against illegal immigration must be uniformised. the rights and duties of foreigners legally resident in the member states must be ensured in a more uniform manner. in my view, it is quite conceivable that an immigrant who has been legally resident in the territory of the union for a certain period of time should have rights which can be compared with those of the citizens of the country in question. the most important thing for the immigrant would certainly be to have information about social services and rights related to political activities. we have had some experience in a few countries. i would also like to speak about border controls in the union. since this matter concerns us, as the union's presidency, we have of course examined it a little more closely. the union's border control must be developed, on the basis of the schengen rules, in a more balanced and homogeneous way. with the next enlargement, the borders of the union will be further modified and the significance of effective control will increase, both from the point of view of the safety of citizens and their free movement. the most important thing is to focus on activities that prevent illegal immigration without endangering the right to asylum. the amsterdam treaty provides new possibilities for the formulation of a return policy. i believe that these possibilities must now be fully exploited. it could be decided at tampere that community agreements and mixed agreements logically contain clauses on return. in some cases, the union should endeavour to enter into negotiations in order to obtain return agreements. the treaty of amsterdam also presupposes the establishment of return arrangements between the member states of the community. the union must also provide active assistance to those who wish to return to their countries. we must examine what means are available. i would like to give an example: the use of development aid could be a way of softening the possibilities of return. the union's immigration and asylum policy must be a logical part of the current more homogeneous external relations policy. we must focus our attention on the conditions in the countries from which the majority of asylum seekers and immigrants come. the union may endeavour to respond to the situation by various measures of cooperation in the fields of foreign and security policy, development cooperation, economic cooperation and migration policy. the union must also have a better capacity to respond to different crisis situations. the report of the council's high-level working party which has studied this whole set of things is going to be circulated to parliament in the coming days. i would then like to turn to the fight against crossborder crime. the creation of an area of justice and security will only be possible if those who abuse the freedom that comes with it are brought under control. technical, administrative and legislative obstacles which make cooperation between authorities difficult must be removed. a concrete step which i think could be taken in tampere would be to agree on the possibility of using international investigation teams. the authorities would thus be given the power to act across the borders of the member states, in cooperation with local authorities, to clarify specific cases. europol is an important instrument of this cooperation. it must be given the resources it needs to get started and the political support it needs. then there is the need to look more closely at the expansion of its activities. in tampere, europol's remit should be extended to include money laundering offences. the european council could also entrust the council with the task of preparing legislation obliging member states to respond to requests for information and assistance from europol. the enlargement of europol's powers which i want must be complemented by legal and political control. these must be balanced. i also hope that the time has come to recognise that there are types of crime in which we could intervene effectively by approximating the criminal codes of the member states. i don't want to be too ambitious in these things. i know there would be a lot of work to be done, but i will list some of the most important points. the european council in tampere could identify, for example, trafficking in women and children, child pornography, money laundering, counterfeiting of the euro, and the protection of new crossborder technology activities. these are the proposals from finland. in the fight against crime, efforts must be made to prevent crime. opportunities for crime must be combated and the ease and attractiveness of crime reduced. the aim, of course, is to reduce the risk of crime, especially among young people. in this way we will secure our future. particular attention should be paid to the situation of victims of crime as well as to that of persons suspected or accused of crimes. i would like to stress that both these areas of activity are necessary. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the rights of victims should be safeguarded in such a way as to guarantee them equal treatment, irrespective of member state, nationality and language. at tampere, the heads of state and government of our countries could also ask the commission to draw up a draft system which would guarantee, among other things, interpreters and legal aid in the various member states for persons suspected of and accused of crimes. i hope i haven't wasted too much time on these questions. i was minister of justice before, although i am here as minister of foreign affairs. let us now turn to the european legal area. when we talk about developing cooperation in legal and internal affairs, the emphasis is perhaps too easily placed on security-related activities. however, it is at least as important to consider how we can improve the rights of individuals in the european union. the creation of the internal market and the adoption of the euro have increased people-to-people relations in many ways. the consequences of this internationalisation are visible. more and more international marriages are being contracted, as people go to work, to study, to buy and sell goods and services, and to invest or borrow money across national borders. this has become a normal part of everyday life. due to various legal, administrative and technical obstacles, people continue to have great difficulties in exercising their rights fully. we know that the obstacles partly stem from the differences between national legal systems. we also know that the union has a northern system, a southern system and a common law system, so i do not underestimate the difficulties. we are still far from a homogeneous european territory, even though we are talking about issues that directly affect people's daily lives. the creation of a european legal area is, however, one of the most important challenges for the union in the coming years. citizens must be able to rely on the proper functioning of legal and administrative systems and on adequate legal protection wherever they move or stay in the union. the aim must be to guarantee fair treatment and basic legal protection. first, people must be able to know, without too much difficulty, the central factors that influence their legal status. they must also be given sufficient opportunities to exercise these rights in practice. this applies to both judicial and administrative authorities. procedures should not be too slow, too complex or too expensive. existing computer technology should be able to be used to the full. the heads of state or government could support consideration at union level of how to facilitate access to legal aid in the various member states and how to promote the creation of simplified dispute resolution bodies at national level. in my view, member states should take a constructive attitude in the recognition of judgments and decisions of the authorities of other member states. we all know how difficult this can be and how much publicity it can bring. judgments and decisions of the authorities must be capable of being recognised throughout the territory of the union. this would save unnecessary red tape and extra costs and demonstrate our confidence in our legal systems. i would remind you that we have already made important progress in certain areas (for example the revision of the brussels and lugano agreements). at tampere, the heads of government could commit themselves to making substantial progress on this issue. nor should we fear the harmonization of the civil and criminal codes, or at least the examination of them. the treaty of amsterdam opens up new possibilities in this field, both in terms of procedural and substantive law. we could have common minimum rules on certain matters such as the receipt of certificates, legal aid and other aspects of litigation in crossborder cases. secondly, i would venture to say that we could also look at what areas of property law, contract law and even family law we could make progress on. this would increase legal certainty. i know that the law is just an extension of culture. there are, of course, great cultural differences in this area, but nothing should prevent us from looking at ways of making people's daily lives easier. i have spoken very clearly in favour of closer cooperation and harmonization of legislation. i would also like to state emphatically that this must not lead to the abandonment of the characteristics of the different cultures. on the contrary, as i said, the legal system is part of the culture, it reflects the culture of each country. we must, in a way, appreciate and respect it. i would also like to point out, however, that we have agreed on certain common principles which we can apply in all the member states. at tampere we will also decide on the implementation of the decisions taken on the basis of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the internal examination of fundamental rights will, however, take place elsewhere, in a special body set up for the charter of fundamental rights and in which the european parliament has a strong contribution. a direct project to strengthen human rights is also the implementation of article 13 of the eu treaty. this article obliges the community to take measures against exclusion. i expect the new commission to take initiatives on the implementation of these measures as soon as possible. the german chancellor, mr schröder, and the finnish prime minister, mr lipponen, sent a joint letter to their counterparts in march, after which we visited the capitals of the member states to gather their ideas on the agenda of the meeting, as well as the points to be highlighted and the objectives. the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior, who you heard here, will begin their talks on the same subject tomorrow in turku. we will definitely be putting the tampere agenda on the table when we have heard the views of the other groups, which the prime minister will be taking into account when he visits the capitals at the end of the month. in preparing for the meeting, we will also use the results of the work of the high level group on asylum and immigration, as well as the european parliament's position papers. we also cooperate with the un. the contribution of unhcr and many non-governmental organisations has been significant. i think you want to know what i think about the involvement of the european parliament. the european parliament has already had a significant influence on the development of the tampere agenda. the finnish ministers of justice and the interior took part in an interparliamentary conference organised by the european parliament on 24 and 25 march on the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. they also discussed this subject with a committee of parliament at the beginning of september. i can assure you in advance that our conversation today will be important. i will pass your views on to the ministers of justice and the minister of the interior so that they can take them into account in their own discussions. the tampere meeting itself will be organised in accordance with the established traditions of the european councils. the meeting will be opened by an address by the president of the european parliament. in many non-governmental organisations, as well as in the media, there has long been the idea that whenever we talk about legal and internal affairs, we are, even in the union, a bit mysterious. now we must get rid of that impression. we are making decisions that will have a direct impact on the lives of citizens. it is therefore in line with democracy that decisions are taken in full transparency and that their contents are discussed, even passionately, but in such a way that everyone knows about them. i am quite ready to discuss this matter here. i promise to listen carefully and to answer you in the best way i can. i think we'll agree on a lot of things. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, almost a year ago the heads of state and government took the initiative of organizing an extraordinary meeting of the european council, mainly devoted to the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. this is therefore an act of the utmost importance, which will guide the union's action in the coming months. in this context it is essential that the european parliament, which has done a remarkable job this year, should make its voice heard after the resolution adopted at the april plenary session which established the political framework now needed. the resolution we are discussing today will also have the advantage of being adopted in time and therefore known at the informal meeting in turku which begins tomorrow. and the fact that you spoke simultaneously on the area of freedom, security and justice and on the charter of fundamental rights shows the inevitable political link between the two objectives. the area of freedom, security and justice must be based on a firm guarantee of respect for the rights linked to the realities of contemporary societies, which is perfectly in line with the open and innovative approach that parliament wants. the commission, for its part, fully supports this approach and will therefore be firmly committed to the drafting process of the charter and, mrs halonen, we will of course convey to the next commission your invitation for the commission to make specific proposals in this respect. the european parliament gives some indications of the most profound institutional reforms which will have to be taken into account when preparing the next intergovernmental conference. in this respect, we should not forget the possibilities offered by the new framework of the amsterdam treaty, particularly as regards democratic control and transparency, even though many changes remain to be made. the commission fully shares your view on the content of the area of freedom, security and justice that you want. we can already see some points of agreement. the importance to be attached to access to justice, the development of a coherent strategy on immigration and asylum, the protection of the weakest and most vulnerable groups and the strengthening of mechanisms used in the fight against organised crime. these are very sensitive issues and they will all require broad political consensus and strong political will if common solutions are to be found. as i have already said, the achievement of an area of freedom, security and justice is a fundamental objective for bringing the union closer to its citizens, and this is a matter of daily concern to the citizens of the union. it is therefore essential if we are to give even greater legitimacy to the construction of europe. in this sense, we cannot fail. the commission, like parliament, therefore hopes with confidence that the tampere meeting will give the impetus to move forward. the issues are extremely complex and sensitive and, as mrs halonen said, there are different political cultures to deal with the same phenomenon, but it is good that we are getting this started.
- (fi) madam president, i thank you, madam minister, for your very detailed report. the social democrats here in parliament want very much to participate, even at this stage, in the discussion of these important questions. the core of european cooperation is the removal of barriers to economic and cultural interaction. through the internal market we want to improve europe's ability to compete globally and thereby create the conditions for the well-being of its citizens. the free movement of persons also includes the danger of an increase in international crime, which is now one of the main concerns of citizens throughout europe. the increasing cooperation between member states also requires us to look at citizens' rights from a european perspective, which is broader than that of a single state. in this respect, it is important to emphasize the absence of exclusion and the realization of the rights of minorities. i would like to express my satisfaction with what mrs halonen said in her speech about the urgency of implementing article 13 of the treaty on european union and i also hope that the commission will take initiatives on this subject. the european council meeting in tampere on 15 and 16 october is a historic attempt to draw up a common european union policy to combat crossborder crime, to create a european legal area and to create a common immigration and asylum policy. the fundamental rights recognised by the amsterdam treaty, including the right of citizens to security, were one of the starting points of the meeting. the effective fight against crime requires closer cooperation between member states, which in practice means approximation of laws, as well as improved police cooperation and coordination of prosecution. it is also important to stress crime prevention, which is of course a much broader issue than a simple legal policy. the security of the free movement of citizens and the achievement of the provisions relating to it require the adoption of majority decisions in union legislation. in practical terms, this includes the implementation of the schengen agreement. by strengthening the role of the union in creating a european legal area and in the fight against international crime, we can dispel any suspicion about the intensification of european cooperation. our role is to show that this area is part of european cooperation and in this way we also respond to the concerns of the citizens. these questions also concern the post-enlargement period, i.e. the requirements to be imposed on the candidate countries. deepening cooperation also creates a basis for good interaction with the regions close to the union. clear, transparent and ethically sustainable activities must be the guiding principle of european decision-making, whether it is the union's internal administrative culture or the safeguarding of citizens' rights and security. we need the cooperation of the various actors to make these principles known to the citizens of the union. ngos have an important task. the fact that parliament is already discussing this important area now, well before the extraordinary summit in tampere, shows that the spirit of the amsterdam treaty is being fulfilled as intended. in accordance with the same principle, it is important to ensure equal representation of parliament and council as the union prepares to draw up the charter of fundamental rights of citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
- (fi) madam president, after the excellent report by mrs halonen, i would like to draw attention to the secret way in which the tampere meeting was prepared, which led last week to a grotesque incident, when the danish newspaper berlingske tidende published information that immigration from third countries would be curbed by means of intimidation or threats. a finnish television journalist who used very innocuous notes provided by a member of parliament on the tampere meeting was banned from entering the finnish parliament for an indefinite period by the secretary-general and the president of the finnish parliament. such a stifling of free communication and such a disconnection from civil society while preparing an area of security and justice suggests that this area is not as free, nor as transparent as our traditions would require. this suggests that a narrow and limited security, based in the last resort on repression, will put aside the civil liberties and fundamental rights that should be worked on here. finnish writer samuli paronen said: "the more efficient the security systems, the more vulnerable human beings become". ignorance is not a virtue, sometimes it can be a dubious blessing, but ignorance based on concealment has no place in a mature political system such as we should realize in the europe of citizens and individuals. it will also be possible to achieve a positive, humane and open immigration policy and asylum conditions which genuinely respect the geneva agreement and exclude all exclusion.
- (fi) madam president, democracy means that decisions are taken by the majority. democracy also means that citizens have fundamental rights which cannot be violated by majority decisions. in a state governed by the rule of law, these violations must be fought. privacy is a human right which cannot be abrogated by eu directives, general agreements or national legislation. privacy is enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights, and the european convention on human rights. mrs halonen, the council representative, said that the emergence and existence of certain new types of crime must be recognised. we must also recognize the existence of crimes which violate the privacy of citizens, crimes which are committed by the intelligence services of the united states and the eu countries 24 hours a day. this is electronic espionage. in the european legal area, the fight against this kind of crime seems to be left unprepared and uncontrolled, and is simply a matter of police cooperation. the types of crimes that are part of the preparation of the enfopol 19 document remain outside of democracy. the issues of cooperation between the police forces of the "ilets" are outside the scope of democracy. democracy, cooperation in counter-espionage "echelon" and bilateral agreements between the security services of the us and eu countries are left out. the fact that american computer manufacturers and software companies put special identification codes in their products is also a crime. it is a crime against people's privacy and, moreover, it endangers the security of european states. we have to fight these things and this kind of crime in an open and public way. i hope that finland will turn its words into action in this matter. we are not seeing any increase in transparency and publicity under the finnish presidency at the moment, we are only talking about it.
- (fi) madam president, mrs halonen, security is one of the main concerns of european citizens. the tampere summit will seek to meet this important challenge: the creation of a safer europe. one of the most important issues in the meetings is the eu's common immigration policy. the idea of a common asylum policy and a supranational burden-sharing is a good idea, but very difficult to achieve in practice. voluntary burden-sharing, on the other hand, is a good starting point for the union's activities. if voluntary burden sharing does not achieve the desired results, compensation for the costs incurred by refugees for the member states affected by the migration flows could be considered. that is also what you have presented, madam minister. the use of economic means of control should be accepted as part of the immigration policy of the member states of the union. in my country, for example, finland, which is far from the recent crisis, there is a widespread support for the idea of providing powerful aid to people in need as close as possible to where they live. there have been proposals recently to transfer cooperation in police and legal matters from the third pillar to the community. this arrangement would probably promote cooperation. the proposal, however, very clearly touches the very heart of the competence of the national states, the right to ensure the maintenance of the legal order and to control the observance of the laws on their territory. this is why it is worthwhile to consider carefully the pros and cons of the proposal. third pillar cooperation is sufficient as long as the eu does not have its own police forces and cooperation is therefore always based on the activities of the police forces of the member states, which are being facilitated through the europol system. the same applies to the proposed study groups. the question of transferring common competence will only really be on the agenda when the union wants to create supranational police forces. i fully support the creation of a european legal area and the establishment of a working group to look into this issue. the right of citizens to fair treatment must be ensured and adequate assistance guaranteed when they appear before the authorities of a foreign member state. i strongly support the establishment of a working party to look into this. the creation of a european legal area must be part of a new europe of citizens.
- (fi) mr president, we have a new commission for the next five years and i should like to clarify a little bit my group's attitude towards the commission. a large part of us is in favour of establishing new relations with the commission and this really means that parliament and the commission will now work closely together. some of us have therefore decided to give the commission a sign of confidence, because we feel that we have made a very good start in these relations. we also appreciate the broad cooperation between the political groups in accepting the statement calling on the commission to take seriously the individual responsibility of each member of the commission. we are very pleased that parliament as a whole is stressing the importance of publicity for files and of informing the public. we also stressed that parliament and european civil society must also be taken more seriously in the process of amending the founding treaties and in intergovernmental conferences. some of us have said, however, that we do not expect much green alignment from the new commission, and subsequently our whole group will ensure that the commission gives sufficient weight to the principles of creating a social europe and sustainable development so that they are taken seriously in all decision-making. we are, however, confident that president prodi has listened to parliament and we are beginning our cooperation with the new commission.
- (fi) mr president, the commission's proposals for amending budgets nos 1, 3 and 4 were examined in parliament extremely quickly and flexibly. this shows that parliament and its committee on budgets have a real responsibility for the economy of the european union and also a real responsibility for the development and rapid adaptation of policies to the prevailing conditions. budgets 1 and 3 are mainly technical, covering surpluses and certain computer acquisitions. the most interesting supplementary budget is no 4, which allocates large sums of money to reconstruction in the balkans - kosovo and macedonia - and humanitarian aid, as well as aid to turkey. gathering these resources has been a major challenge from the point of view of the eu's credibility and the fact that they have been examined in the committee on budgets, without any changes being made, is proof of this great responsibility. i would like to stress in particular that when the reconstruction of kosovo begins, the procedure must be simple and clear, also as regards the management of resources and the sharing of responsibilities. for this reason, the reconstruction office must not be divided into two, it must be in one place and be an independent office with sufficient decision-making power. otherwise, the management of resources takes time and leads to a reduction in aid. for this reason, when we discuss tomorrow and take a decision, the reconstruction office should be based in pristina and it should in no way be linked to the stabilisation agreement monitoring office in thessaloniki. as regards the other matters, i would like to say that the questions raised by mr fabra vallés concerning the provisions on posts can certainly be dealt with at the next budgetary examination.
- (fi) mr president, i should like to thank the council for the decisive action it has taken on the east timor independence referendum, in particular by sending an influential delegation to the country, with some of our colleagues as representatives of parliament. i myself was part of the finnish delegation, and i am very grateful for that. in may we discussed here what kind of international presence was needed in east timor. some of us have wondered whether we need anything other than civilian police and whether we need, eventually, peacekeeping troops. it seems that the biggest mistake was that the international operation was just about getting people to go and vote. it was a huge challenge because we scared people and, from the month of april, the terror was terrible. people went to vote, it was a sunny day, and i will never forget how people came to thank us, the international observers, for coming to the site. but the joy was short-lived. the next day paramilitary troops began to rampage through the streets and villages, and we learned that timorese, especially those working for the un, were being persecuted and murdered. i would now like to add three requirements to those which have been set out previously. first, we must demand that military commanders known to have participated in terrorism be removed from office immediately. secondly, humanitarian aid must be sent as quickly as possible through the echo programme, and this activity should be part of a long-term development programme. thirdly, as the paramilitary forces continue to terrorize the population, it is imperative that international human rights observers be sent to the area.
- (fi) mr president, the draft convention adopted by the council also contains provisions on the interception of telecommunications and on mutual assistance between the authorities in this field. however, most of the provisions on wiretapping are developed within the enfopol working group, which is not part of the preparatory work of the parliament or the political process: it is only police cooperation. but interceptions of this kind are likely to constitute an invasion of privacy, the privacy of citizens, and to be criminal in themselves. i would like to know what measures the council intends to take to ensure that these provisions of the enfopol are also subject to parliamentary and democratic scrutiny.
- (fi) mr president, i support the commission's renewable action plan. the problem is that our good decisions lose their relevance along the way and the envelopes get empty. we must put an end to this principle of consumption. i would like to stress three points. firstly, there should not be two management bodies for one administration. secondly, decisions must be taken on the ground, i.e. by the kosovo reconstruction agency. thirdly, collaboration with the local population is important, as is multi-ethnic collaboration on the ground. in this way, i would say that in the end, reconstruction does not depend on materials, but on cooperation. a new era is therefore opening up for the commission and for us. these three criteria - honesty, clarity and frankness - are a strength. we'll see to it.
- (fi) mr president, our group withdraws amendment no 1 because it has been said that the committee on foreign affairs will discuss in a general way the usefulness of maintaining un troops in international crisis zones, even if we are not thinking directly of east timor.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it is time to recall that a lot has happened in russia: more than 5 000 nuclear warheads have been decommissioned, the institutions are democratic and the media can and dare to pass judgment on the government. it is true that the media are increasingly owned by a few people, specifically by those who, as the previous speaker said, have misappropriated public funds. similarly, it must be remembered that in russia, the power is in the hands of the people, that is, the russians themselves. i would like to return to the cruel acts of terrorism, to the bombings, the last of which took place last night. this action is aimed at destabilizing the entire region and at a difficult time to say the least. russia is about to go to two elections, the situation is quite tense, the president is sick and the whole economy is in the red. we must condemn, as we have done, those states which are helping terrorists to create even more instability in a region which has already had enough of it. this is not primarily a financial crisis. russia is in the throes of a political crisis, and it has expanded as the country has changed direction. we understand the causes of this political crisis, but money will not solve it, no matter how much money it may cost. we've seen what happens to these funds: they never get where they're supposed to. i would like to come back to a second point from a western point of view. we do not have a clear policy towards russia, although we have concluded a partnership and cooperation agreement. we have repeatedly cultivated cooperation and we support democracy and civil society in russia but despite this, we do not understand the russians. one of the reasons is that we do not have enough practical knowledge of russian politics. we have focused on one person, one point, one group with actually quite a small amount of power. it follows that we will always be amazed at the events unfolding in russia. we should therefore expand our political contact area with russia. in doing so, we may better understand the unexpected twists and turns that occur. we know that our financial and food aid has, to a considerable extent, ended up in the hands of those for whom it was not intended. the people responsible are the russian elite that we haven't shaken. i think we should explain ourselves how, for example, the contract for the transport of food aid from europe to russia was arranged. i understand that there are some problems and i would ask the commission to clarify this point. in the present situation, it must also be added that cooperation with russia must be continued and not suspended. the northern dimension, medical assistance, northern areas, etc. are all priorities. russia is now in dire need of our practical help. that is why i consider the northern dimension to be important and i hope that the commission will take action.
- (fi) mr president, we are discussing today the financial crisis in russia. this is just one of the many problems russia is facing today. all these problems have the same cause: political crisis. i agree with mr paasilinna on this point. no viable political system has replaced the communist system in russia. the parliamentary elections due to take place at the end of this year and the presidential elections next year may lead to a resolution of the structural political crisis, at least we must hope so. we must be patient with russia in matters of international cooperation. when a country's political system and major social institutions fail to function properly, that country wastes part of the aid it receives. we must continue to help and finance russia, but we must draw lessons from the experience so that our action is as effective as possible. the european union must act in particular so that russia itself develops a democratic system and viable social and economic institutions. it is particularly desirable to initiate contacts and cooperation actions between the peoples and regions of the eu member states and russia in this field. in this context, there is a large potential for transferring the social and economic know-how that russia urgently needs. the circumstances are favourable and the opportunities for crossborder cooperation between the eu and russia are great, as shown by the bilateral cooperation between neighbouring regions between finland and russia that started in the 1990s. unfortunately, cooperation between the european parliament and the duma has been difficult. the meeting of the parliamentary cooperation committee scheduled for this autumn has been postponed. we just have to hope she can get up as soon as possible. the cooperation committee has expanded, there are many new members on our side. we should be optimising our action this autumn, in particular by increasing our knowledge of russia. we may be convening another meeting this autumn at which we can gain a greater understanding of economic and social conditions in russia. in addition, we need a follow-up programme to help members maintain their knowledge of russia. mr president, i think the commission's report was well-researched and sound. i believe that the commission is taking a firm view of the economic crisis in russia and, more generally, of the issues related to that country.
- (fi) mr president, the european commission is now seeing that the aid and support given to russia is being misused. but this has been the case for the last ten years and in this way we have destroyed the russian social infrastructure. aid has been misallocated and misused. the european union the poorly distributed. to call what has happened corruption is an understatement. corruption affects all levels of society. we cannot trust the president, his family, government ministers or the central bank in this area. it is incredible that the central bank has been diverting imf aid through front companies based in the tax haven of jersey. we are talking only about corruption and we are not saying frankly that there is an illegal action. the aid given by western countries has also been one of the causes of these illegal acts. this aid was provided under a false pretext. the emergency food aid provided to russia last winter is a typical example. we wanted to help russia survive the winter, the temperatures of the beginning of the year, but the aid has not yet reached its destination. we have provided russia with emergency food aid to withstand the cold of winter, and this food is still on its way. we are selling these products in russian shops, and in this way we are driving down the prices of russian agricultural and food products and reducing the opportunities for local farmers to sell their own produce. first of all, we want to say from the point of view of the eu taxpayers that if we were going to give aid to the russian social sector for the payment of pensions, we should have given money instead of food. food aid was part of the agricultural policy. the cost of food aid to taxpayers was much higher than if the corresponding social aid had been paid to russia in cash. the commission, the council and the european parliament must look in the mirror and make their mea culpa. the aid has been misused, but it has mainly been misallocated.
- (fi) mr president, we cannot quantify risk by comparison. it is striking to note that, in the shadow of the current tragedies in kosovo, east timor, turkey and greece, the situation in iran has deteriorated sharply. apart from the death sentences carried out in secret, we now hear about political trials. freedom of the press has also been severely restricted and the human rights situation has worsened further. the european union is negotiating with the islamic republic of iran. she should not only be critical but also active.
- (fi) madam president, i would point out that the interpretation is difficult to understand. we don't have a clear interpretation because the echo is so loud. i'd like to keep the sound coming from the room down.
- (fi) madam president, i think that parliament should take this opportunity to make a statement on the mandate for the wto negotiating round. the council of ministers will give the commission a mandate on 13 october and it would be a real pity if this mandate were to be issued without the european parliament having expressed its opinion. i would also remind all members that just a few weeks ago parliament gave the commission a mandate in which it insisted that we wanted to come together to act on the ongoing negotiations on international agreements and even at other stages of the negotiations. it would therefore be truly scandalous if parliament did not take advantage of this opportunity.
- (fi) mr president, we have seen in the previous intervention that consumers and citizens do not trust producers. we must quickly correct this fundamental error point by point: the problem does not come so much from the producers; the food and feed industries are hit by these crises and the producers are held responsible despite themselves. i would also like to mention one other point which has not been mentioned, namely the heavy metals in sewage sludge. heavy metals, including cadmium, are found in sewage sludge in large quantities. for this reason, in my country and in the nordic countries in general, we cannot spread this sludge on the fields to prevent cadmium from entering the food chain and, after that, the human body. it is truly inconceivable that sewage sludge could have been used for years in the manufacture of animal feed and fertilisers, although this has been banned in the eu for ten years. our european agricultural model has been hit hard and we should therefore tackle these problems quickly. president prodi said that the economic aspects should also be addressed. therefore, factories that use prohibited elements should be shut down immediately. we would then be acting in a sensitive area, economic matters, which would have a rapid effect. however, these files, which typically require more administration and control, must be made transparent so that everyone knows what is involved. the use of sewage sludge and residues for the manufacture of animal feed cannot be authorised.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - (fr) mr president, i shall speak mainly on the subject with which the previous speaker concluded. this is macro-economic aid to these countries. it is noted that the european union acts only as a financial intermediary. we borrow money on international markets and then make it available to these countries. the european union can guarantee a lower price for silver than if these countries were to receive it directly from the international market. the problem with this role of intermediary is the part of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, because it is not a loan but a grant spread over two years. the council has taken a decision on this financial aid, even though it cannot have the funds at its disposal, and the committee on budgets is giving it its full attention. if the financial perspective is not revised, other items in the budget will have to be reviewed in respect of category 4, financial activities, and, in order to maintain the aid granted to arym, aid to the others will have to be cut. the purpose of this financial aid cannot be to give to one country and take away from others. the committee on budgets has therefore proposed to the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy that the financial perspective in this area be revised and has given a favourable opinion on this report. the revision of the financial perspective is already a major issue and is linked in its entirety to the problem of the reason for the financing, that is to say the fact that the war in kosovo has led to a surprising situation for which the financial perspective was not prepared. we are faced here with the same revision of the financial perspective as that which is to be made for aid to kosovo, for the reparations for the damage caused by the earthquake in turkey and for the fisheries agreement with morocco. it is not unrelated to the fact that at the moment there are not enough funds in category 4 for all the projects that the council and the commission want to implement. the answer of parliament in the opinion of the committee on budgets is that it is essential at this stage to adjust the financial perspective, to ensure that the public aid granted by parliament and the european union is properly allocated and to ensure that this business is carried out for the right purpose.
- (fi) mr president, the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources is of paramount importance from an environmental point of view. the union will not be able to achieve its environmental objectives without actively promoting the use of renewable energy sources. the altener programme is an important step in the strategy for reducing carbon dioxide emissions. renewable energy sources reduce dependence on imports and their growth also improves competitiveness. europe must quickly become a leader in renewable energy sources, an area increasingly dependent on new technologies. the use of renewable energy sources also has a positive effect on regional development and employment. the altener programme is moving in the same direction. mr langen's proposals were unanimously approved, which is rare in the committee. this unanimity is a good starting point for promoting the use of renewable energy sources. as noted here, this is not at all obvious in this programme, but increasing the sustainable use of renewable energy sources also requires a lot of research, pilot projects, exchange of study results, legislative harmonization, public preparation, information campaigns and private and public investment which will only be profitable in the long term. the appropriations allocated to the altener programme are ridiculous in relation to the scope of the programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. at present, the growth in the use of these energy sources is mainly the responsibility of the member states. it is hoped that this programme will encourage them to take decisive action in this area. once again, peat was omitted from the list of renewable energy sources. in finland, peat is an important and widely used renewable energy source. i hope we can add him to the list again.
- (fi) mr president, the share of renewable energy in energy production in the eu is less than 6%. the most important sector in this share is hydropower. the goal of doubling this percentage is impossible to achieve with the current mentality that oil and gas sources are inexhaustible and if they are not, coal is cheap anyway. we are spending far too little on the altener programme. it is an illusion to think that such a small amount of money can be used for a good cause. we are deceiving ourselves by investing so little in a new mindset. it is also about the future of the eu. by 2020, oil imports will account for 94%, coal imports for 80% and gas imports for 75% of the total needs of the union. if we do not secure our energy future, we will not have the slightest chance of securing a rosy future for our citizens.
- (sv) clearly, enlargement of the union is the most important issue we will have to deal with in the near future. we understand that you have discussed the progress reports which have been drawn up and will be published next week. however, some of the issues related to enlargement are not the responsibility of the commission but of the council. this is the progress made in cooperation in legal and domestic policy matters. we know that the council is the one that is in charge of these matters, but will progress in these areas be mentioned in your reports? or will the council avoid publishing these reports, as we may fear? if that were to be the case and there were no plans to inform parliament or the applicant countries, we would be seriously concerned. i would also like to ask the president of the commission a question: do you have any objection to the publication of the letter you sent to the finnish prime minister, mr lipponen, on the tampere summit? it has already been published in sweden, and i think that you, who are in favour of transparency, should not be opposed to its being made public. mr lipponen refuses to publish it in finland. what do you think?
- (fi) madam president, president prodi has announced that he is undertaking a kind of cultural revolution within the administration by reviewing the senior functions. i would like to ask why there are no women among the new managing directors. have you really not had enough good candidates or do you have no use for women as collaborators? why is there only one woman among the heads of the commission's staff? i think we need to pay a lot of attention to career development in the commission so that women can also reach the highest positions. i would like to ask how you intend to ensure that we break this cage and that women are not confined to the lowest levels of the hierarchy?
- (fi) mr president, when mr romano prodi presented his programme, he told the european parliament that we might have 20 or 30 years of enlargement of the european union ahead of us, during which time the number of member states would probably increase to 25 or more. his perspective was realistic and is realistic. i am afraid that various bodies - and i am not thinking here of the european parliament, but of representatives of governments - have for years been hinting, in the hope of political favors, to several countries which are much closer to possible accession than turkey, that full membership of the baltic states, poland and hungary, for example, would already be possible in 2002 or 2003. the internal development of these countries and above all their capacity to fulfil the obligations of the european union in order to also acquire the rights of the union will probably not be sufficient for full membership as quickly as they would like. there is one thing we must understand. it is not fair, in my view, to isolate ourselves behind a lack of progress in turkey, when what we are really saying is that turkey cannot be a member of the union at all. no, i think what we have to say is, as mr sasi said on one occasion, that we still have to see a lot of progress in turkey, but we want to show good will. in other words, we are not excluding turkey. the european union will also realise the burden of this when poland, a country of 40 million inhabitants, becomes a member of the european union in a few years' time. a quarter of the population still lives off agriculture. the union itself does not have unlimited possibilities, and it is therefore easy to agree with mr poettering when he says: yes, turkey will be in the future, but the time has not yet come.
- (fi) mr president, on the altener programme, i would like to draw particular attention to the nordic energy economy. in the regions bordering europe, the exceptional climate imposes special requirements, which the european union must take into account. the use of peat is a plus for nordic energy policy. in finland, for example, marshes are a significant natural resource and the cubic metres of peat produced in these marshes cover about 7% of finland's energy needs. peat production provides a livelihood, directly or indirectly, for 6 500 people. peat has not yet been classified as a renewable energy source like wood. in reality, peat is a renewable natural resource comparable to wood, with simply a longer renewal cycle. the figure for the emissions from the energy use of peat would be significantly lower if the entire life cycle of the operation and the renewal of the peat were taken into account. the use of peat is essential if the exploitation of wood for energy production is to be increased. without parallel peat exploitation, the rate of utilisation of the boilers intended for the use of wood is not sufficient and profitable exploitation is not possible. the exceptional nature of peat must therefore be taken into account when considering european energy taxation. a healthier and cleaner energy economy requires that peat be defined as a renewable energy source in the future.
- (fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, the purity and quality of food products must be guaranteed in the wto. the european union should not be too modest in its objectives as the seattle summit approaches. europe wants to pursue a social and sustainable agricultural policy and above all to produce clean, high-quality food. the environment, human and animal health and equity must therefore be fully integrated into the principles on which the negotiations will be based. the list of issues to be dealt with in the negotiations must be as broad as possible at the outset. the european agricultural model must be vigorously promoted in the negotiations. the purity and quality of food must not be jeopardized under the guise of trade liberalization. the precautionary principle must also be applied in food production in the future. i also think that in the future it would be better if food products were produced close to the region where they are consumed. regional food distribution chains are the best way to control the quality of food. the european union must take an aggressive stance to defend its own sustainable development policy. the others will also have to take into account environmental protection and the protection of human health in their production if trade is to be liberalized.
- (fi) mr president, my dear friend mr sasi, the liberalization of world trade is about to take a great leap forward in seattle. the european union has become, through european integration, a central player in the world economy, and only an extended round of negotiations will give it sufficient opportunities to guarantee stable economic growth. among the many important issues on the negotiating agenda, the liberalisation of trade in services will be the most difficult. the european union is the world's largest provider of trade services. the proportion of services in gdp is proportionally highest in the european union and is only increasing. that 's better . one of the biggest obstacles to the liberalisation of trade in services is the lack of global regulation of public sector procurement. international companies must have the same opportunities to bid and the public sector must be open to international competition. the rules of the game in world trade must also be defined precisely, with the aim of guaranteeing the rights of market participants. the international comparability of copyright legislation also needs to be developed significantly. the central objective of the negotiations is to guarantee the quality of the services offered. if the european market is to be opened up, the foreign service provider must achieve the same level of quality as in europe. any quality control mechanisms should have clear operating principles and be as transparent as possible in terms of information. it is particularly important that the rapidly developing information society services be included in the treaty framework. it is in the interest of the development of modern trade in services in europe that the benefits of the development of the commercial exploitation of information technology be exploited to the maximum. a real effort must be made to facilitate electronic commerce, and control and taxation of commerce must be kept to a minimum. it will be necessary to ensure in the negotiations that electronic commerce develops freely and dynamically and that the opportunities for developing european electronic commerce continue into the next millennium.
- (fi) mr president, on behalf of the green group, i would like to welcome mrs hassi and mrs wallström. the european parliament must support you both in your efforts to include the issue of climate change in all european union policies. we know that the helsinki summit will be the decisive decision on how to take environmental issues in general and climate issues in particular into account. mrs wallström made a very positive point about her commission colleague, mr monti. the commissioner responsible for competition is therefore prepared to study how subsidies and tax-like payments affect climate issues. the european parliament's motion for a resolution strongly emphasises the need to reduce the massive subsidies currently granted to fossil fuels. i am confident that mr monti will tackle this problem. perhaps we can then direct subsidies to sectors that serve to promote the objectives of the european union and in particular sustainable development. i also support the idea that we must make a vigorous effort to put market forces to work to stop climate change. in this respect, the importance of environmental taxes cannot be underestimated. mr bolkestein, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, told the european parliament yesterday that he intended to deal with this issue, but unfortunately he said that he still needed a year to convince spain of the real need for an energy tax. i would be very interested to hear the views of the commissioner and the president of the council on how the common energy tax is progressing, because without it the european union will not be able to achieve its objectives.
- (fi) mr president, we must be able to move beyond the kyoto protocol if the fight against climate change is to produce results; we need a model of action that goes even further than the one the presidency has mentioned. emission trading should be assessed in terms of how it can affect emissions reductions. environmental taxation is important, and for that reason it has been discussed here as well. it is an important means of achieving cleaner production and transport. the attempts, however ambitious, of any isolated member state are doomed to failure unless progress is made at community level. forest growth as a means of carbon removal remains on the agenda, this debate must be pursued openly, and diversified forest exploitation must also be increased with a view to protecting the environment and combating climate change.
- (fi) mr president, the european parliament is debating today two global issues, trade liberalization and the implementation of the climate change treaty; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. both must be seen as part of a larger whole. the current development of the european union, of all western societies, of all humanity, is taking place in a direction that is in total contradiction with the natural economy. we talk about sustainable development in terms of natural economy, but the current of our actions is taking us in the opposite direction. despite the birth rate policy, population growth continues strongly. everywhere, even in the richest countries of all, people are striving to improve their material standard of living, in other words, to consume more. there are many people who are convinced that the invisible hands of the market and technological progress will solve humanity's problems. market forces are a good servant, but a bad master. new technologies help us to adapt our own economy to the natural economy, but they constantly create new problems and new risks. the development of market forces and technology must be oriented in such a way that, in order to promote sustainable development, words give way to deeds. what he ultimately returns to, let us not forget, are the values of life and politics. effective slowing down of climate change and other environmental changes that are disastrous for human beings requires that we be able to break the chains of materialism, the all-powerful material values that are harmful to both nature and man.
- (fi) mr president, the representatives of the country holding the presidency have indicated on various occasions that it is envisaged that qualified majority decisions will also be used in the field of the common foreign and security policy and, after the cologne council, probably also in the field of the common defence policy. i will ask the minister how the presidency is currently preparing for the adoption of the decision by qualified majority in the fields of foreign and security policy and defence policy.
- (fi) mr president, driftnets are also used in the baltic sea and they lead to overfishing of salmon. i would ask the council representative - if he does not have information on the decline in tuna catches - if he has information on the failure of wild salmon spawning in the last year in the teno river, which forms the border between finland and norway, and if the council representative intends to draw the attention of the commission representative to the fact that driftnet fishing should be limited in the baltic sea as well and not just in the tuna fishing area that has just been mentioned.
- (fi) mr president, the russian parliament is trying to drag this very president before the high court of justice over the latest war in chechnya. the war is political, and we are in the middle of an election campaign in russia, so the outcome must also be political. you can't force the mountain warriors down. russia is struggling with its kurdish question, which is obviously as difficult to solve as in turkey. in both cases, international aid is needed, if only for the refugees whose camps are open to the sky and who will soon have to face snowfall. war threatens to spread to the entire region. the operations are carried out in the middle of five countries. that's why the problem is international. the osce and the european union should offer the warring parties an opportunity to negotiate and thereby reach an agreement to end the war in the region. we must provide immediate aid to the refugees. they're not responsible for what happened. so we are discussing a political solution - i do not think a military solution is possible - and we now have the opportunity to help russia, which is currently in a difficult political situation, to find a solution and to conclude negotiations on the chechen problem.
- (fi) mr president, the arms trade is a persistent scourge which also harms the development of the poor countries. it is therefore welcome that the union has drawn up its first report on arms exports and that it has been made public. it is however absolutely necessary to design this reporting system by extending it to torture and other inhuman and degrading treatment so that national parliaments and this house have data if possible before wider dissemination and the control of arms exports is intensified. we have sufficient political and legal means to intervene in cases of infringement of the rules of the control system.
- (sv) mr president, we are aware of the struggle that mr olivier dupuis has waged, as has been said before. i think we should be grateful that this debate is taking place. i also think that at the present stage the un general assembly seems to be on a very good track. all countries supported it, and it was easy to reach agreement on this point. now that the fight is being waged within the framework of the united nations, we must beware of the clever counter-proposals coming from various quarters, which are aimed, under an innocent guise, at diluting an overly strong position of the un general assembly. we must therefore keep a close eye on what is happening at the united nations. at the same time we must ensure that this parliament strongly supports this action and that binding decisions are taken in the future, including in geneva, in various human rights contexts, and that we can implement this resolution, which i hope will be adopted in new york this autumn.
- (sv) mr president, the issue of the roma in kosovo puts us in a very acute crisis situation. a week ago, i participated in a live tv debate with the representative of the roma people to the osce, who is monitoring the situation. this person has asked the eu to do something for the roma, to organise a special meeting or to take similar action, and i regret to tell you that this request has not been heard. we know that people are being thrown out of hospitals and that roma people are exposed to various forms of violence. that is why i am calling on the commission and the council to ensure that a special meeting is held to discuss the situation of the roma, to try to establish effective monitoring and to show that all the international organisations present in pristina want to act on this issue. it would be a form of action to convene the meeting unsuccessfully requested by the special rapporteur to the osce. this initiative would have a great deal of weight and would help to set the course for the future. i hope that the commissioner present, mr nielson, will be able to convey this message to mr hombach and his colleagues in pristina and thessaloniki.
- (sv) mr president, i would like to know whether the commission can support my proposal to organise a meeting with the osce representatives to discuss with all those involved the special situation of the roma. i would ask the commissioner to at least convey this message to his colleagues and to mr hombach.
- (en) according to the definition of the kyoto protocol, only forests established in non-forest areas after 1990 can be considered as carbon sinks. if this method of calculation is used, only 1 to 3% of the european forest network can be taken into account. the current definition of 'carbon sinks' for forests is inadequate for european forest regeneration practices. this is a matter of the utmost importance. if we really want to combat climate change and not just develop measures that have nothing to do with the environment, we should consider the entire carbon stock of forests as a carbon sink.
- (sv) mr president, i am thinking at this moment of our former colleague mr ullmann, whose report we studied last time we discussed the question of electronic signatures. there were not many of us in the chamber that day; there are a few more of us today. i take it that there are now more members in this house who understand the importance of this directive. this is also illustrated by the share issue launched last week by the finnish company data fellows. the operation resulted in a veritable wave of popular capitalism. data fellows is a company which markets security and control services, particularly those applicable to the internet. so we have an important economic proposal to discuss today. it is also essential that this discussion leads to a rapid decision, as the rapporteur has said, and as several other speakers have stressed. i support the rapporteur and welcome the position adopted by the council in favour of a rapid decision and the constructive nature of the dialogue initiated. i also think that there is a danger of a fragmentation of the european market, since many countries have already adopted provisions on this subject. it would therefore be a pity if we were unable to obtain this directive. i also think that the text is clear, even if it has been found that it does not define the formal criteria which the member states will have to establish for the various procedures. i will give a classic example which can be applied here: if the laws of the member states require the presence of the persons concerned, it will not be possible to conclude a marriage on the internet simply by means of a double signature of this type. this is a formal requirement which persists in legislation and which cannot therefore be abolished. when it comes to this type of identification and security services, i wish we would not just think of them as numbers. we may see other forms of identification and physical control in the future, and i hope that this will be taken into account in the clause for the revision of the directive. don't think i've watched too many james bonds. no, that's what the future holds. and that's why the review clause is important. we are talking about voluntary measures and various possibilities, but it is important, first of all, to comply with the safety specifications contained in the directive, so that signatures accepted at national level are also valid at international level. it should also be noted that the commission has an important role to play in defining the criteria for establishing the authenticity of signatures and whether the provisions applied are sufficiently secure. in this context, i hope that the commission will set economically appropriate standards, and that it will do so in a transparent manner, so as to avoid creating de facto monopolies. we know that this can be the impact of standards in the information society. the directive gives the commission a lot of power in this area.
- (fi) mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his report. e-commerce is growing rapidly and we think that's a very positive thing. however, we do not yet fully understand its cultural or political significance. we will surely need in the future a civil rights movement against e-commerce networks. electronic signatures consolidate electronic commerce and this is important. we need trade that is growing in relation to, for example, our ability to compete with the united states. in our country, the use of the internet is only one third of what it is there. even if a transaction has three passwords and you change two of them every time, the system is not completely secure. if hackers can get into the pentagon files, they can also get into the electronic commerce networks. in the retail trade, where losses due to theft may represent, for example, 1% of sales, the damage is limited to the retail trade itself. in electronic commerce, the damage also affects the customer and very often only the customer. that is why the importance of safety can never be overemphasized. we need international cooperation, as has already been seen here tonight. we need such a broad cooperation that we should create a kind of police of networks similar to the traffic police. but think about the speed of e-commerce and the length of roads compared to road traffic. it is also important that control is exercised where the centre of activities is located. this presupposes international cooperation and demands a great deal from our negotiators in the wto negotiating cycle. we also wanted to protect minorities. the largest minority, however, in all countries, are the poor. i hope that they too will have access to the world of networks and that the commission will take steps to this end.
the rapporteur. - (fi) mr president, the eu budget for the year 2000 is currently being examined. the other main classes follow the disciplined line that has been established in recent years. the budget for the institutions other than the commission and the council will be eur 1 286 000 000 in 2000. the increase is eur 44 million, or 3.5%. the margin calculated for heading 5 is eur 135 million, according to the financial perspective. the emphasis of this draft budget is on rent and the refurbishment of the institutions' offices. the aim is to move the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions to the offices in the belliard i and ii buildings, which have been vacated by parliament and will be renovated before then. the common organizational structure of these committees will be located in the bertha von suttner building, formerly the montoyer building. the rented premises used up to now will be abandoned. the successful implementation of building solutions, however, requires close cooperation. the draft budget provides for new posts for both parliament and the economic and social committee in order to improve management of buildings. however, proper management requires a clear division of labour and a clear definition of responsibilities, both between the institutions and with regard to the persons involved, from both the parliament and the economic and social committee. this sharing of responsibilities must be seen as a prerequisite for the success of the project. a double reserve, which is still in the budget, also relates to buildings. a reserve of eur 7.4 million has been entered in parliament's expenditure for the belliard building's rent, as the lease between the owner and the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions is not yet clear. if it does so before the end of the year, parliament's budget will be reduced by the amount mentioned, because the european parliament's budget currently represents 20.11% of heading 5, whereas the ceiling indicated by parliament itself is 20%. there are two reasons for this overrun. first the double budget for rent, which has just been mentioned, and then the provision for the status of members. in the spring, a reserve of eur 60 million was already accepted in parliament's budget for the remuneration of members. parliament has demanded that the remuneration of members be paid from parliament's resources and the council has supported this initiative. since the member states themselves pay the members of parliament, this is a transfer of payments from the member states to the european union. it is quite natural to demand that such a new item of expenditure, which would mean at the same time a reduction in the expenditure of the member states, cannot be included in the previously accepted expenditure ceiling. if these two items of expenditure are taken into account, parliament's share in heading 5 would be 18.97%, which means that budgetary discipline would be well respected. a second important point in this draft budget is the strengthening of the resources of the court of justice of the eu, which is particularly evident in the improvement of the conditions for translation work. in accordance with the council's proposal, the committee on budgets has presented the creation of 30 new posts for translators and a substantial appropriation for the remuneration of independent translators. as funds have also been proposed for improving office automation, the court of justice will see its resources increased significantly. the court of justice will then be able to better manage its workload, to absorb its backlog of texts to be translated and to serve the member states, citizens and businesses better in the interpretation and application of european law. parliament has the right, as well as the duty, to demand that clear results follow. the review of this year's budget has made it clearer that there is a need to move to activity-based budgeting. the institutions have a large staff, and the efficient use of this staff benefits everyone. however, the current model of administration is open to criticism. the institutions seem to be very interested in finding new needs and job descriptions in order to justify their growing staff needs. parliament, as a decision-making authority, has a very difficult time looking at its own staffing structure of four thousand people and deciding which tasks require new posts. in each member state, however, there has been a major restructuring. there have been some changes in the distribution of tasks, posts and staff. this is why the creation of new jobs has, in many cases, been entirely removed from the budgetary authorities. these only allocate one credit to one institution. we get two advantages here. firstly, the work of the institution is seen as a whole and there is less risk of getting lost in the details. the work of an institution can be more clearly appreciated on the basis of results and can be better directed. a global budget also provides an opportunity to clarify and increase personal responsibility. this approach encourages better and more efficient work, as everyone can research and apply more effective methods and use measured resources where they are needed most. in the european union, it is high time to move to budgetary management by envelopes, to management responsible for the result, to a delegation of power and responsibility downwards, and to a clarification of personal responsibility. it is necessary to require that managers and supervisors bear clear responsibility for their own area of performance, its development and improvement. i would like to thank all those who helped me prepare my report. i would like to thank in particular mr terence wynn, chairman of the committee on budgets, who has supported my activities in many ways, both in the practical negotiations, in the meetings of the committee on budgets and in personal discussions. i would also like to thank the lead rapporteur, mr jean-louis bourlanges, with whom cooperation was smooth and easy. i would also like to thank all the coordinators, in particular mr reimer böge of the european people's party and mr ralf walter of the party of european socialists, with whom the cooperation has been constructive, objective and active. i would also like to thank my own group for its unreserved support and all the secretaries and staff who have had a part to play.
- (fi) mr president, i would like to support mr bourlanges' position on the revision of the financial perspective. at the same time, i am surprised that finland, the country holding the presidency, is also sticking so strictly to the council's unsustainable position that world events have no influence on the eu budgetary framework and the final amounts of the eu budget. i would like to draw attention to the fact that requests for economic aid have been made to political parties of european significance. our group, the european united left - nordic green left, has a different view on this matter. we do not want european taxpayers' money to be used to support political parties. we would also like to see the benefits and salaries of members of parliament corrected so that a common regulation is adopted so that members of parliament do not receive unjustified allowances and that everyone is paid a fair salary and remuneration.
- (fi) mr president, the adoption of the culture budget is this time more difficult than usual. the socrates ii programme is currently under conciliation, and the recommendations for the youth and culture 2000 programmes will be given second reading at the plenary session on wednesday, that is to say tomorrow. the final effort to accept these multiannual programmes has therefore not yet been made. the greatest differences of opinion between parliament and the council relate to the financing of the programmes, which is still pending. at the same time, the committee on budgets had to present the sums needed to implement these programmes for next year. it must be made clear that the amounts proposed by the committee on budgets do not represent a position on the final outcome of the conciliations. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. the funding of programmes has caused some concern among the members of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and the problem is probably not unique. the way parliament acts in the codecision procedure with regard to the budgetary procedure for existing multiannual programmes must be corrected. a statement by the committee on budgets is attached to the report on the first reading, but there is no formal cooperation between the special committee and the committee on budgets during the second reading and conciliation. this easily leads to interruptions in the transmission of information and to misunderstandings between the special committee and the committee on budgets. the worst thing is that parliament's position on the financing of programmes is not clear. it can be used against parliament. since the multiannual programmes must in any case be included in the general financial perspective of the budget heading concerned and of the whole budget, i believe that parliament should improve its internal coordination in the examination of the multiannual programmes and the budget. the contact between the specialised committee and the committee on budgets should not be interrupted during parliament's first reading, as time may pass until the matter is finally settled. the treaty of amsterdam underlines the position of the parliament as a responsible and effective decision-maker. that is why it is necessary that parliament should have a common and lasting view of the matter under consideration in the budgetary negotiations and conciliations.
- (fi) mr president, mr president of the european central bank, the annual report of the european central bank shows that the bank's activities have started off quickly and that the steps taken so far have been in the right direction. the transition to the third stage of emu has been smooth. the bank has already succeeded in adapting its working methods to today's requirements during its first months of operation. however, much remains to be done to bring the european central bank to its rightful position, although not automatically. we want to see a strong and independent european central bank in the future, not just alongside our global competitors, the federal reserve and the bank of japan, but preferably ahead of them. it takes time to establish a position and to gain the confidence of the markets, and we cannot assume that everything will happen in an instant. when we discussed the annual report in the economic and monetary committee, we had a very lively discussion, particularly on transparency and its progressive increase. although transparency has undoubtedly increased and the director-general's press conferences following management meetings have marked a marked improvement in the bank's ways of working, the objective must be to increase transparency further, provided that the bank's activities stabilise and the shortcomings of the young are eliminated. the european parliament, as the representative of the european people, must have the right to demand that the ecb publish, like other central banks, the arguments in support of its monetary decisions, as well as the arguments against them. the publication of summaries after management meetings is also justified and they should clearly justify the decisions taken, so that market participants can make their own decisions. i have seriously considered whether the opinions of the members of the bank and any voting decisions should not also be published in the future. i followed the majority view of our group in explaining my decision by the fact that such a line could, at first, weaken rather than strengthen market confidence in the bank's activities. it really might be too big a step to take right now. in the long term, however, i hope that we will be able, at some point, to achieve full transparency. knowledge is power and sharing knowledge, in an open market economy, this is called democracy. the proper functioning of markets can be enhanced by knowledge sharing. the more information is distributed in a regular manner throughout society, the more effective individual choices will be in guiding the development of the economy and the invisible hand of markets. finally, i would like to say that i strongly support the publication of reports on the economic situation in the euro area countries and on the various indicators. the ecb may also comment on this information, but its analysis should be left to national decision-makers. it should be remembered that even though the euro area has only one monetary policy, we still have eleven different economic policies which the member states are careful to coordinate within the framework defined by the agreement on growth and stability.
- (fi) madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i too believe that the tampere european council can be considered historic in that it was the first time that the council considered and put at the top of the european agenda the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. the issues dealt with are among those that matter to ordinary citizens - and indeed to businesses - and affect their daily lives. the group of the european people's party/european democrats welcomes the progress made in this area, although we are also disappointed by the timidity of some of this progress. as regards the creation of a european area of justice, the most important decision was to make the mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments in civil or criminal matters the cornerstone of judicial cooperation. the strong support of citizens for the principles of free movement of persons means that there must be better possibilities for enforcing one's rights before a court of justice throughout the european union. improving police cooperation in practice and increasing support for europol are helping to investigate and prevent crime. on this point, our group notes that judicial cooperation must nevertheless be at the forefront of collaboration and welcomes the establishment of eurojust, the body for cooperation between prosecutors. we are, however, disappointed that the decisions of the tampere council do not mention a european prosecutor-general, who should have had jurisdiction over fraud in the area of the community budget. the group agrees with the council that the european union and its member states are strengthening the union's transparency to the rest of the world in the area of personal, cultural, political and economic relations. this also implies absolute respect for the right to seek asylum. we hope that the council, by its decision to establish a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for persons granted asylum throughout the union, has paved the way for europe to become a uniform area for asylum and refugees. the tampere summit has not yet reached this stage in its decisions, which merely speak of a common space. our group will use its powers to influence the community budget with a view to the creation of a european fund for refugees; this is a matter which has remained at the stage of mere mention in the council decisions, which calls on the commission to examine the possibility of 'establishing, in one form or another, a financial reserve for temporary protection in the event of a massive influx of refugees'. nor do the council decisions contain any other reference to how the economic burden of refugees and asylum seekers should be distributed within the union. although at present it is the member states of the european union which want to decide in the last resort who can move to their territory, the long-term objective must be a common policy and the sharing of the costs that follow. our group welcomed the composition of the chamber for the drafting of a charter of fundamental rights of the european union and is convinced that its strong parliamentary dimension reflects the achievement of the democratic development of the european union better than a normal intergovernmental conference. we will participate fully in the work of this house. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, despite the few criticisms i have made, we consider the results of the tampere summit to be significant and our criticism is aimed at ensuring that the council commits itself in future to even more ambitious community objectives. decisions are just words on paper, however. what is important now, in my view, is that the council and the commission ensure that the conclusions are implemented as quickly as possible. if decisions, once they have been taken from the top down in the gray of the justice and home affairs councils, become routine again and nothing happens for three or four years, the tampere summit will go down in history as a dead letter. this is what will happen, even though the council has borrowed a good idea from the business world, the idea of score boarding. the correct term is balanced score card. mr president-in-office of the council, continue your work! (applause) i would like to thank
- (fi) madam president, we have every reason to congratulate the president-in-office of the council on the tampere summit, which was well organized and even more successful than expected. the presidency has played a decisive role in achieving these results. the difficulty of the tampere extraordinary summit was further increased by the fact that justice and home affairs were not yet among the common issues of the european union and are only now about to be. because of the limitations imposed by the treaties, progress has been modest. these are difficult issues and can easily lead to conflicts of interest. however, there is a need for a major effort at community level on issues affecting the security of citizens, such as the fight against crime. criminal investigations and prosecutions must be conducted within the framework of a genuine european area of justice. mutual recognition of judicial decisions and judgments is therefore necessary, as is the work of standardising criminal law. this is particularly necessary in the case of economic crime. what was important was that prevention was given priority in the fight against crime at community level. we must care about young people, and we must make efforts to create places for young people in educational institutions and jobs. the european social model must be developed in a more solidarity-based way and it must serve to prevent exclusion and encourage people to take care of themselves; it must also guarantee equal opportunities for all groups of citizens, including immigrants. the results of the tampere summit also confirm that we do not want a 'fortress europe', but on the contrary we want to take on our responsibilities. the new comprehensive approach to asylum and migration, as well as the european council's commitment to the full and comprehensive application of the geneva convention on refugees and the decision to work towards a european asylum system, are steps in the right direction. we must, however, be aware that the work is only just beginning and that the greatest challenges still lie ahead. it is important to take into account the questions of the candidate countries and regional cooperation in this field. in the face of these challenges, close cooperation between the institutions is needed. the citizens must also be involved in this work and their support for decisions taken at community level must be increased.
- (fi) mr president, the tampere summit itself was indeed a milestone on the road to deepening cooperation and strengthening solidarity between governments. since the concrete will was mainly in the security sector, it can be said that the direction to be taken is now somewhat uncertain and that progress may be uneven. so, despite the many positive aspects, it can be said that, as far as fundamental and human rights are concerned, the outcome of the summit was above all a victory that contained the enemy. we will have to be particularly vigilant about the subsequent preparations, which will have to be transparent. the road to tampere was very dark. we need more light, mehr licht!
- (fi) mr president, there have been rumours that the high level group intends to propose to europe the onion model, a kind of concentric circle system. it is a pity that the report does not contain the word 'onion', because institutional differentiation seems to be the only realistic solution for the rapidly enlarging union. europe will have to be made up of three institutional circles in the future. the outer circle would be the council of europe, which could be put to better use by the intergovernmental institutions by giving it new tasks. the second circle would be the european union which would develop in the future as a confederation. such a european confederation could easily and rapidly expand. the inner circle would be the european federation of the most advanced eu states in terms of integration: those belonging to both nato and the european countries. the european union would thus become a confederation with a federal state at its core.
in writing. - (fi) with the draft directive, the commercial exploitation of electronic signatures is taking a step forward, but there is still a long way to go. the fundamental problems of electronic signatures, such as the reliability and flexibility of the system and the establishment of responsibilities, require cooperation, also in the future. many states and organisations have developed digital signatures and related regulations in recent years. in addition to the draft eu directive, the international chamber of commerce and the oecd have made recommendations in this area. the important project of the organization promoting international electronic commerce, global information infrastructure, has however been done. i believe that in developing the european electronic signature reference system, the european union must also be constantly acting at international level, so that the legal frameworks for the system can be consolidated. the creation of an international organisation would be in the interest of the european union. the development of cooperation must not, however, lead to an increase in regulations. it is necessary to allow protection systems to develop freely, as efficiently as possible, thanks to market forces and at the same time to ensure that consumer confidence in the possibilities of electronic signatures remains strong.
in writing. - i sincerely hope that, as the presidency has said, the tampere summit is a successful step away from fortress europe. for the greens and many non-governmental organisations, the confirmation of the geneva convention on refugees "in its fullest and broadest sense" is a victory. i regret, however, that for many asylum seekers the only way to enter the union is through the illegal route. the new approach to tackling illegal immigration in countries of origin carries a risk that cooperation could lead to a form of repression. the union must tackle the problem at its roots if it is to make a real difference to the human rights and economic situation of people living in these countries. our group welcomes the increased efforts in the fight against money laundering and human trafficking. but we insist that the extension of europol's powers should be accompanied by an equivalent increase in democratic safeguards at union level to ensure respect for civil rights. this includes the control of the european parliament and the european court of justice. the greens believe that the status of third country nationals requires improvements beyond the proposals made in tampere. equal treatment includes not only access to social and educational services but also the right to vote and freedom of movement within the eu. the charter of fundamental rights must include new and inviolable rights for the citizens of the union if it is to be avoided as a political declaration.
- (fi) mr president, when the warsaw pact and the soviet union collapsed, the western countries assumed that unconditional aid would be given to the territorial unity of the russian federation. presumably, russian leaders also received promises of sorts when they helped to peacefully dissolve the warsaw pact and the soviet union. this has also been the common starting point for western countries in their attitude to the events in chechnya. however, russian leaders are likely to fear losing these territories whose population is mainly composed of ethnic and religious minorities. the military withdrawal from chechnya was a precedent felt to be dangerous. the events in dagestan, on the other hand, suggested that the evil was spreading. the concern of the russian leadership for the territorial unity of their country is undoubtedly legitimate. they should realize that the independence of the country cannot be secured by armed force. the only realistic possibility is that the minorities living in the southern parts of russia are happy with their living conditions and consider it an advantage to be part of the russian federation. we need an armed force, but it should only be used in the fight against terrorism. the western countries must clearly condemn the use of excessive military force in chechnya more clearly than was done at the helsinki summit. we must press the russian government to make efforts to solve the internal problems of its country, both through political means and by promoting economic and social development. the credibility and capacity for action of the eu and, in general, of the western countries, are unfortunately weakened in this matter by the recent war in yugoslavia, which was fought for humanitarian reasons.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, mr sasi has just confirmed the unfortunate notion that the european union regards the events in chechnya as a purely internal russian affair. russia is, however, violating many human rights. the council of europe agreements, for example, categorically forbid states from bombing and murdering their own citizens. the osce agreements also make it clear that states have committed themselves to the fact that violations of human rights can never be the internal affair of a state. in addition, the russian central government oppresses a national minority. there is even reason to fear that russia is engaged in ethnic cleansing by trying to create buffer zones without chechen population. the position of our group is that wishful thinking and cabinet discussions are no longer enough and that economic aid to russia should be limited to humanitarian and environmental aid. mr schori has just commented on the latest reports on how russia is increasing its military budget. does the european union want to help increase russia's military expenditure, for example by means of a partnership and cooperation agreement, so that it can continue to punish chechnya?
- (fi) mr president, we must condemn in the strongest possible terms the terrorist acts directed against the russian people and which have caused a large number of civilian casualties. if, i say, if these terrorist acts are the work of chechnya, then they are a bad international mode of action. but at the same time we must also condemn russia's actions against the chechen civilian population and the terrorist acts directed against civilians in chechnya. unfortunately, the european union and the nato countries have set an example in this respect of how to act: they showed, during the war in yugoslavia, how conflicts are resolved. in the eu and nato, they are resolved by force, air strikes and attacks on independent countries, in contradiction to the decisions of the international community. this is a wrong way to solve problems. we should develop international means of resolving problems between countries peacefully and guaranteeing the freedom and human rights of citizens.
- (fi) mr president, it seems that the war in chechnya is also part of the russian election campaign, although there are many other reasons for it. the actions of russia seem to be turning into real repressive actions against the civilian population, which is absolutely reprehensible and will lead us to stop aid to russia in the near future. the cessation of this aid will affect the poorest and those most in need of help, and we must not forget that. i'm looking for a way out. could we think of holding a conference on the caucasus, since the war there involves at least five territories, not just chechnya, as the speakers have said? armenia, for example, whose prime minister was assassinated just a few hours ago, is another sad example. another possibility is that russia shifts the center of gravity from the south to the north, where there are many natural resources richer than in the south, without conflict and without dangers. this would be a way to withdraw from this region. is the commissioner prepared to support such a measure relating to the nordic dimension?
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, mrs angelilli said that we are only talking about the euro, when there are many other important things. i would like to tell him that the birth of the euro is very important for us young people. the community's youth programme is one of the most important programmes for citizens in the european union. the youth programme was a success, both in its functionality and in its public nature. even if parliament decides on the framework and general lines of the programme, it is important to remember that successful implementation of the programmes can only take place at national level. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: despite its success, the youth programme is not complete or perfect. the submission procedure must always be clarified and made easier, as has already been said here. the problems of youth programmes often arise from the fact that the various sub-programmes try to reach the widest possible target group. this is done in an effort to enable as many young people as possible to benefit from the programmes. experience has shown, however, that too heterogeneous a target group increases the administrative burden of examining applications and may even make it difficult for certain groups to use the programmes. the evaluation of youth programmes must be developed in a clear way. the ideas of national actors must be used more in the implementation of programmes. in evaluating programmes, more attention should be paid to the economic effectiveness of the programmes. the group meeting subprogramme, for example, is much cheaper than the european voluntary service and benefits a larger number of young people. sport is a new dimension added to the youth programme. this is a major step forward. however, before the programme is implemented, it must be clearly known for what type of sporting activities the funding for youth programmes will be used. the resources should be used primarily to emphasise the educational dimension of sport. if no limits are set, the programme's resources can easily be spent on sporting events only.
- (fi) mr president, madam commissioner, audiovisual production of its own plays an important role in the preservation and development of the cultural diversity of european countries. the importance of national cultures is underlined in today's globalisation. the audiovisual sector is one of the most international cultural sectors. audiovisual production has an economic function and the cultural dimension plays a central role. the effect on employment is also important. the number of jobs in the cultural sector in europe is over three million, a large proportion of which are in the audiovisual sector. although the sector is dominated by large groups, it should be remembered that new jobs are mainly created in small and medium-sized enterprises. from the point of view of the latter, the activities of the audiovisual observatory are important. we must ensure the development of small and medium-sized audiovisual enterprises. they increase the competitiveness of european audiovisual production and diversify production. the members of the observatory are 34 european countries and the european commission. the member states which have applied for membership of the union are therefore also involved in this process. the audiovisual observatory is improving the conditions for european companies to operate in this rapidly developing field. by collecting and disseminating information, it particularly helps small and medium-sized enterprises to cooperate and thus help them to develop. it is therefore important to ensure the conditions under which the observatory can operate. it is regrettable that following the vote in the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, funding for the observatory is only proposed for three years, contrary to the position of, among others, mr gargani, the chairman of the committee. i am glad that mr gargani has made his views clear in this plenary session. it is true that parliament must be vigilant in the use of taxpayers' money. at the same time, however, it is important to remember that saving should not be misused. it is better to support small and mediumsized enterprises with services, rather than, for example, with aid to enterprises that distorts competition.
- mrs hautala, i am very sorry that you were not present at the beginning of this sitting, because, as you can imagine, i mentioned this tragedy and said that i would, in your name of course, convey my condolences and sympathy to the armenian people. so we are in perfect agreement on this.
- the resolution is adopted and i warmly congratulate our rapporteur, mr bourlanges, and all those who have contributed to its success. (applause) i would like to thank
- (es) mr president, i will be rational in my speech. i personally think we are making a mistake, partly because of the way the original olaf regulation was drafted, but that is another matter. here we must understand why questions concerning members require an absolute majority in the house. you have given the reason for this, mr president: we are seeking a broad consensus. we cannot hide behind a technical issue which means that certain agreements are not incorporated into the regulation. it is a matter which must be annexed to the rules of procedure and it is therefore logical and reasonable - and the rules, since law is law and not just official texts, must be reasonable - that it should be supported by an absolute majority of the assembly. any other view would be contrary to the very essence of parliament's rules of procedure.
- (nl) mr president, on the virrankoski report, i would like to tell the voters that we members of the european parliament are not only big spenders, big spenders, but we also know how to look at spending. i was therefore disappointed that parliament did not adopt my amendment.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, this debate and the situation are, from the eu's point of view, untimely and harmful. so, ladies and gentlemen, we shall have to defend the european agricultural model at the wto negotiations in seattle. we decided that british beef was no longer under embargo and yet within the union - a union which should be the model for a free economic zone - we decided that it is still. this is an absurd situation ! the british have suffered enough from the bse crisis. they did everything possible to remove the problem from our agenda and restore order. that's remarkable. it is inconceivable that we should take the decision together to allow the sale of british beef and then prohibit it. imagine the moment when we have to discuss the enlargement of the eu. take poland for example; if polish agriculture is brought quickly up to the european average, it can feed almost the entire union from its own production. that is why we must defend european agricultural objectives in the wto talks because in the coming years, in the next decade, only exports will provide a solution to the problems of agriculture. that's our starting point. england and france are both guilty - the pot chewing the pan. if my country, finland, were to produce fodder with sewage sludge added, i can assure you that the company would close its doors the next day. there is no question of producing fodder from this sludge. such practices - banned since 1991 - cannot be allowed to continue in the eu. we must indeed strengthen ourselves and see how we want to get out of this difficult and delicate situation as we move towards the wto negotiations and think about enlargement and the future of the union. these crises must be resolved very quickly. we're the only ones who can do this, and we need to do it fast.
- (fi) mr president, the fodder for cattle sold in england contained animal meal and foreign prions caused mad cow disease. in france sewage sludge, which was supposed to contain human feces because of the urea content, was added to animal feed. in belgium, oils were mixed with these foods, and when heated, dioxins were released. the eu and its commissioner for agriculture are responsible for these problems, but the real culprits are the national administrations. the problem is the fodder. it's the most important stage in the food chain. the solution to this problem is not to create an army of eu officials to control companies. the solution is national. the national authorities must dare to monitor farms and their production. perhaps there will be an update on the illegal use of hormones. anyway, the best way to solve this case is to adopt a traceability system.
- madam president, i don't see why there should be such a big drama. i think we should have a little debate. it is clear, of course, that the dossier could not be properly prepared in the groups or in the conference of presidents, because we were informed of this communication so late. in my opinion, there is really no need for drama, debate is a good thing, but the main thing is that we can hear the content of this communication first and foremost.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the rapporteur for his report. my group supports the line that has been adopted. technological cooperation is obviously important. russia's scientific resources are considerable, particularly in the field of basic research, and remain largely untapped and unused internationally. the unstable situation in the country has not prevented the search from continuing, although it is true that it is experiencing difficulties. the operating credits are missing, salaries are overdue, scientific publications are difficult to obtain, and the shelves of shops have been flooded with cheap literature: suspense, sex, etc. for the period 1993-98, community funding for scientific and technical cooperation amounted to almost €140 million. approximately 35 000 russian researchers have participated in these projects. a large number of officials seem to be going to russia, and i would like the commission to specify the ratio of officials to scientists. at present, the costs of seminars and travel are €90,000 per year. agriculture is one of the sectors, among others, of cooperation in the field of research. it should also cover, for example, organic farming. in russia, small farmers have actually been forced to practice organic farming, because they don't have money for chemical fertilizers. surprising as it may seem, they are close to this organic ideal that we aspire to too. cooperation on techniques and industrial organizations would also be important. considerable progress could be made in this area. the information society techniques are also discussed, and they fall within the scope of the cooperation treaty. but why do they not include the 'content' aspect of the information society? russia is in many ways a very rich country in content. we are lagging behind our main competitor, the united states, in terms of content, and the russians have really very different points of view from which we could learn a lot. in conclusion, i would mention chechnya, where the fighting - the bombing, rather - continues uninterrupted. the number of refugees has been growing, and conditions have become appalling. the russian government is not responding in any way. the real victims are civilians, not these so-called terrorists, as the russians call these chechen men. it seems increasingly clear that this is just one element of the election campaign in russia. the men responsible for the moscow bombings have not been found, or at least not charged. a whole people is being oppressed in this way, and we must probably react more seriously, so that moscow hears and notices. we cannot tolerate this.
- (fr) mr president, our group supports this report. cooperation between the european union and russia must be continued and developed. the agreement under consideration provides a more appropriate framework for this purpose. cooperation has been delayed by the fact that, on the russian side in particular, it is managed by a multitude of authorities. the agreement under discussion now brings this scattered cooperation together in a more coordinated package. it stressed the importance of cooperation, particularly in the field of environmental and climate research and in the information society and telecommunications technologies sector. cooperation in these sectors also has positive impacts on russia's neighbouring countries. scientific and technical cooperation also promotes the exploitation of the immense natural resources of russia's north-west, which is of great importance for the future development of russia as well as the european union. at the same time, i hope that the development of scientific and technical cooperation will target concrete cooperation projects on areas where they are needed, and in particular improve the implementation and effectiveness of projects financed by the rtd framework programme and the tacis and interreg programmes. the practical projects need to be coordinated more effectively, their adequacy improved and the definition of deadlines improved. it will also be necessary to ensure that the projects undertaken are completed within the time limits, and the russian side must also fulfil its own commitments. projects in recent years have often been implemented inefficiently, deadlines have been exceeded excessively and some of the projects have even been stopped prematurely. this has somewhat dampened the enthusiasm for practical cooperation with russia. research results should be put to better use for the improvement of the russian environment and economy. i am convinced that the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation will help to achieve these objectives.
- (fi) mr president, the reform of the community's employment policy which began in 1997 is one of the biggest and most important things the european union has undertaken in years. although the main responsibility for the project naturally lies with the member states, without coordination at community level it would be politically impossible to bring such a far-reaching reform through the common market. reforms in european employment policy are really needed! the biggest problems are to be found in the basic structures of the member states. high taxation, large income transfers of a social nature and rigid wage policy often lead to a situation undermining society, where work is no longer an economically viable alternative for the individual. the framework for change is there. the common currency is an ideal environment for promoting employment. the strengthening of the internal market provides the necessary flexibility for the labour market and brings additional dynamism to the european economy as a whole. in addition, the convergence of economic policies in the euro area, which is the result of the common monetary policy, makes it possible to search for the best models, benchmarking. this implies, of course, that we have comparable indicators, which have already been mentioned several times here this morning. and these models, it might not be wrong to look for them outside the borders of the european union. the proposal on guidelines is quite worthy of attention and the rapporteur, mr menrad, has done an excellent job. i would like to stress in particular the measures to improve the job creation opportunities of smes. administrative burdens, tax burdens and overheads must be reduced, there is no other solution. i would remind you of the experience of the reduction of the vat rate in the services sector, which was duly adopted by the council but which the member states, with the exception of a few, do not now seem to be prepared to undertake. at least as far as the country i represent - finland - is concerned, i would have liked a different choice on this issue. i also find it somewhat problematic that the employment guidelines for the year 2000 are already being considered before the concrete measures of the old guidelines have been completed or even started. member states have committed themselves to implementing the guidelines in their national programmes. they must also be given the opportunity to do so.
in writing. - (sv) during the debate on the menrad report, several important issues related to equality between men and women were raised. i support the proposals which stress the need to take the case of young women into particular consideration when defining the efforts in the field of training applied to the information society. however, as i am opposed in principle to the setting of quantitative targets for the employment strategy, i could not support the proposal to reduce the wage differentials within five years by a specific percentage (amendment no 22). quantitative targets, particularly within the eu, give a misleading idea of the real employment potential of the union. nor are they compatible with the principle of subsidiarity. it is good to encourage member states to look for best practice, but this is not achieved by quantitative targets. i am glad, however, that so much attention has been paid to the question of equality between men and women.
- (fi) madam president, i think it is extremely important that we put the annual report of the court of auditors on the agenda. this annual bestseller has just been published and it would be a pity if parliament did not organise the debate in plenary for the simple reason that the press already knows about it. leaking information is an unfortunate event, but it happens regularly. i think we should discuss the report today and not save it for the corridor discussions, because we will have to come back to it sooner or later. (applause) i would like to thank
- (fi) madam president, it is essential that the european parliament resumes its action in favour of alexander nikitin, who is accused in russia of endangering the security of the country. it has been a tradition for us, we have supported him in his legal proceedings, we have followed this case regularly. we understand that now is the time to act because the trial will resume soon.
- (fi) madam president, the draft legislation under consideration is extremely important for the fight against air pollution. it directly affects the quality of the air we breathe, i.e. the nitrogen dioxide and ozone levels. all this has an effect on acidification and eutrophication. the aim is also to reduce the amount of harmful microscopic particles in the air. however, all this can only succeed if the actions proposed in the directive are implemented as quickly as possible. the most important challenge is transport, which is growing rapidly and is expected to double between 1990 and 2006. i think mr lange is quite right in proposing that heavy goods vehicles should be included as soon as possible in a community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from road transport. the race against emissions must be matched by an acceleration in the implementation of measures to reduce them. i therefore strongly support the rapporteur in saying that new limits must be set as soon as new techniques allow and not just when member states adopt them by chance. in a market economy, money is king. that is why we must also promote environmental limits financially. tax staggering has played a major role in the introduction of green fuels. the use of tax rebates as an incentive to renew heavy commercial vehicles is fully justified, as are the tax benefits for environmentally friendly vehicles; the aim is to speed up the introduction of new, less polluting vehicles. i would like to talk about a change that costs nothing. you are certainly witnessing situations every day where trucks, buses and commercial vehicles leave their engines running when nothing is moving. let's calculate how much air pollution could be reduced if the engines were shut down. it costs nothing. this is a matter of conscience.
- (fi) madam president, mr lange has drawn up an excellent report which will lead to substantial action on air quality. our group fully supports his report. trucks and buses are polluting the atmosphere more and more because we have done a lot in terms of emissions from passenger cars. we have also improved the quality of fuels and created tax incentives, as mrs myller has just said. at first reading, parliament successfully imposed strict limit values for emissions of particulate matter which are particularly dangerous to health. the environment ministers then took up parliament's proposal and we are now looking at a strict line for reducing industrial carbon emissions. the industry needs time - and will certainly get enough - to prepare for this technological upheaval. the engineers have been particularly inventive and i expect that the right techniques will be applied by the year 2006.
- (sv) mr president, the best way to highlight the importance of this convention is to say, as some speakers have done, that it is an important tool for the european union, both in terms of internal and external policy. we must do everything possible to ensure that the countries with which we cooperate fulfil their obligations under the convention. we know, as many speakers have said, that many countries have ratified the convention. but how many actually meet their commitments, and, for example, report on their actions? we must make this convention a real tool in our relations with the applicant countries. i think that progress was made when the rights of the child were mentioned in the report on romania. as you know, conditions were then laid down for the negotiations with romania. in this communication, which most of us are awaiting, as commissioner vitorino has said, we should also be able to know the amounts that the union is spending on children under the phare and tacis programmes. mr hans van den broek promised us some time ago that we would have this information, but we are still lacking it. i hope that it will be given to us at the latest by means of this communication. mrs gröner referred to the case of child soldiers. i think this is the most topical of all the issues relating to children's rights. we must support all those who are willing to work for the voluntary protocol which will be drafted next year. we must ensure that countries that tolerate the existence of these child soldiers do not in any way gain the same benefits. i regret that parliament has not been able to award the sakharov prize to a woman who has fought against the exploitation of child soldiers. i think it is particularly important that we should be concerned - in the context of the third pillar - even after the tampere summit, with how children are treated, and to ensure that refugee children are given special treatment.
- (fi) mr president, i should like to thank mrs haug for her well-prepared report. it continues the series of reports in which ms haug gives a detailed and praiseworthy analysis of the european union's own resources system. the report we are now considering is based on the conclusions of the berlin summit, which contain many compromises. the most important criterion chosen was the evaluation of the member states' contributions, whose harmonisation became more important than the guarantee of community funding. however, contributions as a percentage of gnp remain the cornerstone of the own resources system. the ceiling for commitments remains unchanged at 1.27% of gnp, ensuring that community revenue grows with inflation and general economic growth. so far, the system is clear, but after that! first, the share of the cost of collecting traditional own resources, i.e. customs duties and agricultural payments, is raised to 25%. this increase is in fact a clear payment favour granted to the countries which collect proportionately the most customs duties. it has been justified by increased efficiency of perceptions, but this is not a sufficient justification. the most politically difficult issue is the reduction of the uk contribution. the united kingdom has been a member of the european union for 30 years, so this cannot be a transitional measure. the same can be said of the agreement on the payment of this reduction. the reduction granted to germany, the netherlands, sweden and austria is no longer justified. the haug report proposes that a report on the review of the system be submitted before 2004. this will include examining reductions in contributions and considering the possibility of creating a new system of autonomous own resources, which should directly concern citizens, without increasing the taxes and fees to which they are subject. the liberals are in favour of this amendment, but i insist that taxes and charges should not be increased. perhaps one of the new resources could be environmental damage compensation taxes, because environmental issues concern everyone, not just the new member states. the key point, however, is that a new system in line with the one presented in the report can be fully adopted by the beginning of 2007.
- (fi) mr president, mr averoff's report on budgetary discipline is excellent and concerns the future implementation of the budget. the european parliament has always been in favour of budgetary discipline. this means that parliament has refrained from proposing additional expenditure, even though the available margins, the financial perspective and even the treaty provisions would have allowed for this. parliament has been particularly strict about staff increases. the report we are now considering concerns agricultural expenditure. agricultural expenditure is the largest item of expenditure in the european union and accounts for about 45% of the budget. they are therefore the most important issue of all, as far as the community budget is concerned. the agricultural guideline is used as a ceiling for agricultural expenditure. in practice, this ceiling is subject to an interinstitutional agreement, which is significantly lower than the guideline. this is yet another proof of the european parliament's sense of responsibility in budgetary matters. agricultural expenditure is a particularly sensitive issue within the european union, as agricultural policy is the only policy area where the european union directly affects citizens' incomes. in the implementation of agricultural policy, the european union has an exceptionally large responsibility. this concerns in particular the reduction of direct aid referred to in article 5 (7). we must not allow this to happen, because it affects the livelihood of individuals: this reduction is therefore a direct attack on constitutional rights. it's like suspending the payment of wages. agricultural expenditure is now divided into compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. zd aid and environmental aid, in particular, are of great importance in less-favoured agricultural areas. this means that the european parliament will have greater responsibility for agricultural policy. in this respect, the spirit of the report, which emphasizes cooperation between the council and parliament, is extremely positive.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the environmental dimension has become more important over the years, energy policy must continue to aim at ensuring that industry and individuals are supplied with energy at a competitive price. the environmental dimension also has a role to play in achieving this objective. however, the environment is not - and cannot be - the main objective of energy policy. the european union has done a lot in recent years to make the energy sector more sustainable. we have committed ourselves to significantly reducing co2 emissions by 2005. we have made efforts to increase the use of renewable energy sources and have expressed our firm intention to take into account the requirements of a sustainable energy policy in the enlargement process. we must recognize, however, that the requirements imposed on community energy policy are often contradictory. the aim of this report was to initiate a debate on nuclear energy and its viability as a means of production in the future. there is no denying that there is a contradiction between the anti-nuclear interventions, of which we have heard at least two, and the objective of reducing co2 emissions. the share of nuclear power in electricity generation should be kept to a minimum at the present level, and perhaps even increased, if we are to achieve the ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions to which you, dear friends, including mrs plooij-van gorsel and mrs ahern, and all the others in this room have committed yourselves. if the environmental dimension is taken into account adequately, this implies that member states should provide for replacement and renewal investments sufficiently in advance in their national strategies - as this is a matter for decision-making at national level. nor should we forget the objective of introducing a european energy tax. the reform must, however, be based on the principle that the overall tax burden on european industry must not increase. in this respect, i share the concerns of mr mombaur, who calls for any increase in energy taxes to be offset by intervention on other forms of taxation of business activities. it will also be necessary to ensure that the energy model does not prevent the continued exploitation of peat for energy production, which plays a very important role in finland.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this report is important, it is a professional work. it is, however, of a rather general nature and i would like to add something concrete; so i'm going to talk about gas and a little bit about russia. the share of renewable energy in the european union will double in ten years, from six to twelve per cent, and the development of combined heat and power plants - cogeneration - using coal and natural gas as fuel is now considered an important factor in reducing co2 emissions. in my country, the production of cutting waste - which is a source of energy recovered from cutting wood waste - is becoming competitive and is becoming an important part of energy production. studies show that the use of natural gas in the european union is increasing, but at the same time our natural gas reserves within the community will be exhausted within 10 to 20 years. russia is the largest exporter of gas to the european union and has the world's largest gas reserves; many of them are relatively close to home, in northern russia, siberia and the barents sea region. it is estimated that by 2020, i.e. 20 years from now, natural gas requirements will be around 150 billion m3. in russia, too, natural gas production will begin to decline in two years. so production will fall in both the european union and russia, while our needs will increase. we would need in our gas consumption area an additional natural gas equivalent to about four or five gas pipelines. that's the problem. we have a partnership and cooperation agreement with russia which would require concrete action to be implemented, and at the same time russia is in a confused situation which will hopefully develop in a somewhat clearer direction after the elections. we would have a common investment opportunity here, the gas we desperately need and for which the new satellite production areas in the north are quite close to us. in fact, one could say that russia will be forced to turn to its northern resources, if only because in the south the era of fighting and wars seems to continue. in other words, russia will turn to a region where these problems do not exist. the european union can also help with cooperation through the nordic dimension. i would also like to propose that the commission take specific measures and i would ask at this stage what the commission has done to solve the gas problem through russia.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr chichester rightly points out in his report, the integration of the environmental dimension into european energy policy must be strengthened, but in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the initial responsibility for energy policy lies with the member states. the environmental dimension must also be integrated into energy policy at local and regional level. that was also said in the report. the save and altener programmes, which have recently been revised, are the cornerstones of a sustainable and environmentally friendly energy policy. energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy must be increased and brought at least to the level required by the ambitious objectives of the european union. this involves research work, pilot projects, exchange of information and new technical solutions. it is necessary to ensure that the networks are also available to small businesses producing renewable energy throughout the european union. the biggest obstacles to increased use of renewable energy and energy savings are attitudes and ignorance. for this reason, information plays a key role in promoting more environmentally friendly energy production and use. all of this takes money. the small amount of resources available in the community budget for the promotion of a sustainable energy policy is to be deplored. these resources must be increased if the objectives are to be achieved. member states should also be able to show boldness in using tax and other incentives to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy. peat, a slow-cycle renewable energy resource, should also be given incentives. nuclear energy is presented in too favourable a light in the report. in my view, nuclear power is not the solution to the environmental problems of energy production. nuclear power is still needed, but safety and waste storage remain serious problems.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, we feel that it is very important to be able to discuss with you this question of the welfare of children. we had the pleasure of discussing this with you yesterday. the fact that we have included this provision in our agenda is also, in itself, a good way of celebrating children's rights. i know that the rapporteur, mrs gebhardt, had the same thought when drafting the amendments which i hope the commission will accept. it emphasizes that all judgments, all decisions in this area, must be guided by the concern to protect the child in the best possible way. thank you, mrs gebhardt, for these proposals. i also think, as all the other speakers have said before, that this provision is necessary in a europe which is now characterized by mobility. this is a necessity, because despite this mobility, discrimination exists. articles 16 and 18, for example, are necessary to ensure that the case cannot be reviewed following various cases of abduction. we know that the abduction of a child and the possibility of a review of a judgment are circumstances that can lead to particularly painful conflicts. i also agree with my party colleague mrs wallis that we must go further, on the one hand by supporting her amendments, and on the other hand i also hope that the commission will consider, in the light of the tampere summit, new possibilities for further progress on this issue. take the example of the child support dispute. i understand that they are not covered by this proposal, that is to say, the financial aspect of the dissolution of marriage and parental responsibility is not dealt with. in practice, however, they lead to problems which are also very difficult to solve. i would also ask all our colleagues to support us when our group votes in favour of amendment no 3 and mr lehne's opinion to the committee responsible, so that we can reform the nordic convention in this area. i hope that the nordic convention can be extended and pursue the same objective - but to do that we will also need the clarifications contained in the opinion of the legal affairs committee. in conclusion, i would like to say that the aim of this cooperation must be to ensure that the member states of the union have greater mutual confidence.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, thank you for this information. let me say that after receiving it, i feel in a similar situation to when you find out, for example, by reading the news in your country, that a hospital that has just been renovated at a cost of tens of millions is going to be closed. you said that 200 million euros had been spent on improving security under the phare cooperation programme. i think we need an honest assessment on this point. what did we do before? what has proved to be useless in the light of the perhaps more severe course of action which europe has taken in the accession negotiations? i think that we have, to some extent, devoted our efforts to stupid actions, to 'bembölian' acts, as they call them in my country of origin. i also think that our uncertainty about what we were legally allowed to do showed that our community needed some more energy provisions. this is a point which we shall be discussing in the coming days in connection with the intergovernmental conference. as regards the slovak bohunice nuclear power plant, it is clear that we need to know more about the actual state of the plant from the point of view of safety. unfortunately, none of us knows anything about this, since we do not have access to the same information as the commission. as regards ignalina, i would like to say that the information we have received does not seem satisfactory to me, for example in the light of the so-called wenra report, which says that we do not have a clear knowledge of the safety level of reactor shutdown systems.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, i thank you for your reply. the fact that the programmes can start as early as the beginning of 2000 is of extreme importance for the region concerned. community aid has a considerable influence on the development of the regions' economies, so there should be no interruption between the old and the new programmes. i would like to check again whether i have understood that these new programmes can be implemented as from the beginning of the year 2000, at the risk of the country concerned, provided, of course, that the applications have been duly submitted beforehand.
- (fi) madam president, mr high representative, mr commissioner, i believe that one of the lessons of the kosovo crisis is that international crisis management cannot be entrusted to nato alone in the world of the 21st century. in fact, the us leadership position is more problematic than it seems to some. another observation from kosovo: the military can sometimes be more savvy and realistic than politicians, so we don't necessarily have to fear the military. i would also say on behalf of the green group/european free alliance that the majority of our group seems to have accepted the idea that the european union could have a common crisis management capacity. but we want to set certain conditions and a certain framework. firstly, foreign policy must be coherent, the different sectors must form a logical whole that leads in the same direction and not in different directions. foreign policy must also be transparent. mr president, i must point out that i have been fighting personally for over two years against the council that you are leading, by non-military means, in the court of justice, in order to obtain a document on the compliance of member states with the criteria for the sale of arms. i hope that you will increase transparency in the council's activities also in the field of foreign policy. the other condition, of great importance, is that non-military crisis management must be greatly improved. what you said is quite true: progress has been made on this point during the finnish presidency. keep these two sectors of activity together. it is not necessarily a good thing that you have separated missions so that the high representative looks after military crisis management and a member of the commission looks after civil crisis management. they must be one. the third condition we are putting forward is that each operation must be separate and must be able to be the subject of a separate decision. member states should be able to decide on a case-by-case basis whether they wish to participate in these operations. and, of course, the criteria must be the same for all. we cannot accept that completely different criteria have been applied to kosovo than, for example, to chechnya. finally, the key question is how relations between the european union and nato will evolve. eleven of the current member states are members of nato, four are not. the european union must be prevented from becoming a genuine european pillar of nato. it is important that nato and the european union remain two separate bodies. such "asymmetry" can be conducive to world peace. it is not necessarily a weakness, it can also be an asset. (applause) i would like to thank
- (fi) mr president, i think that the decision taken by the european parliament and the council on the daphne programme for the period 2000-03 was extremely important. if only to ensure respect for the treaties, such a project must be welcomed. to achieve a high level of health protection, physical, mental and social well-being must be ensured. violence against children and adolescents and violence against women are complex problems, with serious and multiple health effects. this is not only a case of human rights violations, but also of obstacles to gender equality and progress. the fear of violence and harassment limits the freedom of movement of children, adolescents and women and their opportunities to participate fully in society. violence also has a considerable cost - economic, social and health - for individuals, for member states and for the community as a whole. it should also be remembered that a treaty on the rights of the child was examined in this chamber. this treaty emphasises the right of the child to safety and dignity. in my country, finland, a project to prevent violence against women, run by the ministry of social affairs and health, is already under way; it covers the period 1998-2000, and in this respect too the adoption of the daphne programme would be extremely important. the project aims to draw attention to violence against women, to strengthen anti-violence attitudes, to reduce the frequency of violence, and to establish and make more effective services for victims and perpetrators of violence. one way of achieving these objectives is to develop international cooperation and exchange information on best working practices and positive experiences, and to develop networking, particularly at community level. the eradication of violence is only possible if we actively work towards it.
- (fi) mr president, the resolution on chechnya drawn up by the political groups in the european parliament is, in my view, well-conceived. it is based on a clear principle, namely the recognition of the territorial integrity of russia. the russian government is also supported in that we condemn terrorism in all its forms. however, we also condemn the abuse of force and call for a political solution to the chechen question. we also insist that the civilian population must be protected and that refugees must be treated with all due care. our resolution is in line with our previous resolutions and also with the policy of the western governments. however, the line adopted by parliament is in flagrant contradiction with the public opinion of the citizens of the member states of the community. the european parliament's policy on the chechen question suffers from a defect: the western countries themselves have acted in such a way that they have lost the moral right to clearly condemn the mistakes of which russia is currently guilty. this is particularly evident in the recent article by russian prime minister putin in the herald tribune, in which he defends his government's action by referring to the example set by western countries. there is a heavy burden for the western countries to bear: the war against yugoslavia. the bombing began without sufficient thought of its objectives and consequences. in kosovo there was a war of liberation, with violence against the civilian population as well. with their bombing, the western countries intervened in this war, siding with one side against the other, when in fact they did not accept the objectives of the side for which they had entered the war. as land forces were not wanted or could not be used in this war, the result of the bombing was to turn a humanitarian and political crisis into a humanitarian and political catastrophe. if western policy were consistent, they should consider defending chechnya by military means if necessary, a hypothesis that no one can even imagine. instead, it is considered that russia has the right to defend its territorial unity by very brutal means. and russia, for its part, argues that it has the right to use military force to achieve a political objective that is important to it, as did the western countries in yugoslavia. despite its own moral burden, the european union must do everything in its power to resolve the chechen crisis in accordance with the guidelines set out here by the representatives of the council and the commission. if we want to establish a common foreign, security and defence policy for the european union, we must give it a sustainable moral basis. only then will we be entitled to ask others to act in accordance with these principles.
- (fi) mr president, the situation of refugees is intolerable and is not an internal matter of russia. russia is causing a humanitarian catastrophe of great proportions in its fight against soldiers and terrorists who have acted contrary to the principles of humanism. it must be remembered, however, and this has not been discussed in this chamber, that a separate islamic state was being formed between the caspian and the black seas. this is already something more serious, and we should also bear this in mind. it would be really stupid to isolate russia on the eve of the elections, because we want to support the democratic forces in russia. the last time it was isolated, it led to stalinism and dictatorship. i am in favour of sending a delegation to moscow in december on the occasion of the elections, as i have said, and of forcing russia to take part in a conference on peace in the whole caucasus region, a conference which will also have to deal with other problems than this particular problem, because in the caucasus region military operations are taking place in half a dozen states and the risk of the spread of these conflicts is quite obvious.
- (fi) madam president, the previous speaker concluded by saying that nature and human beings are being exploited. i, for one, agree with him. all that the millennium cycle represents is the ideology of free trade. we have seen what the free trade of capital brings. this is called globalisation. this is electronic capitalism. in reality, it was not free trade either, because the international monetary fund gave american investors guarantees for the risks they took and paid for the damage caused by free trade in capital. in the game of capital, there are no rules, and politicians are no longer able to act as arbiters. now we have the possibility to negotiate rules for trade in goods and services, and it is possible to ensure that the freedoms of capital no longer extend as systematic exploitation as far into the world as electronic capitalism. i personally support green protectionism because i want people to eat healthy food and to have it produced in accordance with the principle of sustainable development. we cannot call this protectionism: these are rules of survival. i also support the red protectionism which seeks to guarantee workers' rights and to prevent the use of unacceptable methods of work, such as child labour. in this respect, protectionism, viewed from the point of view of social protection, is also a code of survival.
- (fi) mr president, i too would like to thank mr schwaiger for his very well thought-out report. we are about to begin in seattle a process of great importance for the development and manageability of the world. the world also needs rules and standards, competition alone is not good, even if we are aiming through the wto process at a more efficient trading system. the challenge is considerable. the european union is championing a solution that promotes sustainable development in the third world and social justice. we must remain firm in this objective. although the liberalization of world trade means economic benefits and well-being, it is also necessary to remain critical of it. as far as food production is concerned, we should certainly talk about trade liberalisation, but also about the precautionary principle, preference for local production and encouragement of regional distribution chains. transparency in the food chain and the existence of well-defined control rules and liability reports are the best guarantee of food safety. the european union must clearly establish the order of priorities in the negotiations. it can be said in a general way that the profitability of european family farming is a guarantee of food purity. the most important issue in the wto negotiations is therefore to ensure sufficient aid to preserve profitability. this is why the existence of a 'blue box' alongside the 'green box' is essential for the preservation of the european model. agricultural or food safety issues should not be negotiated. while efforts are being made to reduce barriers to imports of industrial goods and services, this must not be at the expense of health.
- (fi) mr president, what is encouraging about the schwaiger report is first and foremost that the european parliament has been able to strengthen the european union's coherence in its negotiating objectives. the european union has committed itself through its previous decisions to the coherence of the different policy areas. trade policy, for example, must therefore be in line with community policies on developing countries and the environment. both areas are given special attention in the report and as a new member of the european parliament, i must say that this is a pleasant surprise. the report can also be seen as presenting a very balanced position on the relationship between wto rules and other multilateral treaties. in addition, the clear support for the emerging cooperation between the ilo and the wto promises even greater coherence in this area. once a working model has been found, it should also be applied to relations between the wto and other international organisations under whose auspices similar agreements have been concluded. the european parliament should also define the role of these multilateral agreements in wto dispute settlement procedures. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i welcome the fact that the aim is to incorporate the precautionary principle into the wto rules. the eu negotiators must be able to convince the other parties that the eu's objective is not protectionism but the protection of consumer welfare. the european union would be wise to invite ngos to discuss the wto as the negotiating cycle progresses. in addition to reinforcing the legitimacy of the european union's action on our soil, the global ngo circle can help our negotiators achieve the european union's objectives. experience has shown that in the ngo circle, the debate is very easily transferred from one continent to another. as the other parties are unfortunately still far behind, the eu needs the help of ngos in its efforts to make the wto an environmentally sustainable organisation, as well as one that promotes health and social welfare. with the seattle cycle, the wto's powers and power will be considerably increased, and for this reason the eu must ensure that the impacts of trade liberalisation and wto measures can be continuously assessed from an ecological and equitable perspective.
- (fi) mr president, the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report does not take sufficient account of the fact that the european union is rapidly expanding and acquiring pan-european dimensions. the helsinki summit will probably decide on the extension of the accession negotiations to include 12 countries. if turkey is granted the status of candidate country, we will probably soon have new applications for membership from the balkans and elsewhere. at the october part-session i said that the contradiction between enlargement and deepening of the european union could only be resolved if the european union organised itself internally, for example, in a system of onion-like layers or concentric circles. i proposed that the european union as a whole should be developed as an alliance of states, but that the heart of the union should be a true federal state. as an external circle of cooperation and integration, i proposed the council of europe, to which we could entrust new tasks. i am glad to see that my ideas have been favourably received in principle by the liberal group. however, this has not yet been reflected in the amendments proposed by our group in this report. i cannot support the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report. it aims to further the development of the european union as a federal state and takes no account of how the large-scale enlargement of the european union would affect the evolution of the institutions.
- your answer was interesting. i would like to continue with a debate we had yesterday on nuclear safety in eastern europe. i wonder: do you think the commission has the legal basis to implement what it has said in its reports, including making the closure of the slovak nuclear power station with a complicated name beginning with 'b' - bohunice, and the bulgarian power station, a condition for these countries' entry into the eu?
- (sv) as you said in your reply, 30 april 2001 is the deadline for adopting these principles. it's a long and difficult process. the citizens and members of parliament are very concerned about the lack of concrete signs from the commission that it is prepared to put forward such a proposal during the finnish presidency, because we would have liked to have started preparing it. as i said in the question, we know that coreper has asked the interim commission to draw up a proposal. what information do you have on the progress of this work? it is for the commission to make a proposal. i think we should put pressure on the commission, because we have already allowed enough time to pass. we know that reflection papers have been circulated and debated by several bodies. i am very much afraid that we cannot meet the deadlines if we do not ask the commission to speed up its work.
- (fi) madam president, there is a problem with me in yesterday's minutes, i am referred to as 'mr'. the explanations of vote for the avilés perea report on the daphne programme contain the words 'mr kauppi'. i'd rather it be "madam".
- (fi) mr president, the report by mrs rühle which we are now considering is excellent, because it stresses the principles to which the european parliament has shown itself committed when we developed the administration. the reports by mrs rühle and mr seppänen both have the same theme, the community guarantees for loans granted by the european investment bank. the eib is an excellent instrument for financing concrete projects. the eib's high solvency allows it to raise capital on the market at favourable rates and redirect it to areas deemed necessary by the european union. the need for direct aid is thus reduced. for loans managed by the eib on behalf of the european union, a budgetary guarantee of 70% of the total value is granted. the question now is whether to lower this rate. the commission proposes 60%, but the council has so far decided on 65%. the european parliament must therefore first take a position on what this figure should be. the coverage rate was set on the basis that the european union would bear the political risk of financing the projects in the first place. this means that if the political situation in the country concerned develops as expected, the only risk associated with the loan is financial risk. this is usually borne by the lender. in reality, the community guarantee also involves a part of the financial risk, because these two aspects are difficult to distinguish clearly. the guarantee rate is of course important in that it affects the amount of loans that can be guaranteed with the sum of €200 million in the financial perspective. in practice, the change in the rate is unlikely to have any significant effect other than to regulate the total amount of loans, as it is not very often that guarantees have to be honoured. mr president, with these reservations, i support the reports by mrs rühle and mr seppänen.
the rapporteur. - (fi) mr president, turkey was struck by an earthquake in august which caused a great deal of damage and suffering. it is a real seismic storm, which continues to hit turkey. since august, the living conditions in the country have been marked by insecurity. turkey has been the subject of much discussion in the european parliament. turkey is likely to become a candidate country at the european summit in helsinki in december; as such, it will be expected to meet the criteria set by the european union in copenhagen. turkey has often been criticized here. we all know the problem of democracy in turkey, which is the kurdish problem. there are millions of citizens in the country who do not enjoy full political rights, and one of their leaders is in prison awaiting a death sentence. there are other problems too, including cyprus. we shall leave aside all political problems when we consider this report. what we are talking about here is humanitarian aid to turkey, aid to enable it to repair the damage of this terrible natural disaster. we must now concentrate on the question of how to help turkey. this assistance is urgent; the european parliament must therefore decide on the matter tomorrow. the commission proposes, at the council's request, that a decision be taken to grant turkey a eur 600 million global loan facility from the european investment bank in accordance with the bank's usual criteria. the eib has studied turkey's capacity to receive this loan and to use the funds to repair the damage caused by the earthquake. turkey has such capabilities. it is prepared to use the money specifically to repair the damage from the earthquake. the european parliament is being asked for an opinion as soon as possible because the eib is prepared to lend €180 million as early as this year. for this loan, a provisioning of the guarantee fund for external actions of eur 16.4 million is required. the committee on budgets is prepared to see the sum transferred swiftly from the guarantee reserve to the budget lines of the guarantee fund in accordance with the usual procedures. now there is a problem linked to questions of institutional competence and which has nothing to do with the earthquake in turkey. we all agree on the need for humanitarian aid and we consider the council's decision to release eur 600 million of eib funds for this purpose to be a good decision. the problem is the strict framework imposed by an agreement between the institutions on the guarantee fund. the guarantee fund can cover up to eur 200 million per year. at present, a 70% global guarantee is granted to the eib, the council has already decided to reduce this guarantee to 65%, and, when voting on the rühle report, the european parliament will probably adopt a further reduction to 60% in accordance with the commission's proposal. that is why i have tabled three amendments to the commission's proposal, the first of which concerns the general ceiling of the guarantee fund and the other two the harmonization of the guarantee rate with the rühle report. we will have a problem in the future if the special loan to turkey which we are now considering uses so much of the guarantee fund's resources that it would presuppose the possibility of granting loans for other unforeseen situations of the same kind. that is why we must reach an agreement with the commission to propose an increase in the ceiling of the guarantee fund in the event of unforeseen aid needs similar to the humanitarian catastrophe we are now facing. i have been in touch with the commission on this subject through this report and i would like the commission to provide answers to the questions put to it today. the commission is invited to clarify the general situation as regards the use of the guarantee fund and to provide more precise forecasts as regards the use of the margin available within the reserve. depending on the commission's replies, the committee on budgets and the european parliament may consider it necessary to table an amendment reminding the commission of the possibility of revising the ceiling of the financial perspective. this amendment may be adopted if the commission's reply is not satisfactory. i believe that the time has now come for the commission to take a position on the points of view presented in the report.
the rapporteur. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the spring we adopted a ceiling for transfers from the guarantee reserve to the guarantee fund. then, in the summer, an unexpected event happened, the earthquake in turkey. we have decided, and this is a good thing, to provide humanitarian aid to turkey through the european investment bank. but this poses a technical budgetary problem, because we are now approaching the ceiling for these transfers to the guarantee fund because of this unforeseen event. if something new and unexpected happens again, we will be forced either to exceed this ceiling or to reduce other financial aids. we have drawn the commission's attention to this problem and received a very vague answer to the questions we asked, but we cannot risk the granting of this financial aid. it will be in danger if we adopt the proposed amendments. so, although the commission has not given us fully satisfactory answers from a technical point of view, i withdraw these amendments, while at the same time pointing out to the commission that there is a problem to which we have drawn attention and that we would like the commission to take this problem into consideration in the future and propose that in the event of unforeseen funding needs the ceiling may be exceeded.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the adoption of the prevention of drug dependence as a priority area of the european union's internal and external action is of paramount importance. this must also be clearly stated in community texts. rules are useless, however, if they are not really effective. it is therefore essential to devote efforts to both cooperation between developing and industrialised countries and to the networking of the countries of the european union. there is no shortage of viable projects and programmes within the european union. examples include the alcoholism and drug abuse prevention group working in finland under the auspices of the centre for research and development in the social and health sector, or the pompidou group, a council of europe cooperation body founded in the 1970s on the initiative of president pompidou and responsible for drugs, which has many projects in preparation on reducing supply and demand of drugs. what we need now is a strong and clearly stated political will to make the exchange and comparison of information as efficient as possible. it is not simply by drawing up texts and projects that results will be achieved; it is only through concrete action that we can ensure the best possible welfare for people.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, i must say that it is a good thing that the industry council unanimously adopted a package of measures to eliminate the distortions of competition caused by korea at its meeting last week. it is to be hoped that these measures will also have an effect, because the action of south korea is really endangering the chances of european shipyards to succeed in a situation where competition is already quite intense and tough. as the finnish minister for industry and trade made clear at the meeting, the european union should not, however, respond in the same way to south korea's action, i.e. to the idea of not giving up aid for shipbuilding. to quote the minister: to continue to grant aid would be to shoot the european union in the foot. this is probably exactly what the south koreans are waiting for. the commission has long had the objective of abandoning aid to shipbuilding as it currently exists and this objective must not be abandoned. the idea is to replace shipbuilding aid with new types of investment and environmental aid schemes and to give more aid to research and innovation, which our colleague mrs langenhagen has spoken about very well. with these new measures, the commission aims to support the development of a more environmentally friendly and safer european fleet, as decided when the guidelines on state aid to maritime navigation were drawn up in 1997. i welcome such a policy - provided it is also translated into action. i would particularly like to remind the commissioner that during our accession negotiations the european union promised to take account of finland's geographical remoteness and climatic conditions when deciding on the objectives of maritime policy for the whole continent. in july 1999, the finnish ministry of transport notified to the commission an interest subsidy scheme aimed at encouraging the purchase and necessary repairs of cargo vessels which are essential in northern climatic conditions, are suitable for ice navigation and are safe and environmentally friendly. there is a broad national consensus in the finnish parliament on this issue, as is also shown by the fact that the parliament, contrary to its custom, has included acquisition authorisations in the 1999 budget on its own initiative. commissioner liikanen, as a former minister of finance, certainly understands the significance of this detail. however, it now appears that the officials of the competition dg are determined to regard the scheme in question as aid to shipbuilding, whereas the scheme does not affect the competitive position of the shipyards in any way, because the ship receiving the aid can be ordered in any country. this was also stated, according to a letter from the commission dated 4 may 1999, by officials from dg vii, who drew attention to the fact that the aid was not linked to community aid for shipbuilding. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commissioner how the commission intends to ensure that shipping in the northern regions develops in an environmentally friendly and safer way if it does not allow the development model it has set up to be respected. although it has been clearly decided to abandon shipbuilding aid, recent developments in south korea must not lead to the confusion of the old shipbuilding aid with measures in line with the 1997 guidelines, the objective of which is not in the context of competition policy but is purely in line with the doctrine of sustainable development and 'safety at sea'. in conclusion, commissioner, how can a member state put in place a maritime policy if it cannot rely on the commission's instructions? how has the commission taken account in its recent correspondence with the finnish government authorities of the indications contained in the act of accession concerning maritime policy?
- (fi) mr president, the problem we are discussing at the moment is the result of globalisation. in six years, the south koreans have tripled the capacity of their shipbuilding industry. they didn't do it with their own money, they did it with borrowed money. they were offered american money, it was american banks that offered it in order to make the greatest possible profit by lending this money. after that, the south koreans neglected to pay back these loans that were offered to them with great insistence. these loans were guaranteed, however, because the imf provided money to south korea so that the us banks could collect their debts and the loans they had made could be honoured. in other words, the imf is partly responsible for the current situation. south koreans were also advised to devalue their currency, because that was their way out of the economic crisis we had caused them. they devalued their currency by several dozen percentage points, which resulted in an improvement in their competitiveness. they did not have to cut wages to improve their competitiveness, they did only what we advised them to do: devalue their currency. this is how south korea is doing in the world we've created for it. all the politicians who whine and complain about the problems facing us in south korea are wrong if they claim that globalization is inevitable, that nothing can be done about it; this is precisely the globalisation that politicians cannot do anything about unless they want to. if the hourly wage in south korea has fallen from six to four euros, it is not the fault of the south koreans. we are responsible for this, because we are the ones who caused the south korean economic crisis. and now the crisis has spread from south korea to our own shipyards. i hope that in this case the politicians will show more credibility and also tackle the root of the problem, not just the consequences which have been much discussed here. we have tried to mitigate the effects, but they will not be mitigated unless we deal with the causes.
- (fi) mr president, madam president-in-office, in addition to what has already been said here, the helsinki summit is expected - someone has already alluded to this - to promote environmental protection and to make environmental protection a part of all european union activity. we must take a big step forward in this respect, because we know how difficult it has been to cut short these developments which are harmful to the environment, and we expect you to show determination and to achieve concrete results in the field of transport, industry and agriculture. as far as agriculture in general is concerned, the battle currently being fought for the harmonization of indirect taxation certainly shows eloquently that no progress will be made if we continue to insist that decisions be taken unanimously. i have followed the struggle of the council presidency with the city of london bankers and i am convinced that this struggle will remain unresolved as long as it is not possible to take decisions on taxation by qualified majority; this is an important task for the next intergovernmental conference. otherwise we will let the market decide on taxation, and that is certainly not what we are seeking. however, concrete decisions on common security are the issue that will have the most lasting implications after the helsinki summit. i would like to thank in particular the president-in-office of the council for having so rightly emphasised that civilian and military crisis management are mutually supportive and must be considered and decided together. the european union does indeed have that advantage you mentioned, compared with nato, for example. the european union is basically a civilian organisation, and if it now implements military crisis management, we can expect it to heed this wisdom: it is better to prevent crises than to cure them with weapons. this is also possible, if there is no other way. you said that civilian crisis management requires police forces; i would add that other groups of ordinary people, competent in their profession, psychologists, social workers, even plumbers and bricklayers, may also be needed in this kind of non-military crisis management. our group was very pleased to learn that mr xavier solana, the high representative of the european union for the common foreign and security policy, has started to study the european parliament's initiative on the creation of civilian crisis management troops. madam president-in-office, you mentioned the millennium declaration. the council has also been caught up in the millennium fever. you have advocated transparency, but this statement is certainly one of the best kept state secrets; perhaps you could light our lantern a little and tell us what our mark will be on the millennium celebrations.
- (fi) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, we finns have a reputation among ourselves for not saying thank you, even when there is something to be thankful for, and, conversely, for being quick to criticize. i will therefore surprise the finnish representatives of the council by telling them that it can already be said that the finnish presidency is, in a positive way, historic. the tampere summit included internal affairs and police cooperation in community matters, with the aim of improving citizens' security. the fight against organised crime, and above all against the spread of drugs, will be strengthened once the decisions are translated into action. the european parliament is fully involved in the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights, which was agreed in tampere. the helsinki summit will address the issue of common crisis management and the resources to be allocated to it, as well as the timetable for a common capacity for action to become a reality. according to a recent poll, in my country a clear majority of citizens are in favour of it. in close cooperation with nato, this step towards a common security and defence policy, which is part of a wider package of civil, economic and political crisis management, is of great importance. the intergovernmental conference will kick off in helsinki, where institutional reforms, a prerequisite for enlargement, will be decided next year and an agenda will be set. in helsinki, a decision will also be taken on the status of the candidate countries - thus ending the artificial division of eastern europe into good and bad pupils. but shouldn 't we be sweeping in front of our own door ? what can the people of the countries wishing to become members of the community think of the blatant protectionism which undermines the community's economic foundations? what measures could be taken in due course to help the people of these countries, whose resources are relatively limited, and their businesses, which are competitive in the community? to give you examples: spain is still delaying the creation of the european public limited company, which is essential, the united kingdom is protecting the jobs of the city by refusing tax harmonization, even if only in terms of capital taxation, france prefers to find itself before the ec court of justice rather than liberating its electricity market in accordance with community regulations, the german chancellor violates all the rules of the game of the market economy and saves a construction company ripe for bankruptcy in order to score points in domestic politics, the beef war against england continues well beyond what is essential on the health front. how can we think of enlargement if the current territory of the european union continues to be fought over in a way that is contrary to the rules of the internal market? european competitiveness is not very bright even in its present state, the community market is not functioning properly and the process of levelling the disparities in consumer prices between member states has stopped in the emu area. the examples i have given do not exclude the possibility that there may also be breaches in the country i represent. all i wanted to say was that the objectives for the future that will be set in helsinki are a good thing, but that the present house of europe must also conform to community rules.
- (fi) mr president, two themes will be particularly important at the helsinki summit: the enlargement of the european union and the launching of the intergovernmental conference. since we already adopted a long resolution on the igc at the previous strasbourg session, we should have focused on enlargement this time. unfortunately, the joint resolution drawn up by the groups contains only a few paragraphs on enlargement. the european liberal democrat and reform party has drawn up amendments which would complete and improve the common text. we want, among other things, the commission and the council to draw up an overall strategy linking the enlargement of the european union and future reforms to a wider pan-european context. in our view, different models of integration with different degrees of integration should be considered and efforts should be made to establish a concentric union in continuous development, with a federal core and a less integrated outer layer. we also propose that the european union use the council of europe and the osce as a forum for pan-european cooperation. we hope that our proposal will receive your support.
- (fi) mr president, madam president-in-office, the last ten years in europe have been years of change. thanks to the determined policy of the european union, the process of change that began with the upheavals of the autumn of 1989 has now entered a phase of controlled progress. we have set milestones in the evolution of europe, but there is still work to be done. the intergovernmental conference, the implementation of the common foreign and security policy and the achievement of enlargement in a controlled manner are things that require thorough preparation in both the candidate countries and the member states. these themes form an important part of the agenda of the helsinki european council and, as has been said here, this is a dynamic which, if the helsinki summit is a success, will make history. the importance of these issues makes it essential that the european parliament also engages in a thorough debate. for we are now in a situation where, for the first time, the treaty of amsterdam must be taken fully into account at a meeting of the european council. the excellent speech by the president of the council gave a detailed overview of the problems and challenges of the common security and defence policy. it should also be noted that the european summit in helsinki will define more precisely the policy of the european union's northern dimension and will thereby enable northern europe to participate more effectively in the instruments of stability and security. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. respect for fundamental rights and the pursuit of social equality are the best defence policies for achieving social stability. the european employment policy and the guidelines for employment policies in 2000, which form part of it and will be discussed at the helsinki summit, remain at the top of the community agenda. the defence of democracy and the fight against extremism can only flourish in a context of social justice; this means, among other things, that unemployment must be overcome. i would like to conclude by expressing my sincere congratulations to the presidency for having succeeded - without touching the rules - in an unprecedented way in making the decision-making process of the european union and in particular of the council more transparent. let us hope that the presidencies to come will continue along this path.
- (fi) mr president, the annual report in question is an important and welcome initiative, the value of which is enhanced by the fact that in the recently concluded forum on human rights, which was organized on the initiative of the presidency, non-governmental organizations were able to be present as full partners. it is an important practice, which should become a tradition. in the field of human rights, there is always a mutual evaluation of different values and there are 'horizontal' tensions between different human rights. since the end of the cold war, they have been more dramatically manifested in the respective importance of both the classical rights relating to freedoms and collective rights, such as economic, social and cultural rights. the trend has been rapidly towards the weakening of collective rights, which are characteristic of the welfare state in particular. among all human rights, however, freedom of expression occupies a special place, because without a free and independent information system, other human rights and fundamental rights cannot be realised and serious human rights violations, such as crimes against humanity, cannot be effectively exposed. as the president of the council said, reports of human rights violations are common in the news. free and independent media are also vital conditions for civil society. it would therefore be appropriate, in the monitoring of human rights by the european union and the reports made thereon, to give greater prominence to the realisation of freedom of expression, the guarantee and improvement of journalists' rights and the opportunities for the exercise of their profession and to the monitoring of these issues, for example by devoting a separate chapter or part to them. in developing the human rights dimension of the european union, we must, as mrs halonen said, be consistent, but we must also be balanced. there must be a balance between the different types of human rights, between the pillars mentioned by commissioner verheugen and between the institutions. the european union cannot, from the top of its ivory tower, develop its own human rights culture without concern for others, in such a way that this balance is compromised.
- (fi) mr president, the essential thing in human rights policy is coordination and consistency. the european union should now focus on the effective implementation of the treaties. implementation should focus on three main areas: monitoring of the human rights situation, the implementation of human rights, and human rights policy structures. the european union must develop monitoring mechanisms to monitor the human rights situation both within the european union and in third countries. this monitoring should lead to a large-scale assessment of the human rights situation. the evaluation will include analysing the human rights situation, deciding on measures to improve the situation, monitoring the impact of these measures on the situation and assessing their success, and drawing up a public report on the evaluation and its results. it is important that the reporting of the internal problems of the european union be at least as effective and as open as that of third countries. in recent years, there have been reports of police violence within the european union, often affecting people from outside the european union, deaths in prison cells and discrimination against sexual minorities. the shortcomings in the protection of refugees are perhaps the greatest intra-community human rights problem. the policy of the european union and the member states on refugees is not as good as can be expected from economically developed countries. the refugee and asylum issues are primarily security and control issues in our country. the practice is in contradiction with the obligations enshrined in the geneva convention. the eu's common strategy for russia must focus on human rights. the realisation of human rights is one of the greatest challenges in attempting to increase welfare and stability in russia. the human rights situation in russia is alarming at the moment. security, stability and the sustainable development goals linked to the nordic dimension are of secondary importance if human rights are forgotten. it is time to put into practice the european parliament's idea of a body to be set up within the commission to monitor the implementation of human rights policy, a body that would improve the implementation of human rights and draw up reports on human rights issues. respect for human rights and the guarantee of minority rights are essential conditions for membership of the european union. for human rights and minority rights to be taken seriously as accession criteria, these human rights criteria, as well as the obligations of candidate countries towards their minorities, should be given a place in the accession negotiations similar to that of the other fundamental criteria.
- (fi) mr president, in the gulf of finland, off the coast of finland as well as near the coast, nutrient levels have been found to increase in the westward direction, reflecting the share of russian discharges in the baltic situation. however, new information has recently been collected on analyses in the immediate vicinity of the coast in shallow coves in the baltic sea. these analyses do not reveal a trend towards an increase in the nutrient content towards the west; on the contrary, the areas with high nutrient content clearly reflect local influences: agriculture, industry, secondary summer residences. particularly high nutrient levels are found near rivers that flow into the sea, indicating a large-scale movement of nitrate and phosphate compounds from agriculture from land to the sea. nutrient overload has significantly greater impacts on very closed coastal ecosystems than in high seas areas. for this reason, many water areas close to the coast need to be restored. coastal areas are particularly important for human activity and the environment. therefore, all measures that significantly reduce local emissions from agriculture, habitat and recreational use are of paramount importance. the measures to protect the baltic sea therefore require constant development, small-scale measures, which are also mentioned in annexes iii and iv to the helsinki convention which we are currently examining. the report that has been drawn up also proposes that the commission prepare an analysis of the consequences that amendments to annexes iii and iv may have on community legislation. in addition, the question should be asked whether the legislation in preparation (e.g. agenda 2000) may affect the community's commitments under the helsinki convention. the reconciliation of environmental aspects, efficient agriculture, economic policy, recreational use and, among other things, enlargement, all in a way that ensures the development of the baltic sea, is naturally a great challenge for both administration and policy. conscious effort is needed to be consistent. perhaps the nordic dimension initiative could offer a comprehensive perspective on the baltic area, bringing together and discussing all these important policy areas in a harmonised way. i would like to believe that if the nordic dimension works satisfactorily, it will provide a forum in which it would be natural for the european union to invite other important actors from the baltic point of view to participate, for example. the nordic council, for example, already has a very long experience of implementing environmental policy in the nordic countries and neighbouring areas. the nordic council is involved in the organisation of the baltic parliamentary conference, in which all the countries bordering the baltic sea take part. it would be natural for the european union to engage in a close dialogue with these countries. the nordic council took the initiative and expressed the wish for such a dialogue with the eu. i hope that the nordic dimension can be seen as a good model for ecologically sustainable and comprehensive regional development, and that this can also be seen in other regions of the european union.
- (fi) mr president, the replacement of the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the baltic sea area by the new convention in 1992 is an important step towards improving the state of the environment in the region. the new convention covers the whole of the baltic sea up to the coast of the surrounding states. in addition, and importantly, the signatory states commit themselves to take action in accordance with the convention throughout the whole river basin, which considerably extends the effective scope of the convention. the helsinki convention has been a pioneer in multi-stakeholder cooperation between the baltic states. there are now many actors in the region whose cooperation extends to all areas of life, from the economy to culture. the tradition of active trade from the hanseatic league era is thus being revived and the baltic will soon become an inland sea of the european union. environmental cooperation in the baltic region is an element of the european union's northern dimension policy. when we are asked, as is often the case, what this policy of the northern dimension means in practice, it is, for example, a concern for the fragile environment of the northern regions. the commitment to protect biological diversity in the convention is a useful complement to the baltic fisheries treaty. looking ahead, it would be good to ask how the baltic region's environmental protection structures could be organised in a simple and effective way. personally, i believe that helcom could provide a framework not only for the core mission itself, namely the protection of the marine environment, but also for the implementation of the baltic agenda 21 programme and possibly for the coordination of rational regional planning. overall, in the long term, the aim could be to extend the helsinki convention to cover the whole baltic area, with the aim of respecting the principle of sustainable development in all practical actions. the new convention could also serve as a model for other regions.
- (sv) mr president, everything that has just been said by previous speakers is important and true, namely that the baltic is a sick sea, and that the eu must now assume the heavy responsibility of remedying it. all necessary measures must therefore be taken to improve the present situation. i think that our colleague mrs myller has made a number of interesting points in her speech which we should bear in mind. i think it is important that we look at the possibilities for renewing the work of the baltic sea environment protection committee by combining it with the directive on the ecological quality of water which we are also discussing in this house. i have tried several times to bring this competence to the fore, that is to say, to have us examine these two cases simultaneously and to consider how the work of the helsinki commission can be applied effectively to this problem. i hope at least that those who are present in the chamber can come together to discuss the matter. even annex iii, which deals with agriculture, does not seem to me to be of such a nature as to give us any hope of anything new in relation to existing environmental strategies and programmes. i hope, however, that we can adopt an ambitious target on agriculture and the environment in helsinki next week, as has been said before. as we look to renew ourselves, it is also important that we introduce transparency to the public in the work of the helsinki commission. we were therefore very disappointed to find that the results of the work on the hot spots had not been published for about a year, because sweden had opposed such publication. this slightly tarnishes an otherwise well-done work. i would also like to say that the establishment of port reception facilities is of paramount importance. i think we must be very careful not to compromise the content of this convention and not to try to achieve something which goes further but is in fact the enemy of good.
the rapporteur. - (fi) mr president, the purpose of this directive on the marketing of forest reproductive material is in fact to merge two earlier directives into one directive. furthermore, progress and research have advanced considerably over the decades, and for this reason too it is naturally timely to check these things. the new member states, sweden, austria and finland have also doubled the eu's forest reserves. for these reasons, it is very good that these checks and corrections are being made. in addition, it is also a harmonisation with the corresponding oecd systems. this is also a good thing and will make it possible in the future to market this reproductive material beyond the community's borders, which is not to be neglected. the materials in question are classified into four categories; there used to be two. this now provides a kind of certificate, a guarantee that the right equipment is delivered to the right place. this ensures that no mistakes can be made - mistakes that the large nordic forestry countries have also experienced. the origin and the regions of origin must also be defined on a map. the maps must be sent to the commission and a complete list of basic forestry equipment must be drawn up. during the committee's examination, the committee on agriculture and rural development made a number of amendments, mainly concerning the date of implementation. the commission's proposal was too tight a timetable, and for this reason the date of entry into force of the directive was postponed until 2003, when the member states will be able to bring their legislation up to the level required by the directive. a transitional period also had to be taken into account in the case of certain countries, so the transitional period was extended by two years for countries where it would otherwise have ended. in some countries there are considerable stocks, because good seed production years only come every ten or fifteen years, and to avoid running out of seed, it is necessary to store it for a very long time. the fact that we could use these stocks to the limit was very important and was also taken into account in this report. in addition, there was a lot of talk about genetic resources; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the course of the year. the commission has also taken account of plant health and plant health related modifications through this proposal. if i understand correctly, two amendments will be added to the report in the vote tomorrow; let me briefly comment on them. i can support amendment no 23 as rapporteur if four words are added to the introductory part, where the text is amended: 'the special climatic conditions of certain alpine or mediterranean regions and of the northern regions'. if these words are added, i can support this amendment as rapporteur. as for amendment no 24, which is also due to be tabled tomorrow, i would say that this amendment is already in article 4 (3) (a), which is a new paragraph, and has been added there specifically for this purpose.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, the most important step for the future of the euro will be when europeans have banknotes and coins denominated in this currency in their hands. the aim is to facilitate the introduction of the euro by allowing the euro and national currencies to circulate in parallel for a few months. parliament also supported pre-provisioning and wanted to remove the obstacles to rapid release. it now seems that the european central bank itself is gradually looking favourably on this objective. the goodwill of european citizens should not be underestimated. when germany was reunified, the westmark became the currency of east germany without the catastrophe that big bang skeptics also predict for the euro. in several countries, the euro could, with a few exceptions, be launched without a long transition period. in my country, finland, for example, the volume of coins and banknotes is the lowest in europe in relation to the gross national product. in addition, the number of credit cards is growing at a rate far greater than the population. we'd better support the big bang model. the big bang can only really cause problems at the level of vending machines. it is not possible to change all of them overnight, so the old currency should remain the means of payment at certain times, for example at the cash machines. the citizens must feel that the euro is useful to them and not a burden on their lives. at the moment, the profits are not visible. for example, in the area of payments and foreign exchange services in the euro area, progress is not satisfactory to citizens. the introduction of the euro must be done simply for consumers. we must limit the problems caused to particular groups. in the remote regions, we will have to do everything possible to ensure that the introduction of the euro goes smoothly. let us take the early prevention measures necessary to achieve these goals. the main issue for citizens is not the duration of the transitional phase but rather the question of how long banks will be able to exchange national banknotes and coins for euro without any charges. banks should offer free exchange for at least six months, even if the transitional phase is shortened.
- (fi) as a member from a baltic country, i would like to promote the protection of the marine environment in the region in every way. i am particularly in favour of the amendments on agricultural waste proposed in annex iii. i think that prevention of pollution is particularly important, but we must take account of the details that have changed, which i would like to mention now. the differences of opinion between the signatories on the implementation of the agreement on the protection of the baltic sea are immense. this is partly due to technical possibilities. the member states are strictly complying with the agreement, but in russia and the baltic countries there are many shortcomings in the collection of waste from ships. administrative control is not as effective as in eu countries. the renewal of the rules imposes significant investments on our industry, so it would be essential that these new rules should be used to achieve visible results in environmental protection. in future we should try to influence the new member states to adopt the right attitudes and use the right facilities.
- (fi) mr president, as regards the completion of the socrates programme, we can thank three people. the rapporteur, mrs pack, deserves the credit. finnish education minister maija rask also showed resolve in the hottest hours of the negotiating night in order to reach a compromise. the diplomatic skills of the chairman of the delegation, mr renzo imbeni, did the rest. it is good that we can now adopt this important programme for the citizens of europe. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the shortcomings identified in the examination of the multiannual programmes which were decided on in the context of the codecision procedure. there is no formal collaboration or mediation within the special committee and the committee on budgets in the context of the second reading. this weakens the position of parliament, because it is doubtful whether its demands can be brought into line with the financial perspective. i think we need to review the procedure here.
- (fi) madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, my group would first of all like to emphasize that the representatives of the finnish presidency have improved transparency and communication in their relations with the european parliament in many areas. finland has given us much better information than we have received from other presidencies, which is of course important, as relations between the european parliament and the council will be strengthened on the basis of the amsterdam treaty. the conclusions of the summit meeting note with satisfaction that the commission will finally submit a proposal in january 2000 on the general principles governing citizens' access to european parliament, council and commission documents. i would like to say that there have been leaks and that the public has been made aware of this project, which is a matter of concern. this does not serve the spirit of transparency, but rather tends to weaken it, and i would ask you to take this into account. the final proposal can certainly be amended further so that it actually increases transparency. on enlargement, i would say that we are very pleased that the council has finally agreed that each candidate country should be assessed on its own merits. that is what we have proposed from the beginning. it is now necessary to ensure that this progress is equally balanced in the negotiations and that the candidate countries pay sufficient attention to social security, gender equality, labour issues and environmental protection. as far as turkey is concerned, we assume that the european council means what it says, that is to say that the same criteria are applied to turkey as to the countries which have been granted candidate status. we assume that you are taking the question of the situation of the kurds very seriously. islam already has a strong tradition in europe, so we do not fear an enlargement of the european union in the future in terms of religious pluralism. we in the european parliament did not want to join those who wanted to define narrow limits for the europe of the future, thinking that islam was something that did not suit europe. we believe, on the contrary, that it can very well be part of europe. the majority of our group seems to agree that the european union should also develop military crisis management to prevent human catastrophes. we are not satisfied with the way in which civic discussion and public opinion have been taken into account in the european council and in the preparatory talks. we want to draw attention to the fact that foreign and security policy, like any other policy, must be democratic and you must engage in the discussion so that citizens know what the next steps in this process will be. we do not want the european union to become the european military pillar of nato. we want you to confirm non-military crisis management, because, as we all know, that is the wisest solution. conflict prevention by non-military means is becoming increasingly important and for every euro spent on military crisis management, the same amount needs to be invested in non-military crisis management. finally, your position on chechnya is a step in the right direction. i am sure that the european parliament's demands on the freezing of economic cooperation have had an influence and we believe that you will continue to think that this is not a situation in which we can act as if nothing had happened.
- (fi) mr president, a quarter of a century ago, at the time of the conference on security and cooperation in europe, the spirit of helsinki was a spirit of peace and cooperation. at the moment, it is a spirit of militarization of europe. the helsinki summit saw the militarization of the union taken into consideration in practice. the european union is in the process of creating a european army, although it is not officially called that. member states have committed themselves to relinquishing their own authority in favour of a european army of 50,000 men and have given the equivalent of an army corps that can be used by the eu. in addition, we will be training rapid reaction troops to intervene in wars for a maximum of one year. in amsterdam, we were talking about a common foreign and security policy. at cologne, there was already talk of a common security and defence policy. then, under the commission's auspices, some people began to talk about common defence. the words used show what it is. the eu has been turned into a military and war alliance. the participation of the defence ministers in the general affairs council meetings was formalised in helsinki. a standing committee on political and security affairs was set up in helsinki. after helsinki, the commanders of the armed forces of the various countries will form an eu military committee which will no longer be subject to any democratic control. it was also decided in helsinki to create a military staff, which will be an eu military planning body, responsible for espionage and mobilisation. for all this, we have begun to talk about the need to increase military spending. the eu is being given a defence dimension through new institutions, but joint military operations have not been recognised in the basic treaties as part of the eu's powers. these decisions must therefore be brought before the court of justice of the european communities. can prime ministers extend the eu's powers without parliamentary approval? the intention of the nato countries is undoubtedly to implement the decisions of the meeting held on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the military alliance. after the decisions of washington, the nato countries will be able to act outside the territory of the member countries. they have given themselves the right to intervene in other countries without a mandate from the un or the osce. at nato, this activity is called humanitarian intervention because it does not meet an international legal mandate. in the eu, this is called crisis management, which also includes peacekeeping. in helsinki, it was not decided to use the mandate to manage crises or impose peace. if the eu is militarized, it seems to be with nato mandates. the finnish presidency ends miserably from the point of view of maintaining the neutrality of a non-aligned state. if the meeting was historic, it was because the eu is being militarized. there were no surprises in helsinki as regards the agenda for eu enlargement and the intergovernmental conference. the russian attack on civilians in chechnya must, in our view, be strongly condemned and this was done in helsinki. we hope that portugal will be more successful than finland in the fight against unemployment.
- (fi) mr president, mr lipponen and mr prodi have given a good summary of the key decisions of the finnish presidency and the tasks ahead. i am satisfied with the way the finnish government has conducted its work and with the fact that major issues have either taken a big step forward or have been finally resolved, but it is clear that the good results of the finnish presidency stem from the desire of the whole union to develop the common european structure. if i think of certain disappointments, i do not blame the finnish presidency. some things just need more thought. on the railway tracks, trains do not all run at the same speed, and often those with heavy loads are slower. i am particularly pleased with the progress made in crisis management and defence. the core of the security of citizens in a democratic union, committed to a market economy and respecting the rule of law, includes economic growth and employment, internal security against crime, and a common external political and military security system. the decision to extend enlargement to 13 countries has put an end to an artificial division between the candidate countries. i note that the decision to include turkey among the candidates for membership also leaves this large and important country to decide for itself whether its application will be implemented. the nordic dimension has been tested by the open crises in kosovo and chechnya. i share mr lipponen's wish that russia should be a better member of the international community than it is at present, which would allow crossborder cooperation on the northern border of the union and russia, and thus make it possible to give substance to the northern dimension. the decision to promote all the possibilities of information technology to improve the union's competitiveness and the effort to make europe the world champion of the information society are an essential part of promoting economic security. in this respect, commissioner liikanen has a great and interesting task for the future. the disappointments include, once again, some important points from the point of view of the development of the internal market and the union's decision-making system. the drafting of the tax package, even the weak part of tax harmonization, has failed. it has not been possible to make any progress on the question of the european joint stock company and the war on meat, which does not respect european laws, is continuing. and finally, a little something, but important in itself. what has happened to the wada (world anti-doping agency), the controller and doctor of sports diseases, on which mrs viviane reding reported on 1 december and in which the union was to play an important role? i hope that the member states do not have any shameful secrets to hide in their desire to retain primary responsibility for the territory of the union.
- (fi) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, the helsinki summit will go down in history because of its conclusions. the meeting set the course for the future development of europe. the european union will have to change its borders decisively at the beginning of the next millennium. the step that has been taken - opening negotiations with six new candidates and accepting turkey as a candidate - is an essential element of european policy to strengthen the stability and well-being of our continent. at the same time, we must pay more attention to the question: how far is europe prepared to expand and according to what timetable? the pace of enlargement must be studied in the light of the own disposition of the candidate countries and the eu, if we do not want to cause serious disappointments to everyone. the challenges of the future of enlarged europe, or even of present-day europe, will not be solved at the next igc. we must prepare now to consider a broader agenda. it is important, however, to decide on the start of the new igc in order to resolve the questions that remained unanswered in amsterdam. in particular, the need for a wider adoption of qualified majority rules was also felt at the helsinki meeting. despite the failure in helsinki on taxation issues, we must move forward. we cannot prevent greater inequality between companies and citizens unless we achieve a minimum taxation of capital gains throughout the internal market. the european parliament has consistently called for greater transparency in all eu institutions. the lack of transparency concerned in particular the council's decision-making; the finnish presidency has introduced new practices to increase transparency and it is hoped that these will be stabilised before the actual regulations are drawn up. progress has also been made in environmental matters. the integration of environmental policy into all policy areas and the creation of conditions for a faster ratification of the kyoto agreement have been important steps forward. i must mention, however, a disappointment in the autumn: the difficulties in reforming the membership and staff regulations. i know that the finnish presidency is not to blame. the commission has been active and willing to compromise, and the problems and the culprits are unfortunately more in this house.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner - unfortunately no minister is present! - i would like to describe the summit in maritime terms: as far as the major projects that have been implemented are concerned, the launch was a success; there was no friction in the launch. but even if the launch is successful, it is not known whether the ship is in good shape to sail, whether it will be able to wipe out storms that may break out. i am thinking in particular of enlargement. how are we gonna do that ? the summit conclusions express clear reservations about the candidate countries, which imply that several of them will not meet the copenhagen criteria even in the medium term and that the extent to which the economic criteria are met should be assessed in march. i think that in the further enlargement process it is important that we take note of how well the candidate countries are running their administration, fighting corruption and having stable institutions, rather than carrying out a detailed analysis of the acquis. indeed, it is not these questions that determine whether the union can expand and whether the candidate countries are ready to join the eu, but these are fundamental questions. we really need a different approach from the one applied at the last enlargement, when sweden, finland and austria became members.
the rapporteur. - (fi) mr president, the 2000 budget for the institutions other than the commission is very simple. the council accepted all the amendments tabled by parliament. the council also accepted parliament's own budget in accordance with the gentleman's agreement, that is to say, it did not interfere with it at all. i want to express my gratitude. in the next year's budget, however, we will have to take a position on an amendment which was not in the original budget. this situation arises from the fact that the court of first instance accepted the tdi group as a political group in parliament. according to parliament's rules, this group is entitled to have a staff of fourteen. the secretary-general found staff resources by recruiting 12 of the 14 needed. to meet the needs, the conference of presidents has introduced two new provisional posts c5 and one post a6. in order to ensure that the matter is dealt with in accordance with parliament's rules of procedure, the committee on budgets has asked that rule 183 be complied with. the president sent a draft budget which the committee examined yesterday and accepted in accordance with the report. this report is now being examined with next year's budget; the vote is due to take place tomorrow and we also want the commission to table an amendment in accordance with the procedure. at that time the council could, for its part, examine and accept the questions on wednesday, in which case the question could be dealt with with the rest of the budget on thursday 16 december. the procedure does not require an increase in resources in next year's budget, only the creation of posts. this shows how cumbersome and impractical our administration is. there are a total of 1 700 c posts in the european parliament. one part is free and another part will be freed. it is therefore urgent that the current administrative rules of parliament should be made more flexible, because they prevent proper and easy administration. the european parliament is going to increase the new posts in the budget under consideration, and in a way that is not appropriate with a disciplined treasury. not all, at least, if we compare the increases over the previous five years. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. let me say a few words about the budgetary procedure in general. the biggest problem this year was category 4, foreign equities. during the discussion a new budget line was added, first the 500 million for kosovo proposed by the european union summit, and later the fisheries agreement with morocco, turkey and the other items, totalling 190 million euro, i.e. almost 700 million euro in all, or 15% of the funding prospects. as the 1999 budget was already close to the ceiling, it was rather difficult to assume that such a large margin of flexibility could be found in other expenditure. there has been no desire among the council members, at least so far, to change the funding outlook, even by transfers between categories. as a counterbalance to the use of the flexibility instrument, there have also been calls for and are being made for substantial cuts in other expenditure. the committee on budgets therefore had to adapt the budget to the financing prospects. as a result, the funds allocated to kosovo amounted to just over eur 100 million. the council had already reduced its estimate from eur 500 million to eur 360 million. there are perhaps two conclusions to be drawn from this. before promising aid on behalf of the european union, it might be worth checking whether we have the means to keep our promises. it is probably worth thinking about before making such promises which mean cuts of the same order in other posts. this also applies to long-term programmes. if the eu intends to use €5.5 billion for the reconstruction of the balkans over the next six or seven years, that is €800-900 million per year, it would be important to know how the pledges will be financed. in this respect, the report by the committee on budgets is quite appropriate, because it emphasizes realism. secondly, the european union has two budgetary authorities, one of which is the parliament. parliament did not take on this task and this obligation; it was the member states who gave it to it. as one of the budgetary authorities, parliament also has a responsibility and this cannot be ignored in the work of the eu. the negotiations in the last few days and weeks have been, at least in my view, small talk, because each finance minister and even the secretary of state of the member states is dealing with much larger sums on his own. i do not want to criticize the working methods of the finnish presidency, which has certainly done everything it could to reach a common agreement. we need a budget for next year and we absolutely must get it. if no agreement can be reached, then the negotiations will have to be resumed next january. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the lead rapporteur, mr jean-louis bourlanges, on his excellent work, which is likely to continue, and to thank him and mr terence wynn for their good and constructive cooperation and support. i also thank the group coordinators, in particular mr böge of the epp and mr walter of the pse, for their good cooperation, and all the members of the committee. i would like to thank mrs suvi-anne siimes, the minister responsible for the budget, in particular. she really focused on her task and did it diligently. i would like to thank in particular mr heikki joustie, the official representative, who has done his job perfectly in exceptionally delicate international circumstances.
- (fi) mr president, we are all thinking today about the future of russia after this crisis. all wars have an end; we hope that it will be completed at the latest after the next presidential elections in russia. it is up to us today, ladies and gentlemen, to continue cooperation with russia. if we choose humiliation, the result can be bad, even dangerous. the tacis programme is good in the sense that it is close to the practical, close to ordinary citizens. i would like to touch on a few important points. firstly, it is essential that elections be held in russia within five days. secondly, we must continue this cooperation because it helps to strengthen democracy and civil society in russia. it's important to us as much as it is to the russians. thirdly, i think that aid should be directed more than today - i am thinking, for example, of the donations that have been given without specific allocation and to a large extent without control - towards ordinary citizens, towards the poor russians, and more towards moscow. fourthly, a major long-term project should be created within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement, projects designed to last for 20 years. we will then - independently of the russian leaders and the european union - need russian resources, especially gas, when the norwegian deposits run dry. in addition to gas, russia has the largest forest and mineral reserves in the world, and so on. we must look at infrastructure development and the environment and set up projects that go beyond the present crisis.
- (sv) mr president, commissioner, i should first of all like to point out to mr paasilinna that he should always speak without notes. that would make it easier for the interpreters, because he speaks too fast when he has a text. i would like to say that i am very humble in taking part in this debate, because i think that few people know what is right. we are very brave to want to end aid, but at the same time we admit, even if we do not say it as clearly as the council did, that there are many in russia who want us to end tacis aid. we may be turning our backs on that part of the russian population which would need us now and this shows how the sanctions weapon is generally not sharp. that is why i think it is extremely important that we adopt the compromise amendments mentioned by mr clegg, which mean that we can promote bottom-up development. one of the amendments also reminds us that we must help young people in the future and that in the long run this is the only way to do it. we must teach young people who do not know what the market economy is and who cannot learn anything about it because they have no books on the subject. we must give them the opportunity to learn. we cannot just go and take a few american models, but on this point, when it comes to helping young people and the future, i am firmly resolved.
- (fi) mr president, in view of the events in chechnya, pressure must be brought to bear on russia to find a political solution, but not at the expense of the tacis programme. the freezing or reduction of payments affects russian citizens and our partners. cooperation must be considered in the longer term. russia cannot be isolated, nor can it isolate itself. cooperation must promote the consolidation of civil society and democracy. the stigmatized failures in the implementation of previous programmes must be corrected. unfortunately, the projects are now only halfway finished. there were few results and it was the western consultants and local intermediaries who profited the most. the lack of coordination in interreg programmes has also prevented other results from being achieved. objectives need to be defined more carefully and practical implementation intensified. local partners must also be able to commit themselves more concretely to cooperation and promises must be kept on both sides.
- i regret to note that the commissioner does not accept amendment no 7. you are aware, however, that the european union is obliged to do so in accordance with the united nations convention on the rights of the child. you should be able to tell us what you're doing for the kids. secondly, i am also very concerned that you do not really offer much support to ngos, and that is exactly what many people involved in democratic projects say. they are included in the budget line for democracy and human rights instead of in other projects.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, the series of climate conferences that began seven years ago in rio have produced beautiful declarations, each with more ambitious objectives. however, the time for concrete action has not yet come, let alone begun. achieving these ambitious goals is not a child's play, as some in this house seem to assume. in its resolutions parliament must not stress that certain measures must take precedence over others but must immediately use all possible means to reduce emissions. i am referring in particular to emissions trading, which is an effective way of reducing emissions if it is provided with clear rules based on market mechanisms. it is also very important not to continue to exclude nuclear energy - a source of energy that does not emit co2 - from the flexible mechanisms. the argument that nuclear energy is not a sustainable energy production method in view of the waste it produces and that it cannot therefore be counted among the clean development mechanisms is simply untenable. the nuclear energy sector is the only energy sector which includes in its prices the costs of the entire energy production cycle and which therefore assumes full responsibility for the final and safe storage of waste. to those members who, debate after debate, continue to speak out against nuclear power, i want to say that if the current level of use of nuclear power were to continue, co2 emissions would immediately increase by 800 million tonnes a year. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to meet the needs of the world's population. the abandonment of nuclear power may therefore be a topic of conversation for the populists of the developed countries and this parliament, but it is nowhere else a realistic alternative, not even in the countries to which the european union will open up in the future.
in writing. - (fi) the experience gained under the first socrates action programme is good, especially with regard to student exchanges under erasmus. in practice, students who have used special-purpose exchanges have encountered problems that have been avoided through concentrated student exchange programmes. collaboration between eu countries must be promoted in every possible way where these are issues of importance to european citizens and where they support the accumulation of knowledge conducive to active citizenship and employment. in my view, the compromise reached between parliament and the council will achieve a number of objectives to the benefit of the european citizens.
in writing. - i just want to say that i am strongly opposed to the liese resolution on climate change as it has been approved by parliament. nuclear energy has contributed, is contributing and will continue to contribute significantly to the reduction of co2 emissions.
- madam president, there is a certain feeling of depression. i think that this does not at all fit in with the fine image that we have received from the conference on equal opportunities held in finland under the finnish presidency and under the leadership of my political friend eva biaudet. what happened to all the good resolutions ? it seems that we have to use the image of a bicycle in this discussion. the eu is a bicycle that must be kept moving all the time. if it doesn't, we don't move forward. i feel that this image can also be used to describe work after beijing. not much has happened, but on the other hand it is essential that we do not settle for that, without setting goals for the future. what do we want to have done by 2005? what do we want to aim for now? we are not satisfied with what has been done in the member states. we are not satisfied with what has been done at eu level, nor at the un. we also need to develop much more in terms of equal opportunities in other un organizations, in other un conferences. i am very pleased to see that the candidate countries are also invited to the conference, as the commissioner has reported. i think we are also unhappy with the profile of equal opportunities in our own parliament. look at the number of vice presidents or presidents, for example. that's not good enough. as far as the candidate countries are concerned, there is a lot of work to be done. communism denounced equal opportunities and women in the candidate countries do not believe in empty words about equal opportunities work, but this needs to change in many ways. poverty has particularly affected women in the candidate countries. we have heard of a terrible figure that the number of people living below the poverty line was 13 million before the fall of communism. it is currently 120 million.
- (fi) mr president, to echo mr bowis's question, i can say that apart from the animals, members of this house sometimes also suffer from changes in schedules and sometimes quite a tedious wait. i would like to thank the council representative for her kindness in answering my question again. the court of justice of the european communities has a striking use of its power. in order to give citizens a real opportunity to check that the procedure of the court of justice meets all the criteria of independence and objectivity required of judicial bodies, that procedure must be public. i thank the president-in-office of the council for agreeing with me on this point. however, what significance do you want to attach to the reasons for the judgments and to the fact that, as things stand, the opinions and views of the judges of the court of justice of the european communities will always remain obscure, especially in cases which have generated much discussion? would it not also be necessary to put the future position of the court of justice on the igc agenda, so that the relevant articles of the treaties can be amended?
- (fi) mr president, i am very pleased with the council's reply, but before we close this part of the sitting, i would like to ask the bureau to tell us when it intends to decide on the timing of the debate on the von wogau report on competition policy and state aid policy. in fact, this debate should have been held this morning but it was postponed for a few hours today. we are now told that it may even be postponed until january. since i want to express my opinion in this debate, i would like to know what time i am likely to leave here.
the rapporteur. - (fi) madam president, this debate on the budget has shown, on the whole, that the european parliament and the council are capable of working constructively and of observing sound budgetary discipline. in particular, the last few days and hours have shown that we have a sense of responsibility when dealing with european affairs. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr wynn, and the lead rapporteur, mr bourlanges, for their constructive and patient cooperation in achieving the common objective. i would also like to thank the president of the council, mrs siimes, and the commissioner responsible, mrs schreyer, for their excellent cooperation with parliament. in conclusion, i would also like to thank all the staff of the committee on budgets who really had to work overtime, and the whole of parliament and in particular my group, for their firm and unwavering support at all stages of this matter.
in writing. - (fi) i think it is appropriate that the financial needs arising from the kosovo crisis be met next year through existing flexible measures. the revision of the financial perspective for heading 4 has not yet been carried out. we do not need a permanent revision of the ceiling for heading 4 except by making full use of the principle of flexibility. on the other hand, the position which parliament has confirmed today will cause portugal great difficulties, because the final decisions on the financing of external actions have been postponed until next spring.
- (sv) mr president, as many speakers before me have said, sierra leone is the worst example of what happens when a country uses child soldiers. a few weeks ago the finnish press reported on the story of an eighteen-year-old girl who had been forcibly recruited, amputated and raped. she said she had no future, no hope. i think his story is the ultimate horror. her case forces us to think about what we can do. it should also be noted that one third of the child soldiers recruited in sierra leone are, like her, girls. we must demand - and i hope the commission will do the same - that the president of this country comply with the agreements which were concluded some time ago with unicef. this means that unicef must be able to work in the country with children who have suffered psychological trauma. i think that unicef is the organisation with the most experience in this kind of work. i think we should continue to help him in particular, and in every way possible. because it is primarily psychological trauma that these children suffer, and it is this trauma that drives many of them to return to armed groups. this is one of the most serious threats to the future.
- (sv) mr president, the fact is that the eu is awaiting ratification by a large number of member states in a number of different contexts. i am particularly pleased that commissioner verheugen is here today and that he can use his influence to ensure that the candidate countries, as well as other countries that wish to work together, join us and that we obtain a significant number of ratifications. it is a shame that only six of the member states have signed the statute. if we want to get more member states, candidate countries and countries with which we have cooperation agreements to join us, we will have to compromise, but we have to start somewhere. i also hope that we can work towards securing the resources needed to make this statute work. i think this is an important priority for us going forward, and that members will be able to continue to engage in working parties as they have done in previous situations.
- (fi) mr president, i should first like to thank mrs redondo jiménez for her report and in particular for her good cooperation this autumn as vice-chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development. a functional statistical system is an important basis for sound decision-making. statistics must be complete, reliable and produced in a uniform manner. the report rightly emphasizes the legal basis for statistics, in particular amendment no 2 and amendment no 3, which specify the amount of the community advance. the main political message is contained in amendments nos 4 and 5, which call for the subsidy payments to be tabulated, inter alia, on the basis of area. this is of primary importance when considering the social aspect of agricultural aids. it would be difficult to promote a subsidy system which channels the bulk of aid to the large landowners in the best agricultural regions. at the moment we do not have exact data on this, we have to rely on rumours that 20% of farmers would receive 80% of the aid. amendment no 1 emphasizes the importance of statistics for the enlargement to the east. this is a key point of view which still requires a lot of work on the part of both the eu and the candidate countries. the report does not provide a solution to the problem of statistics in the applicant countries. there are still quite a number of problems, starting with the functionality of the cadastre. it would be political suicide to start enlargement to the east without having data on its budgetary implications. we will not make much progress if our current knowledge of spending is wrong or incomprehensible. for european farmers, the most important statistics are the figures for reference crops. at the time of finland's accession, we had to be satisfied with a level of harvest that did not correspond to that of normal years. these figures should be based on the actual level of harvest as soon as possible or the basis for these figures and the concept of aid per hectare to compensate for the fall in prices should be completely revised. we cannot commit ourselves to supporting for decades the producers in the european agricultural regions with the best harvest levels because of past price falls. it would be better to harmonise the aids per hectare as much as possible for the whole of the eu. mr president, the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party will vote in favour of this report.
