mr president, for the first time in ten years we are actually going to vote for the election of the president of the european parliament without any of those prior agreements between the christian-democratic and socialist groups which in my view symbolized a kind of condominium closing the democratic debate. today, more by chance than by the political will of the two main groups, we have a right-left confrontation. the group of the european united left...
i agree with you, mr president, but as you know, everything is political here. but i'm taking your point into consideration. in the first round, when the election of the president of parliament had initially no chance of being held, we decided to put forward the candidacy of mrs laura gonzalez, to assert our specific place within the left. the latest developments, and in particular the conclusion of a legislative contract between the two main right-wing groups, mean that it can no longer be ruled out that everything will be decided in the first round of voting. we want to help a united and confident right to oppose a united and aggressive left.
- my colleagues, you have just given me one of the most wonderful surprises of my life. i just want to say that i'm really, really moved. i'm not making any speeches, it's for tomorrow. just a few words to say thank you very much from the bottom of my heart for the trust you have just shown me. it's a confidence that is a little overwhelming, but you should know that i will do everything i can to be worthy of it and to make us work together wonderfully, as we have done so far. if you will allow me, i will say two words in particular - i think my male colleagues will allow me - to my female colleagues who have always given me wonderful support, as have the others, but i would also like to say that this election is also a bit yours, because it is true that since simone veil in 1979 there has not been a female president of the european parliament for 20 years, and i am very proud of that. (applause from the left) and then you will also allow me to dedicate this election to those of our colleagues who were still our colleagues yesterday. i know that many of them are still here, but many others have told us that they would have liked very much to have taken part in this election, which was very joyous, and i would like to say a very big thank you to them. and then, to mário soares, i would like to say that we had a very democratic, very cordial competition, and the result of this election - well, it is political life - does not in any way diminish the very, very high esteem i have for him and for our assembly. (applause) mário soares asked me to speak and i gave him the floor immediately.
- thank you, mr soares.
thank you very much, mr. pat cox. i call mr wurtz.
madam president, i too would like to congratulate you on behalf of the group of the european united left - nordic green left. you are now the president of all of us. i would like to add what i had the opportunity to say to you when you visited our group a few days ago, namely that everyone knows that we are not on the same political side. i have not concealed from you, including the implications this would have today, that political differences do not exclude personal esteem. we therefore hope that you will show the same loyalty and fairness as the president, which made you many friends in this house as first vice-president of our previous assembly. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you, mr bonde. i am deeply moved by what i have just heard. tomorrow, in my opening speech, i shall address many of the concerns and reflections that have been expressed by both sides. now, if you will excuse us, we shall adjourn this sitting, but before we do so i would like to thank mr napolitano, who chaired our debate this morning with a very great talent, a very great coolness, when we came close to a translation error. eventually, it all worked out. he has chaired this opening session in a remarkable way and i would like to thank him on behalf of all of you. election of vice-presidents: see minutes. the establishment of political groups: see minutes. (applause) (the sitting was suspended at 12.50 p.m. and resumed at 3.10 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, the next item on the agenda is the election of the vice-presidents of the european parliament. you're looking at the list of candidates. i'll give you a reading. the ballots are being distributed because we have decided, once again, that since there were 14 candidates for 14 posts, we will vote by hand. we'll use the benefits of electronics a little later. the following candidates were nominated: mr joan colom i naval, mr ingo friedrich, mr renzo imbeni, mrs marie-noëlle lienemann, mr luis marinho, mr david martin, mr gérard onesta, mr josé pacheco pereira, mr guido podestà, mr james provan, mr alonso josé puerta, mr gerhard schmid, mr alejo vidal-quadras roca and mr jan wiebenga. the candidates were selected by the commission and the council. the candidates have informed me that they accept their respective applications. as i said earlier, since the number of candidates does not exceed the number of seats to be filled, i shall propose that you first of all elect these 14 candidates for the vice-presidency by acclamation. then we will hold a vote to determine the presidency among the various vice-presidents you have thus elected. (applause) i would like to thank the 14 vice-presidents are elected by acclamation. i solemnly declare the polls open. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.) (the sitting was suspended at 3.40 p.m. and resumed at 6.05 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as we agreed, to announce the result of the vote on the order of succession of the vice-presidents. the number of voters: 594. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. david martin: 275 votesrenzo imbeni: 252 votesgerhard schmid: 249 votesthen we have james provan and ingo friedrich with 246 votes each, which means that, in order, the oldest candidate takes the chair. i think that's james provan. he's not here. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in accordance with rule 15 (2) of the rules of procedure, the order of precedence of the vice-presidents is determined by the number of votes obtained and the composition of the new bureau will be notified to the presidents of the institutions of the european communities. (applause) i would like to thank
as regards the election of quaestors, which will take place tomorrow morning, i propose that we set the deadline for the submission of applications at 8 p.m. tonight. these applications must be lodged in the same place as those of the vice-presidents, that is to say in the small room next to the chamber.
- mr swoboda, i think we can even be more generous and propose, if you agree, tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. as you will even have the night to bring you advice.
ladies and gentlemen, the agenda is now closed. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 6.10 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, once again, i would like to thank you very much for the confidence you showed in me yesterday when you elected me president of the european parliament. to succeed the various presidents who have marked the history of our parliament since it was elected by direct universal suffrage, to succeed you, dear josé maria gil-robles, who has so well guided our parliament along the path of democratic progress, (applause) invites me to modesty rather than pride. for my pride now fails me in conscience to the burden we shall bear together, and which i know, as far as i am concerned, to be good, as well as bad. i would like to say to those of our colleagues who voted otherwise, and i am not saying this on the spur of the moment, that once elected the president must be the president of all. primus inter pares . i 'm not sure . it is only a servant of the proper functioning of parliamentary democracy. to remain true to my convictions and to the group which nominated me for the presidency, but to assume the office with integrity and impartiality, respecting our political or national differences, is how i conceive my role and its ethics. as the vice-president to whom the assembly has entrusted me in recent years, i have always tried to do so. i will continue to act in the same spirit. the conditions under which this election took place have marked a step forward in the democratic functioning of the european parliament. it allowed all members, regardless of the size of their group, to participate in an open way. it has taken account of the report of the political forces which the citizens themselves, who elected us, drew up on 13 june. it has allowed each individual to express his or her own choice of conscience. as i said yesterday, i am grateful to the house for having taken into account another aspect of this democratic balance. in the previous parliamentary term, 23% of meps were women. today, it has about 30%. (applause) i would like to thank since simone veil, who was elected in 1979 as the first president of the new parliament elected by direct universal suffrage, the efforts made over these 20 years to achieve fairer representation have now been brought to fruition in the elections which have just taken place. i'm certainly happy and proud of it. but beyond myself, i would like to say to our female colleagues in parliament that this promotion is also theirs. our constituent part-session coincides with the actual taking over of the new building which, after and with luxembourg and brussels, will now be the shared home of our parliamentary work and which is so appropriately named after a great european, louise weiss. the official inauguration will take place a little later, but this coincidence is symbolic of the fact that our parliament is rooted in facts and in minds. architecture has always magnified a human project and remains, through the passage of time, the lasting and privileged memory of civilizations. it has a strong meaning here today. by becoming independent of the council of europe, to which we are, of course, grateful for the long hospitality it has shown us, an era is ending and another is beginning. the gordian knot which bound the european parliament to the days when it was only an advisory assembly has now been severed significantly. unfortunately, colleagues, this building is not free from the sins of youth, which call for our indulgence and that of the media. in a sense, we wipe the plaster off. but i can assure you that at the end of this week we will make a very close inventory of all the malfunctions we have observed and we will do everything possible to remedy them as effectively as possible for the next session. i am aware of the enormous task that lies ahead of us during the two and a half years of this presidency. our first common duty, as i feel it today, will be to demand the full and effective recognition of the new responsibilities which the treaty of amsterdam has now given to the european parliament and which must now be translated into action without delay or reticence on the part of the other institutions. the interinstitutional cooperation between the council, the commission and parliament is essential and we want it to be harmonious, but there is still a need to balance better the two democratic legitimacies on which the adoption of community legislation is based, that of the states, which express themselves through the council, and that of the assembly, which proceeds from the direct universal suffrage of all the citizens of the union. (applause) i would like to thank a new era is opening up on the threshold of this parliamentary term, the european parliament is now a parliament in its own right. since the maastricht treaty, our prerogatives and influence have been steadily increasing. these are now reinforced by the treaty of amsterdam. this is the result of the efforts which our assembly has made at every stage of this conquest for a more democratic functioning of the union. this was the case after the ratification of the single european act in 1986 in order to maximise the achievements, albeit modest, of the cooperation procedure. the same was true after the ratification of the maastricht treaty in 1992, to accompany with meticulous care the implementation of the codecision procedure, which was far more far-reaching. all of us, and there are many of us, who have been involved in the various delegations to the conciliation committee, which brought parliament and the council face to face, in the presence and with the help of the commission, have been able to see how much this new procedure has increased the influence of our assembly during the last parliamentary term. in this way, almost all the disputes submitted to it have been resolved in a way that reflects parliament's main concerns. this positive result is due in large part to the strength of cohesion which i have always found in the successive parliament delegations to the conciliation committee, which i had the honour of co-chair ing, together with our friend renzo imbeni and mr verde. the faithfulness to the vote of the assembly, the internal solution to possible differences of opinion, the sense of reasonable compromise and responsibility, the perfect control of the files on the part of the rapporteurs and committee chairmen, have been decisive and have forced the council to comply. i would like to pay tribute to all the colleagues who have contributed to this. optimizing the powers we had conquered, but at the same time moving towards new democratic conquests, has been our constant objective. in this connection, i should like to pay a sincere and warm tribute to my four last predecessors, enrique barón crespo, egon klepsch, klaus hänsch and josé maria gil-robles, regardless of their political affiliation, for the considerable work of persuasion which they have been able to carry out with the heads of state and government, particularly in the european councils in which they participated. it is largely thanks to their diplomacy and moral authority that the maastricht and amsterdam treaties included the new powers of parliament that we can now put into practice. from now on, no legislative act on almost all areas of community competence can be adopted without the formal agreement of parliament. i would like to say to the council that i am convinced that our assembly is in the mood to do everything possible to ensure that agreement between the council and parliament can be reached, whenever possible, at the first reading. but i must also tell you the truth: the council will have to count on parliament if the concerns of the citizens that we represent are not given their rightful place in the community legislation that will be proposed to us. (applause) as regards the commission, parliament now appoints, first, the president proposed by the heads of state or government and, secondly, the entire college of commissioners, while retaining its power of censure. i am aware that this procedure is a very sensitive watchmaking mechanism. the last months of the outgoing commission's mandate were marked by the serious crisis that everyone remembers. the culmination of this was in december 1998, when parliament dared for the first time to refuse to give the commission discharge. then a chain of events led to her resignation. in the coming weeks, our parliament will hold the hearing and then the investiture of the new college of commissioners. this will be the first act of accountability of our new legislature. in that regard, i must tell you my feeling. it would be inconceivable for us to proceed with the investiture of the commission without first having knowledge of the second report of the wise men. (applause) i will inform the right person, the chairman of this committee, that the european parliament must have this document before we proceed with the hearings of the commissioners-designate. (applause) i would like to say to mr prodi that we do not want a weakened commission. we want a strong, creative commission, which can tackle the major challenges we have to face together. we want the resources made available to him to correspond to the tasks entrusted to him. but in addition to its competence, we expect it to be transparent, based on a revised code of conduct, to respect the political and democratic balances desired by the electorate, to ensure that the procedures for assigning tasks to external bodies prevent the risk of conflicts of particular interests, and to be willing to work in close synergy with our parliament. we are therefore already pleased that the commissioner responsible for relations with parliament is one of the vice-presidents of the commission. despite some substantial progress, we all know that the treaty of amsterdam has not achieved all the objectives it was originally intended to achieve, mainly in terms of institutional reform, which is a prerequisite for enlargement. it is therefore up to our assembly to do its utmost to promote the institutional balance of the union in several directions. the scope of codecision should be extended so that it becomes the community procedure of common law applicable to all legislative acts of the union. the european parliament must be involved in the common foreign and security policy in relation to its operational pillar, the weu. its integration into the institutional system of the union must become effective, as the treaty of amsterdam has confirmed the principle. the european parliament must be closely involved in the preparatory work for the intergovernmental conference on the reform of the european institutions. the citizens who have appointed us would not understand that the european parliament is a minor partner in such an ambitious and necessary reform as the one that has to be undertaken. on the one hand, it must be involved very early on in order to be able to make an active contribution as soon as these preparatory works are started. secondly, we will ask the council to take account of the wish of the assembly, which, in approving the reports presented by mr méndez de vigo and mr tsatsos, requested by a very large majority that the method adopted be the community method, namely a proposal from the commission submitted to both council and parliament. finally, the council must know that parliament would not be satisfied with a minimum reform, if that were to be the case. (applause) i would like to thank the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament will also have to be closely involved in the negotiations which will prepare the enlargement of the union, which will remain the priority for the coming years. and its weight must be increased in the major budgetary choices and the setting of their priorities in accordance with the guidelines of agenda 2000. finally, i am convinced that our assembly must make the voice of the european citizens it represents more widely heard on the world stage of international trade. what has just happened in the world trade organisation with regard to hormone-treated cattle is unacceptable. (applause) we all remember the tragedy of tainted blood or the human risk of mad cow disease. the problem is not to oppose biotechnological progress but to make the requirements of public health prevail. we'll see to it. (applause) i would like to thank the experience i have of this house leads me to believe that we will have to make progress in a number of areas during this presidency, and i will only mention briefly those which seem to me to be priorities, without prejudging today the outcome of the open debates which i shall be happy to encourage on these subjects. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, we must first of all learn the political lesson from the low voter turnout in the last european elections and order our internal reforms in the search for greater closeness to the citizens who elected us. we will also be keen to make progress in this context on the draft uniform procedure for electing members of the european parliament. contrary to the image given here and there, the european parliament works a lot, but it is not sure that we are working as rationally as we could and should. modernization of our working methods and procedures is becoming a necessity if we are to be both more efficient and have sufficient time to be available to our fellow voters on the ground. (applause) i would like to thank in the interests of the treaties, which are our supreme common law, all questions must be able to be discussed without taboo, because our efficiency is at stake, in brussels as well as here in strasbourg. many avenues of thought have already been opened, such as the arrangements for reducing voting time in the assembly, to the benefit of a wider expression of members in the important debates, (applause) the release of time slots to facilitate close relations with our electors - weekdays or on fridays - (applause) the clarification of the respective role of the bureau and the conference of presidents in relation to the prerogatives of the plenary assembly. in this respect i propose to improve the communication of agendas and the recording of decisions to members by electronic mail. i do not prejudge decisions which the house will take democratically after having wisely weighed their consequences or the risk of adverse effects. i simply want to say to you this morning that i will do everything in my power to encourage an open debate and to give priority to the search for the greatest efficiency in our parliamentary work. secondly, we must complete the work that has been started on the common statute for members and, in addition, clarify the conditions of employment and work of our parliamentary assistants. this is based on transparency, fairness and the dignity of the parliamentary function. today, this reform of clarification is necessary in a political environment which has changed a great deal since the treaty of amsterdam finally accepted the principle. our assembly has already made a great deal of progress on the report by our colleague, mr willi rothley. this work must be completed by seeking the widest possible consensus in this house and i, as president, will be keen to achieve this. finally, we must urgently refine our communication strategy, in particular by making a greater effort to decentralize. our information must go beyond the circles of insiders, to whom it is unfortunately often still reserved, in order to be as close as possible to the citizen. in politics, it is not just a matter of doing, but of communicating, and the shortcomings in this area are still considerable. europe is boring, wrote a major daily newspaper these days. this is the challenge we must face, and i will do my best in the role i have been given to do so, with the help of this house and the journalists, who i hope will be increasingly interested in our work, if we can improve its political visibility. this information gap among our fellow citizens cannot be filled by improvisation. it calls for a fundamental political reflection. there is something paradoxical about the current situation. all the surveys show that support for the european project is gaining ground in the minds of many, and at the same time the ever-increasing number of abstentions from the european elections is a reminder that for many europe remains an abstract construct, far from their daily concerns. but democratic life cannot be reduced to a succession of electoral consultations and parliamentary procedures, unless it is, in the famous quip of winston churchill, the worst of regimes, with the exception of all the others. we shall have to take the political measure of the next fact. for too long, the construction of europe has appeared, even wrongly, to public opinion as a machine of cold bureaucratic efficiency. a machine to make the standard where there was diversity, compromise where there was divergence, uniformity where there was difference. the commission has historically been credited with creating the conditions for a large market, but you cannot spread an ideal by means of directives and regulations. for europe to be accepted as something other than a constraint, it must be the bearer of a project that goes beyond the mere construction of an economic and monetary area, even enriched by its social and environmental dimension. (applause) i would like to thank today, there is an urgent need to give the union a new meaning. i hope that, by the appropriate means which we shall have to discuss, our assembly will set itself the objective of reversing the dangerous trend of abstention in the forthcoming european elections, so that the european parliament retains to a high degree, in the very minds of our fellow citizens, the democratic legitimacy it receives from the ballot box. the international influence of our parliament is high beyond the countries of the union. it is particularly so in all the countries which are candidates for accession, as well as in those which have signed cooperation agreements with the union. this positive image is not based solely on the support expected from the european parliament for financial aid to development projects or for the conclusion of economic agreements with the union. what prevails is the order of the mind. the european parliament is identified with the success of civilized democracy on a large, multinational scale in the world. in all the international agreements for which parliament's assent is required, our assembly has never ceased, even under pressure from state interests, to make its agreement conditional on the respect by the partner countries of a more authentic democracy, respectful of freedom and human rights. for all the peoples of the world who are oppressed by dictatorship, civil war or underdevelopment, europe is a great hope for peace, freedom and progress. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that our assembly will multiply the strong signs which will mobilize the collective consciousness on the universality of the fundamental values of the human community. in this respect, the most pressing and immediate tragedy is, of course, the one which has torn kosovo apart. today, the weapons have fallen silent, the horror has ceased, but peace must be rebuilt. everyone has a vague feeling that the future of a democratic model, protecting all minorities, is at stake. a form of humanitarian sanctuarisation of the european continent has also emerged. it was not acceptable, and it was not accepted, to see human rights violated again in such a barbaric way in the heart of europe. i believe that the joint action of the 15 member states of the union will remain a founding act of political europe, a response to the wishes of the citizens who expect more from us than a single market, a project of humanity. a new europe has begun in pristina, and this europe is being born on the threshold of a new century. now that the arms are contained, the country is rebuilt and perhaps one day reconciliation will come, i would like, in a very significant act, that my first initiative as president towards the outside world is to go, on your behalf, as soon as possible, to kosovo. (applause from the centre) i know that many distinguished people have been there, but this visit will have a special significance in the time of peace: it will be a message of our determination to the two communities, albanian and serb, to the high representative of the united nations, to the political and religious authorities, and to the international peacekeeping force. the european parliament will play its full part in the effort to rebuild kosovo and stabilise the balkan region. it will do so, in particular, by exercising its budgetary powers, but of course it will do much more than that. of course, ladies and gentlemen, i am counting on all of you to play an active part in making these ambitious objectives a reality. the task ahead of us is difficult, so i do not wish you a good holiday, but i wish you, i wish us all, good courage, and i thank you. (applause from the left)
the council. mr president, i would like to congratulate you on your election to this new and demanding role. as you yourself said in your brilliant speech, we all have great challenges ahead of us. you said you appreciated the interinstitutional cooperation. i can assure you, mr president, and i will say it again tonight in this very room when i officially present the programme for the finnish presidency, that our aim is also to further strengthen cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council. i have come here today, mr president, to honour the mandate given to this house by europeans and to offer sincere cooperation in building a better future for our citizens, but at the same time remembering that we are part of a common world. mr president, i thank you for the opportunity to be here today. (applause) i would like to thank the
i thank the president-in-office of the council.
member of the commission. – (fr) madam president, i will be very brief. i must congratulate you, on behalf of the outgoing commission, on your election to the presidency of the parliament. what can i say about your personal qualities and your already long record in the quest for european integration? we know, because we know you very well, that you are a demanding character, but we also know that you have a profound sense of balance which will no doubt help us in the future to form a new approach with regard to the relationship between the european parliament and the commission. as you have indicated, i believe – and why hide it? – that this is one of the fundamental issues to be resolved. we are convinced that, under your authority, the next commission will be capable of re-establishing that trust which has always been a fundamental asset as far as european integration is concerned. may i reiterate, mrs fontaine, my warm congratulations on behalf of the commission. thank you very much. (applause)
- thank you very much, commissioner marin.
the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed. are there any observations?
(fr) madam president, with regard to the minutes of yesterday"s sitting, i would like to provide all the members with some information relating to the introductory intervention of our irish colleague yesterday morning. i would like to make it known to all the members that the issues concerning the means of access, for people with reduced mobility, from the public car parks to all the buildings, is entirely effective. i tested it myself this morning, using all the paths provided and signposted by means of all the symbols normally used for this sort of information. i want to point this out so that we can stop the circulation of inaccurate facts. everything is in order so that people with reduced mobility may have effective access to the buildings. i believe that what still needs to be resolved is the problem of the chamber itself.
- thank you for this very optimistic intervention. i have to say, i don't totally agree. i believe that there is still a great deal to be done to improve the proper functioning of this parliament. everyone is aware of this and we will do everything we can to achieve it.
- mr staes, it was not exactly a procedural motion, but i listened to you with interest, and as i said earlier, i shall very quickly make the necessary contacts for this purpose.
thank you, mr dell'alba. i'll see you in a bit. there is no need to correct the minutes.
i thank you, mrs kinnock, for this contribution, which i shall take very seriously. membership of the olaf supervisory committee order of business time for speaking transmission by the council of texts of agreements written declarations (rule 51) petitions: see minutes.
(fr) madam president, i would like to ask mr poettering a simple question. (de) madam president, a brief question for mr poettering. mr poettering, what is the difference between a christian democrat and a european democrat? (laughter)
we shall be happy to pass your question on to the commission.
- the report of the european council and the commission statement on the european council meeting of 3 and 4 june in cologne, - the council statement on the six-month period of the german presidency.
(fr) mr president, on behalf of the union for a europe of nations group, i would first like to briefly mention the lessons which can be drawn from the recent european elections. it seems to me that the massive and increasing abstention recorded in all of the european countries indicates the emergence and confirmation of a virtual europe which is distancing itself more and more from european citizens. another apparent sign of the increasing disinterest of the europeans in european construction is the lack of interest in the euro, barely six months after its launch. it seems to me – and this is the second lesson to be drawn from the european elections – that an increasing euroscepticism amongst voters in numerous countries has been demonstrated, particularly in the united kingdom and france, and i believe that by voting for the opposition parties in the large european countries, it is the europe in which their governments participate that the citizens wanted to reject. i see an enormous paradox in yesterday"s election, on the part of the right in this hemicycle, of a candidate who, however admirable, is a known federalist, when this does not apparently reflect the view expressed by the voters – particularly those of the right – in the countries of europe. i do not believe that the legitimacy mentioned by the german foreign minister can be achieved by reproducing, on a european scale, the party systems to be found in the european countries. this legitimacy can only stem from a europe which has been ‘reforged’ on the basis of national democracies rather than trying to create a virtual europe which is ever more distant from the concerns of its citizens. to return to the cologne summit and the consequences of the german presidency, i will make three points. first of all, the employment pact which has been europe"s old chestnut for a very long time. i believe that a certain german chancellor whom we have still not forgotten, helmut kohl, used a phrase which seems to me to sum the situation up exactly. he said, ‘employment – in other words, unemployment – is and shall remain a national prerogative’. this is precisely the definition of this europe which is seen to make plans but leaves the problems to the member nations. the second point concerning the german presidency and the six months that have just passed is the reform of the common agricultural policy. it is clear that this reform has been and still is a precondition to the negotiations to be held with the world trade organisation, which, as we well know, is an instrument of the dominant economy, that is, the american economy. the recent developments that we have seen with regard to the wto, the way in which the new negotiations will be carried out and, particularly, the appointment of the director general preferred by the americans for the first round of the wto, are very bad omens with regard to european interests. it seems to me that this europe, which was born of the idea of the common market, has become a single market and will end up as nothing more than a part of a great global market. that will effectively mean the defeat of the treaty of rome project. lastly, the kosovo affair has also demonstrated the impotence of the european union and its total diplomatic and military dependence on the dominant military power of nato. furthermore, the appointment of the secretary general of nato as a representative of the european common foreign and security policy, appears to complete the picture, and brings to mind that phrase of a french diplomat who said that it is illusory to try to develop a european defence policy while building the european central bank in fort knox. i believe that the kosovo affair and its favourable outcome have eclipsed the six months which have just passed. it is very important – for our group at least – that, in the course of the coming institutional reforms, a far greater importance is afforded to national democracies and national parliaments, instead of allowing europe to sink deeper and distance itself even further from the citizens by creating the kind of democracy that i have described as virtual. (applause)
- the next item is the statement by mr prodi, president-elect of the european commission, to whom i shall give the floor with great pleasure.
(fr) mr president prodi, we have listened to you attentively and we are concerned. on 13 april last, you stated your desire for reform aimed at greater efficiency, absolute transparency and full responsibility. since then you have frequently restated your laudable intentions in this respect. but what exactly does this reform consist of? where is this promised revolution when you are bringing back those same commissioners who were forced to resign following the damning report of the committee of independent experts? the ultimate mystery is why you entrust administrative reform, which must be based on the said report, to one of the four returning commissioners. not all of the new commissioners seem to us to have the necessary credibility to satisfy this desire for reform. our group will therefore be particularly attentive during the coming hearings, and as far as we are concerned there is no question of parliament being content to be a mere registration chamber. this disastrous management of the commission must come to an end. it must never happen again, otherwise it will be the citizens who, justifiably, turn their backs on europe. the high level of abstention in the recent european elections is a genuine cry of alarm. it is a sign of a profound crisis of confidence. ladies and gentlemen, we are open to dialogue and debate, but can only pass judgment on actions rather than fine speeches. firstly, we need to know what spirit the commissioners are going to be working in and what approach they intend to take with regard to working with all members of this parliament, regardless of whether they belong to a small group or large group. last january, jacques santer asked for the political trust of this parliament, under threat of a vote of no confidence, stating that we should stop looking to the past. today, you are asking almost the same thing. how much confidence can we show in you? at best, we can give you the benefit of the doubt. if your changes only consist of technical improvements, while preserving the same culture, they will not be acceptable to us. we expect commissioners to open dialogue with the elected representatives in the european parliament as early as possible before decisions are taken, but above all we expect them to respect the principles of transparency and subsidiarity as well as our democracies and traditions. in that way you will provide us with the means to work with you effectively and we will all gain from our differences. (applause )
(fr) mr president-elect of the commission, i would first like to reiterate the sense of esteem, respect and personal trust which some of us expressed when we voted for your investiture. we are still faithful to this fundamental choice and we would like to let you know that, in your difficult task, you will always find us to be speakers who are sometimes demanding but always anxious to help you and not to hinder you. i have found grounds for reassurance, if that be needed, in the fundamental approach which you have laid out, particularly – if you do not mind me saying so – with regard to institutional matters and i therefore have confidence in the action you intend to take and the approach you have indicated for the commission. i would like to take advantage of this brief intervention to attempt to clear up a kind of misunderstanding. i do not want you to think, neither you nor your potential, possible or future colleagues – who can say – that concerns about you are dictated by national or partisan considerations. let us not speak of national considerations. as for partisan considerations, it is clear that your commission must represent the great political forces of the european union, and on a parliamentary level we must continue to work with all the large groups – and that does not mean just two groups – according to a policy of co-operation necessary for the success of our legislative work. what we are defending here – and what concerns us – are the rights of parliament in relation to the european council. we hope that the commission that you embody is fully representative of that difficult balance between the european council and the european parliament. in conclusion, and i will finish here mr president, we do not want to be, as if in a new version of plato"s myth, the shadows in a cave where the true life is the european council.
president-elect of the commission . – (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate, which has been in-depth, clear and in many cases, extremely comprehensive and which has mostly demonstrated open confidence in our future work. i say open confidence because all those who spoke, even those who criticised the composition of the commission, acknowledged the need to work closely together in a major, intense undertaking and recognised the fact that the future of the european union lies in collaboration between the parliament and the commission. it is we and our collaboration which will form the basis for the way out of the current crisis, a crisis so serious as to reduce the number of voters who turned out at the last elections to among the lowest proportions in european political history. i believe that, at the end of this mandate, one gauge of our success will be the numbers who vote in the next elections. that will show whether we have managed to restore the faith of the citizens of europe in the institutions for which we are responsible. this means transparency, a whole cleaning up operation which will not be easy to conduct. it is easy to promise – and i have committed myself fully on this matter – but i also know very well that it is not an easy promise to keep. a little while ago the electoral symbol for my candidacy – a little donkey – was invoked with charming irony, and i was invited to be stubborn, an invitation which was unnecessary as i am pig-headed by nature. however, i would like remind you that i was prompted to choose the donkey while reading a passage from leonardo da vinci, in which, while he is describing the donkey – although i cannot vouch for the truth of the statement for lack of proof – he said that the donkey is a strange animal because rather than drink dirty water it will die of thirst. (applause) it is important for us to take the donkey as the symbol of our politics because, in this five-year term, we must try to do likewise. i am perfectly aware that it is easy to make these resolutions but that it is not so easy to keep them, but the method we used to build the commission, mr poettering, was a very open one. there was no night of long knives, no investiture struggle and no border fighting. it was not an easy task to bring together fifteen countries, north and south, and diverse political situations. as for the result, when i say ‘balanced’ we know full well that there is discontent in some countries, but that is politics: balanced means that the major forces present in the european parliament are very well represented in terms of personality and portfolio size in the commission. you can analyse the composition of the commission in as much detail as you like. i repeat, within the bounds of the treaty of amsterdam, i have taken full advantage of all the power conferred on me, and i believe that one improvement at the end of this mandate may be more advanced ways of forming the commission. nevertheless, please consider the progress made with regard to other areas. please consider the fact that we have arrived here with a commission which will work hard – well or not so well, we will see – whatever the case, which is able to agree on common programmes and the members of which are ready to face their responsibilities, individually and collectively. i reiterate this point because there has been a great deal of discussion regarding the manner in which we will conduct the audiences, hearings and inquiries. i attach very great importance to this aspect of things, as i attach very great importance to the wise men"s report, but i also believe that these inquiries must be made into the history of the commissioners and their programmes, and must be carried out in great depth and with political serenity as, in my opinion, they cannot be the tool to regulate problems which occurred in the past. having said this, i believe that they must be explored in more depth and that there must be hearings which go right to the bottom of the commission"s problems, because, and i am right to do so, i have taken on board the warning that prevention is preferable to the commission being subsequently thrown into crisis. earlier today, in my address, i said that i have asked all the commissioners to give me their word of honour that they would resign should any new event take place or should there be any hidden fact. i believe that this tool will not be used lightly, but with the sense, however, that the problem in question involves not only individual responsibility but also the efficiency and responsibility of the entire commission team which must present itself to you as capable of governing for the next five years. clearly, we have to present ourselves as individuals, but we must also present ourselves as an organically composed group, not as distinct individuals which are separate from each other. this has been the endeavour of the past few months and this is the type of commission which has been introduced to you. please assess it in this way. therefore, i consider that the vote on 15 september will be enormously important. i believe that you have the right to reject the entire commission and consider it inadequate for the great task of leading europe in the next five year period and making its contribution to the great task before us. well then, i invite you to perform this task according to the vision of european common interest, and not in a context, although absolutely legitimate in politics, of individual interest. i will conclude by returning to a couple of points which have been recalled and raised today. firstly, the wise men"s report. i believe that it is very important for us to have read the first of these carefully and to have measured against it many of the thoughts which i have expounded to the parliament on the three occasions in which i have come here. this report does exert an influence, but we have to understand that the political responsibility of the future is our own. the wise men"s report is a wonderful instrument, and we must read it and reflect upon it, but the decision is ours alone to make and its consequences ours to bear, and it is in this sense that the dialogue between parliament and the commission takes on a completely different dimension. secondly, several speakers have invoked the question of international trade, which i did not bring up because it will be discussed in september. i can assure you that it will be very important to maintain a balance between the need for free trade, which is one of the foundation stones of europe, and the protection of important rights, including the fundamental health rights. this is the reason why i have highlighted the example of health with regard to food and medicine as one of the benchmarks for the our future commission. there you are. this is the path we have to follow. as mr barón crespo said, quoting manzoni: ‘adelante ’ but ‘con juicio ’, ‘go on, carefully’. the quotation is not complete, however, because there is another sentence. in fact, manzoni says: ‘adelante, pedro, si puedes ’, that is ‘go on, pedro, if you can’, and this power to move forward is in your hands. (applause)
president-elect of the commission. - (it) this is the aim of the proposed commission and this is the reason why we have made health a priority, to be consistent. in this case, to protect humans rather than donkeys. (applause)
- the agenda includes the statement by the president-in-office of the council on the finnish presidency's programme of action, the economic and social reconstruction of kosovo, the draft stability pact for south-east europe and the death sentence for mr öcalan.
(fr) mr president, i have lost count of the number of times we have discussed the problem of balkan reconstruction in this parliament. we have spoken about bosnia and have endlessly discussed the same problems of decentralisation. i believe that the balkans will not be reconstructed unless the european spirit of co-responsibility becomes the dominant spirit of politics there. i think that the european union can offer the spirit of european construction to the reconstruction of the balkans and that will be the determining factor. nothing we say about thessaloniki, pristina or sarajevo will have the same meaning, because today – and this is where the danger lies – in the method of reconstruction with the un on one side, the european union on another and the osce on yet another, we are creating institutions of dependence where the reconstruction of the balkans depends on our will but the self-determination of the balkan peoples in terms of managing themselves is not achieved. the danger is that we plan and construct on behalf of others, but do not create the conditions necessary for the peoples and countries of the balkans to take control of their own destiny. it is for this reason that here, in this parliament, we have already proposed, for example, a foundation for democracy which, starting with the bosnian problems, should be extended to the whole of the balkans. this foundation would finance all the initiatives and contribute to the reconstruction of democratic structures in the balkans, because, at the end of the day, the capacity for self-determination depends on the society"s capacity to organise itself democratically. this is where the great problem lies in those countries with authoritarian structures where democracy is not readily available. not until democracy is readily available will the reconstruction of the balkans be possible. (applause )
(fr) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the disastrous war in the balkans unleashed against a sovereign state without the approval of the united nations security council and with no prior declaration of war only appears to have ended. of course, the atlantic coalition, on the orders of american politicians, appears to have come out on top. but at what price? we are now faced with the enormous destruction which we have caused, mostly with no serious military objective. having paid for this destruction, the european tax-payer will now be asked to pay for reconstruction. bitter derision and, material waste have added to the human and political damage, and we are now in the front line of community confrontations, in a psychological situation which is aggravated by the destruction which we have brought about. we are at risk of being ensnared in these conflicts, unless the european countries do not stand by powerless in the face of the final phase of ethnic cleansing which has not touched the universal sense of conscience to any great extent: we risk the elimination of the remaining serb inhabitants, in that region, who have become a minority in their own country. respect for international law, for the sovereignty of states, for their territorial integrity, is not always without its problems, but the violation of that respect causes infinitely more problems. this is what the authorities of the union and the governments of the member states should understand. in that way we will perhaps be spared the still unforeseen dramas which may await us.
(fr) madam president-in-office of the council, as others have said previously, your presidency has come at an exceptional time, just when the crisis has erupted in kosovo and the european union has made its contribution to dealing with it, after an institutional crisis which we have still not dealt with, after the election of a new parliament in very unusual circumstances with voters taking less and less interest in an institution which has more and more powers and, finally, after the cologne european council meeting which launched important projects for the future. in order to face up to this, madam president, we require a community machine which is in good working order, and i can assure you that my group will do everything possible so that this machine may be put in order as soon as possible. you need it and we need it. how can we allow a situation in which the resigning commission has continued to operate since last march and is still intervening to try to undermine the implementation of a single price for books and to define the mandate for the next wto negotiation, the importance of which for the future is well known. this is not democratic and we will fight it. on the other hand, we will help you with the rapid establishment of a serious and trustworthy commission which is at the service of all europeans. apart from these considerations, our candidate for the presidency, mr romano prodi, has just displayed the constructive and creative spirit with which he views the contribution of the commission to the next intergovernmental conference. under your presidency, it will fall to the council to define the mandate of that igc. i believe that the presence by your side of a strong commission making its contribution to the development of that mandate is equally essential. we will certainly help you in this to ensure that everyone faces up to his or her responsibilities. however, apart from that igc, certain things will also depend on your presidency, and we all know that certain improvements to the functioning of the institutions do not necessarily depend on a reform of the treaties and that it concerns firstly – and perhaps principally – the council. it depends particularly on you. as for kosovo, i only have one thing to say. at the end of the day we europeans often regret our lack of a common foreign and security policy. we express our impatience in the face of these vacillations. however, the president of your country has given a marvellous demonstration of the contribution that europeans can make to peace on their continent and the development of a european solution to european problems. the fact that the united nations and russia have been able to be incorporated into the peace process in kosovo is due to united european action. with regard to the öçalan affair, mrs president, i would like to say a few words. the first is to congratulate you for having made tampere into a european council primarily dedicated to asylum policy. in fact i believe that the current öçalan affair in istanbul is also due to the fact that we were not at first able to implement an asylum policy worthy of its name. finally, in relation to the death penalty, please allow me to draw your attention and insist to you that your presidency intervenes with all its powers in istanbul as well as in tehran, since in tehran we know of thirteen judges who face the death penalty simply for having been accused of spying on behalf of israel. we are counting on you, madam president. (applause)
- (fr) madam minister, since 11 february, when our parliament reacted to the first news of the massacres in kosovo, it has ceaselessly denounced the atrocities committed in that province, caught up again in that hellish spiral of violence and fear which has caused so much suffering through the systematic violation of a human being"s most basic rights, one of the first of which is that of being able to stay in the place where one was born, and to retain the culture one has grown up with. the dynamic reaction of the union"s governments has been supported by the large majority of european citizens. public opinion can be congratulated for the fact that, for the first time in centuries, a war has been fought, not in the defence of national or private interests, but in order that what is right should triumph. if many of us feared seven years ago, that europe had been killed in sarajevo, our president is all the more right when he says this morning that a new europe should be born in pristina. however, the political aim, which caused us to resort to force, is still far from being achieved. peace needs to be rebuilt there. allied soldiers, with their russian partners, are on the ground to calm people"s fears and in time, to allow reconciliation to take place. they will only be effective if the whole of europe, and its parliamentary representatives at the highest level are up to the task of taking over from them. nicole fontaine committed herself this morning to contributing personally to this undertaking. i think that i am speaking on behalf of most of this assembly when i say that we approve of this initiative, and that many of us would like to join her in this. it has been said that parliament should provide itself with the means for this action through its budgetary powers. this is the message that several of us were expecting, because we were worried to discover the absence of any specific funds and feared that in these circumstances we might be tempted to rob peter to pay paui by sacrificing steps which were considered essential at the time the budget was set. i am therefore repeating the request that our colleague, mr poos, has just made. we know that the healthy management of the budget during the last parliamentary term has left us with sufficient means to deal with kosovo"s immediate needs. we fervently hope that this will be done.
(fr) mr president, the europe of nations group finds the attitude of commissioner bangemann, the commissioner for telecommunications in the previous commission – or in the present one, we are not too sure of his exact position – completely unacceptable. this same commissioner bangemann has just accepted an extremely well-paid job on the board of a company involved in his area of responsibility. we think that the council of ministers was right to inform the courts of justice, in accordance with article 213 of the treaty, which prohibits commissioners from accepting, even after leaving their posts, jobs which would place them in an awkward position, given their obligations to be honest and sensitive in these matters. one of these obligations which i feel should be mentioned in particular, as it is not mentioned often enough, is that of professional secrecy, which, in accordance with article 287 of the treaty, applies to commissioners indefinitely after leaving office. indeed, i do not see how mr bangemann could act as a director of telefónica without using, directly or indirectly, confidential information which he has acquired over the last few years. the union for a europe of nations group finds that the new code of conduct, touched on by mr prodi, is not up to the job. the one year minimum period which would relieve the commissioners of their obligations after leaving office, seems far too short. in addition to this, potential penalties should be made much more severe, and could even include the returning of salaries paid to them during their time in office at the commission. the stakes are high, dear colleagues. we must know whether or not we can take decisions at a european level which reflect the opinions of the citizens of europe and not those of economic or financial lobby-groups. there is more. the indifference of commissioner bangemann, who has not even had the decency to wait just a few months until the commission"s agony is over, shows the extent to which there is a feeling within this institution, of being above the law and above public opinion. this type of behaviour casts serious doubts, in retrospect, on many past decisions. this must be put right as a matter of urgency, particularly before the forthcoming international negotiations at the millennium round which will be fundamental to europe"s interests. in order to put things right though, mr president, we will need more than a new code of conduct. the control of whole european institutions will have to be given back to the people, and the first step in this direction is to give this control back to their national parliaments.
- (fr) mr president, i share the indignation of mr markov of the gue/ngl group towards mr bangemann"s attitude, but the real question is: what has mr bangemann been able to offer in order to command such a high salary? how much have his services brought to telefónica, a private company? how much control do european institutions have over the subsidies and advantages gained by private companies such as telefónica or others, and what control is there over the use that these companies make of them? yes, it is shocking that a european commissioner should be able to profit unduly from his position for his own benefit, but it is even more shocking that incredibly rich companies should be able to profit, quite legally, from subsidies from european institutions whilst to my knowledge, these same institutions are giving no help at all to the eighteen million unemployed workers throughout the union, nor to the several million other people who are forced to live on salaries which barely keep them alive. (applause)
(fr) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the dioxin crisis, bse and the pressure put on us by the americans to ensure that we accept hormone-treated meat are just a few examples of the very serious threats overhanging the safety of our citizens" food today. if these threats are not dealt with forcefully and adequately, irrationality will prevail at the expense of our farmers. the president-elect of the commission recognised yesterday the huge importance of this matter, but he has remained completely silent about how he proposes to deal with it. instead of these ideological tirades from days gone by, calling for a return of the old supranational connivance between parliament and the commission against the council, we would have preferred to hear from mr prodi, how exactly he intends, within his jurisdiction, to repair the damage done by previous commissions at the uruguay round. by accepting rules which act against our interests and measures such as the one covering sufficient scientific proof, which prevents us in practice from applying the precautionary principle, previous commissions did a great deal of damage to our companies and to our economies. they offered up our exports as hostages to those countries who want to impose their methods of production on us with all the effects that these may entail, on health, the environment and society. in years to come, our citizens" food safety will depend almost entirely on the way in which the new commission is able, at the forthcoming millennium round of negotiations, to defend the complete acceptability of a model for a separate european zone of high agricultural quality. member states must give or renew a clear and firm mandate to the commission in order to make it the stimulus for a new, enlightened renegotiation of the gatt regulations which today are an obstacle to setting in action the precautionary principle in the areas of health and food safety. the commission must also put a stop to the cap"s very serious drift towards collapse as a community-wide policy, as european prices are higher than those anywhere else in the world. those who are pushing for complete integration to the world market in order to satisfy american demands should be aware of the heavy responsibility that they bear. they are leaving many of our farmers no other option but to launch themselves ill-advisedly and prematurely into introducing new and untried methods of crop cultivation and animal-rearing, which have not been properly tested and which, therefore, may put public health at risk. ensuring the safety of our citizens" food is one of our prime duties. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us not allow european farming to go mad.
(fr) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has had, over the last few years, a succession of food-related scandals. we have had mad cow disease, we are questioning gmos and their labelling; we are now aware of the problem of the dioxin content in animal bone meal; we are seeing well-known soft drinks withdrawn from sale because they have been causing problems...we are all wondering what the next scandal will be: which one will be uncovered tomorrow. we must certainly not give in to a mood of panic, but it is quite reasonable for us to be asking ourselves about the quality of the products which we consume. concern about food safety is unfortunately far too recent a development in europe, emerging as it did at the time of the bse crisis. this concerns all of us, consumers, small producers, industrial-scale producers and farmers. we are all concerned because we care about public health, and this drives us. but at the same time, we also feel very worried for farmers who are directly involved and who have been singled out for blame, and for the whole food-processing industry. all parties are still suffering. these scandals have done them an injustice because there are some producers and farmers, very honest people, who do their best to ensure that their processes are faultless. we should not punish the whole profession because of a few people within its ranks who are less than honest. what can be done? we must recreate the right conditions for winning back consumer confidence in europe. we must therefore strengthen europe-wide rapid alert mechanisms. member states must be willing to accept health inspections. member states must not be made to feel that they are being singled out for blame if we ask them to make these inspections. we must all play the game. it is in everyone"s interest as we have this huge single market. this condition must be met if the market is to work successfully. if it is not, consumers will boycott products and we will find ourselves once again in an economic situation which most people will find extremely difficult. member states and the council must therefore both show greater transparency. quality producers who respect the environment must be offered support. we must, in effect, be brave enough to bring about a fundamental reform of agricultural policy if our consumers are going to want to consume our products again. we must guarantee vigilance and consistency in traceability and labelling. we must be especially resolute in discussions with the wto. we must, quite simply, put an end to unacceptable practices.
(fr) mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to have been able to address the commissioner for the environment and other commissioners too, because we know very well the harmful effects of dioxins on human health, and this is not merely an agricultural matter. it goes far beyond that. along with many scientists, we estimate that the spreading of carcinogenic dioxins into the human food chain will undoubtably be the scourge of the next century. i really would like the commissioner to hear what i have to say, because it is our job as well as his, within the framework of the policies which he will be putting into place, to find a way of integrating this problem into these different policies. we also believe that it is criminal to allow dangerous dioxins to spread into the human food chain. recent studies have shown that mother"s milk throughout the world is contaminated by dioxin, and that nobody is immune. we also know that the main causes, the things spitting out most dioxins, are incinerators. in this matter though, given the considerable financial cost of analysing it, we do not yet know how many people on continental europe are currently contaminated by dioxins, imagining that they are eating foodstuffs grown in a nice clean field, which are actually being grown near old incinerators still in use. the european union is responsible for conserving human health and the environment. this is why we are demanding first of all, a totally efficient warning system. it appears that we do not currently have one, given that france did not immediately interpret the announcement of contamination published by belgium as a health alert. we are also asking for a parliamentary enquiry. we know that when the announcement was made about the chicken ‘with dioxin in it’, consumers rushed out to buy fish, even though we know that fish are fed with the same food. what will be next on the list? we very much hope that the commission will be able to tell us.
(fr) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, we owe it to the people of europe to tell them the whole truth about this dioxin business. in addition to this, we must finally obtain world-wide figures for this sinister matter. that is why i am asking for a temporary parliamentary committee of enquiry to be established, with the responsibility of ensuring that the whole range of problems is brought to the table, and that all the lessons to be learned from it are looked at. i can see at least three. the first would be to amend european legislation which has shown obvious shortcomings. there are some products which need to be banned, and some mechanisms which need improving. the second is the question of the notification procedure which did not work and which must be clarified, toughened up and improved. and here we come to the vital matter of inspection. this europe of ours will not work, and there will be no confidence that europe does work, if we are not able to move from this type of co-ordination of inspection towards a genuine community-wide approach to at least some aspects of food inspection. from this point of view, mr prodi"s proposal for an authority or agency seems attractive. there is a need for an authority with specific responsibility for food safety, but it would have to remain independent, because we need both the commission and parliament to uphold the public interest in this matter. i would like to insist finally on the banning of animal bone meal. how many more times must we have the kind of accident that results from this practice before we put an end to this absurd system which leaves land fallow and farmers, who should be working in order to keep the heritage and the countryside of this europe of ours alive, unable to work because we favour the use of recycled waste, particularly animal waste. this is an absurd and dangerous system which we should really bring to an end. i would like to end with the idea that behind this question, which is asked so often, lies the fundamental issue of the direction that farming is taking in europe and around the world. we shall be reopening the wto negotiations, and like everyone else in this parliament, i expect you, the commission to ensure that standards for health, the environment and society are set to limit and restrict this theory, which is becoming more and more dangerous, of a free market whose prime motive is profit. europeans expect something better than this. mr commissioner, i would like to know if you are intending to propose a ban on animal bone meal and within what framework you think this measure might be possible.
yes, my dear fellow. in reality, the belgian authorities have sent the data on the names of the elected representatives late, and the services will of course do what is necessary to correct these lists.
absolutely, my dear fellow. that correction will be made, of course.
- absolutely, we'll systematically check all of this to make sure everything is in order.
mrs doyle, we are making as comprehensive an inventory as possible of all the malfunctions... and unfortunately there are many... that we have found in this building. this inventory will be drawn up early next week. it will be sent to all members - i have spoken - so that each of you can complete it if necessary. then we will make, as far as we can, of course, all the corrections we can arrange.
(fr) madam president, i would just like to point out that although i, like mrs thomas moreau, took part in the second round of the election of quaestors, this fact is not recorded in the minutes.
we'll make that correction too.
yes, mr staes, i know. chapter vii of this report will be available to you shortly. the chairman of the committee wrote to me to send me chapter vii and that the other chapters would not be available until september 13. i have already replied by asking to see him and to tell him that this is not at all in line with the wishes of our assembly. (applause from the centre)
(fr) madam president, it seems that there have been some amendments to the nomination of members of the committees and delegations. i would like to know if i am the only person who is not aware of these amendments, or if there are other meps in the same position, because before deciding if i am for or against an amendment, i would like to know what it is about.
- mr president, i shall announce these amendments very slowly so that everyone can read them, and as you will see, they do not pose any problems. that is why they have not been distributed before, but it is quite clear that otherwise all amendments must always be distributed before.
- i take note of your wish.
mr. elles, i just answered mr. staes. the situation is as i have just said, that is to say, a chapter of this report has been made available to us. that's not good enough. we therefore continue our request, as i have just replied to mr staes. the composition of the political groups: see minutes.
i have six amendments and, again, as i have just said, they are only adjustments between political groups, that is to say, exchanges of posts within the same group or the addition of an appointment to a post which was vacant.
(fr) madam president, you say that these are just revisions or changes, but we would like the socialist group to tell us, concerning its amendment 1, if it is an addition or a real change, and we would like the same answer from the european socialist group on their amendment 4.
mrs grossetête, i suggest that you listen to me, and then, if you are not satisfied, you can ask for further explanations.
- (fr) madam president, whether amendments 1 and 4 are important or not, have we been made aware of them ? why should mr elles, who belongs to one of the larger groups, have amendments that we are not even aware of? i cannot see the logic of this. (applause)
that's a good question, you know. the amendments have not been circulated to any member. i see. i do not know what mrs grossetête's information networks are, but there has been no privilege with regard to any member of parliament. (parliament adopted the joint motion for a resolution)
- mr president, if you have noticed, when i called your first amendment, i took care to give the full title. i thought we could save time by shortening it. (parliament adopted the resolution)
no, mr. beazley, the nominating ballot requests have to be made within certain time limits. (applause) i would like to thank it is quite possible that some colleagues voted electronically rather than by hand, but that is their absolute right. i personally had not observed this result. the machine is faithful. the result is what i just announced. we now come to the resolution of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats. since this resolution was not adopted, we are voting on the other resolutions. motion for a resolution (b5-0008/99) on behalf of the ppe group, on the conclusions of the european council meeting in cologne on 3 and 4 june 1999
no, mr barón crespo, we had a joint motion for a resolution from two political groups, the group of the european people's party and the european democratic group, and the liberal group. that resolution has just been rejected. so we now come to the vote on the various resolutions tabled by the groups individually. there you go. you're all right with that?
no, absolutely not, if that resolution had been adopted, but it hasn't. (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (b5-0014/99) by mr goerens and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the cologne european council (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (b5-0024/99) by mr bonde, on behalf of the group for a europe of democracies and diversities, on the european council held in cologne on 3 and 4 june 1999 (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (b5-0016/99) by mr hautala and others, on the cologne european summit on 3 and 4 june 1999 (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution) (parliament rejected the motion for a resolution)
we have just voted on the composition of the committees and delegations. as regards the annexes, you are quite right, my colleagues must have all the relevant documents, and i can tell you that we will see to that.
(fr) madam president, the cologne council launched two processes for institutional reform which, to our mind, avoid the fundamental issues. firstly, it decided to work on a charter which will bring together citizens" basic rights already in force throughout the union, but it did not state exactly what legal basis it should end up having, nor what it would add to current legislation. this is an obvious case of propaganda, with the aim of bringing to the table the idea of a european constitution which would itself legitimise a super-state ready to be constituted. the second cologne initiative was the work towards an intergovernmental conference on improving institutions with the future enlargement of the european union in mind. its mandate has expanded beyond what was foreseen in the first article of the protocol on institutions found in the annex to the treaty of amsterdam, because the cologne european council, without consultation, added the option to extend voting to the qualified majority. this solution strikes us as completely unworkable, for in order to prepare for enlargement, we need institutions which are not more rigid but more flexible, and that is why we feel that this mandate for negotiation must be set right by the helsinki council. the biggest drawback about the cologne conclusions is that they made a huge omission. almost nothing has been learned from the institutional point of view, from the major crisis, prompted last march by the collective resignation of the commission, as a result of irresponsible management. no amendment to the treaty was proposed. the possible reforms are being dealt with by the anti-fraud office and by romano prodi himself, who told us yesterday that he would be able to resolve almost everything by changing the internal workings of the commission and by putting forward a members" code of conduct. we are being taken for a ride, because the problems which led to the resignation of the commission are much more serious. they represent a huge gulf between the union"s institutions and its citizens, which can only be remedied by reform on a huge scale which would establish a europe of nations. by forgetting this, the cologne council managed to dodge the question of democracy itself.
, in writing.-(fr) concerning the summit which closed the council"s term under the auspices of the german presidency, i would like to insist from the very outset on the very good work achieved by this presidency within a perilous international context and in a period of ‘doubt’ in european opinion. there was no lack of seriousness and toughness. who could think otherwise? concerning the actual decisions taken, although i welcome the efforts devoted to employment and the decision on a ‘european employment pact’, i must state my unhappiness about the gains which were made and the concrete proposals put forward. i hope, therefore, that it represents a starting point (and not the point of arrival!). the overwhelming majority of the right in parliament, incidentally, will not make things any easier. the european left will therefore have a fight on its hands to help the council to implement its promises, and if possible, to go even further. unemployment is still ‘an absolute evil’ in today"s europe, destroying our society. we will see then, how this matter is followed up under the finnish presidency.
, in writing . – (fr) as far as i am concerned, there is no reason for soul-searching. europe was right to use military intervention. europe must do everything to punish the murderers. europe must contribute to the reconstruction of the region. i would like to say that, above and beyond these three points, the most important thing for me is that we quickly build a politically solid europe, to speed up enlargement in the east in order to strengthen democracy, to eliminate the residues of national communism and to reassure democratic governments by giving them the possibility of association and then accession. the balkan region is still very sensitive, and there is no guarantee that we will not face another, even more serious crisis. there is, therefore, no time to lose.
, in writing . – (fr) i am not one to defend terrorism and terrorists and so i am not shocked that mr öçalan should face trial in turkey. nevertheless, the drama of the kurdish people is very real, and if we want to see their rights respected, a reasonable and balanced solution will have to be negotiated with its representatives. this is assuming that there will not be an irrevocable decision on mr öçalan, especially an execution. finally, we must remind turkey that its association with europe implies respect for the same values and principles which unite the countries within the union. -contamination by dioxin
, in writing . – (fr) the issue that we are dealing with during this constitutive session is an extremely serious one: that of the dioxin crisis. i am pleased that it features on our agenda and that representatives of the european commission and the council spoke on this matter this morning at the request of our assembly. the scandal of chickens and other animals being contaminated by dioxin, this carcinogenic substance, brought back very bad memories for all consumers. this is the unpleasant impression for many of us, of having been through this scenario before – a scenario in which consumers are the last to find out what they are eating, and yet whose health is at serious risk. the vote for this resolution is a genuine sign of the will of the european parliament to get to the very bottom of this business and to answer consumers" legitimate concerns. at the time of the mad cow crisis, the european parliament did not spare any effort to have measures adopted for the protection of consumers. through its temporary committees of enquiry, it followed with great vigilance the way the european commission and the member states managed the crisis. its efficiency has been unanimously recognised by all european institutions. this is why i, like many of my colleagues, feel that we must set up a temporary committee of enquiry on the dioxin crisis. short-term solutions must be found in order to resolve problems caused by the contamination of foodstuffs in belgium, and in the longer term, debate must be started on the many questions first thrown up by the mad cow crisis and which are again coming to the fore because of this new food crisis. i am thinking, for example of the belgian government"s lack of transparency in alerting the european commission so late, and of the lack of information which was given to consumers. on a more global scale, the question being asked is ‘what kind of food policy do we want within the european union?’. the european parliament, as well as numerous consumer associations, has been able to give answers which are also ways forward for thinking about a new definition of the european union"s approach to food. this must uphold the interests of consumers, it must ensure that the precautionary principle prevails over all other principles, and it must set up an integrated inspection of the food chain in its entirety, from producer to consumer. this traceability is essential for food safety. this is, therefore, a global debate which we members of the european parliament must sustain throughout the next legislature. it must cover dioxin, hormones and gmos which are all very controversial issues.
that concludes the voting period. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 1.05 p.m.)
the minutes of yesterday"s sitting have been distributed. are there any comments?
i will make the president aware of your first point, and she will discuss it with the presidents of the groups at the conference of presidents. on your second point, the services have informed me that you were given all the documents relating to the minutes of the previous sitting. in any case, your comments have been noted.
this has been noted. i think that many here share your concern. it is important that we find out the result of every vote.
this correction has been made and everything is now as it should be.
i shall certainly make the president aware of this, but i think that the first step is to appeal first to the courtesy and public-spiritedness of our colleagues. i am sure that, given time, everyone will find ways of treating one another with respect. in any case, i hope that we will not find ourselves having to impose disciplinary measures. we will discuss this within the bureau to see how this problem can be dealt with.
on your first point, i have been told that the german interpreting service appears to be working again, and i am very relieved that this is the case. on your second point, i think that you are right. i shall inform our president of the comments which you and others have made. as you are part of the bureau, i know that you will also make her aware of this.
we shall be attending to this. incidentally, you have just given me the opportunity to tell our new colleagues that the procedure you have just mentioned is available to all members. this makes the sitting somewhat easier and also means that an mep does not have to come and point out the omission orally.
that is right. it seems that the report has indeed been given out to all meps. perhaps you should approach the distribution services. in any case, this is what i have been told, and i shall see to it that it is confirmed, and that everyone does indeed have access to this report. besides, you know that, unfortunately, the media sometimes manages to obtain information before the official channels are able to act. this is one of the great debates in society today.
as you know, in his new commission, mr prodi has nominated a commissioner with special responsibility for relations with parliament. we must be able to make mr prodi and his new commissioner aware of your proposal to have commissioners come and give detailed replies to questions which are relevant to them. having said that, the commission is a collective body, and mr kinnock certainly made use of all the necessary information in replying to us this morning, and i would like to thank him for being here. (the minutes were approved) composition of political groups – budgetary calendar – communication of common positions of the council – text of agreements forwarded by the council – action taken on parliament"s opinions and resolutions – documents received – transfer of appropriations: see minutes
the next item on the agenda is the commission"s statement on the fine imposed on the french football federation following its infringement of the european legislation on competition.
(fr) madam president, unlike the previous speakers, who were, it has to be said, all british – well, well, what a surprise! – i would like to protest against the commission"s decision, which i find quite astounding, to penalise the french football federation for so-called discrimination in the sale of tickets during the last football world cup. commissioner kinnock pointed out, and rightly so, that this has been the accepted practice in previous world cups. and why is this an accepted practice, ladies and gentlemen? well, it is quite simply that a world cup like that is organised by a country, and paid for by the tax-payers of that country. given these conditions, it is felt to be courteous and good practice to allocate a slightly larger quota to that country"s citizens. when a company floats shares for example, increases its capital, and then sells the shares, nobody says that it is illegal if it reserves a quota for its own employees, who are a vital component of the company"s lifeblood. this quota is, of course, a form of discrimination and yet, i feel it is a legitimate one. i, therefore, think that the commission was wrong to apply article 82 of the treaty because there was no real abusive exploitation of power, only a quite legitimate and understandable use of a set of circumstances which were highly unusual from a financial point of view. however, madam president, i would like to move on, because this is, when all is said and done, a relatively minor matter which is of no great consequence to life in our country. there are other more serious matters in which the commission has been guided by the same extremist mind set which may bring about very serious imbalances in our country"s economy and also in its employment figures. i am thinking in particular of the sanction imposed, yet again on france, for having allowed certain textile companies to reduce their national insurance contributions at a time when they were taking on new staff in an international climate which, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely tough, largely because of the international agreements negotiated by the commission itself. so these businesses are now going to have to repay the social grants which they were given because of an extremist, narrow-minded and almost plain stupid way of seeing things. it is an absolute scandal. i think that, in future, this parliament should set an example with a more considered vision, one which is more fair and impartial towards competition. (applause)
(fr) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that the market should be the only factor taken into consideration as regards the organisation of sporting events. during the 1998 world cup, of the two million tickets sold, the largest share was handled directly by fifa, which sent quotas to the 203 national football associations, with a larger share going to the 24 qualifying countries, of which the united kingdom was one. another share, 600, 000 tickets, was handled by the host nation, which reserved 37 % of this quota. the idea of putting all tickets for a sporting event of this size up for sale on the european market has never been put into practice by any country, as commissioner neil kinnock has just pointed out. in euro "96, for example, the football tournament organised in the united kingdom, 42 %, not 37 % of the tickets were reserved for the host nation. secondly, having control of the tickets is to have 90 % control of security. if the world cup was a success in this area too, if we had relatively few incidents, it was largely because this control over the tickets facilitated for example, franco-british co-operation in security matters, and efficiency in handling the arrival of groups of supporters, supervising them, and following up any problems. this allowed us to escape many outbreaks of hooliganism, which we hope never to see again on our continent. thirdly, the more individual sales that are made, the greater the risk of a black market developing. this is the lesson learned by the italians themselves, from organising the 1990 world cup, and it was obviously taken on board by the french organising committee. fourthly and finally, it is understandable to ensure that where a popular sport is concerned, when the host nation has invested nine billion francs in the event, the citizens of the host nation support and participate positively in this event, and this is also a key factor in its success. but it is also understandable that care is taken over the security of these citizens and also that of the groups from abroad, whom the host country accommodates for the occasion. during this world cup, ladies and gentlemen, you saw thousands of little zidanes and marcel desaillys, coming from the working-class neighbourhoods of marseilles, toulouse and strasbourg to applaud the exploits of the great zidane and the great desailly, but also those of the great owen, the great beckham, and the great di pietro. nobody could say that this amazing world cup was tainted by racial or social discrimination. it was an open and welcoming popular celebration. it gave us a wonderful picture of sport, a picture of the diversity of our teams and of our nations, and a picture of fraternity across our continent. the supporters group which was most successful and most appreciated by the french people was that of the scots. we, the citizens of france, did not go on holiday to australia in july 1998 because the world came to france, and because we were at the stade de france, at st-denis, at the velodrome, in marseilles with the people from our working-class neighbourhoods. ladies and gentlemen, i think that the european union"s priority in sport today is not to punish a member nation which has managed successfully to organise an event like this, but is rather, as romano prodi said yesterday, to engage in a real pan-european battle against doping, and this means refusing to allow the unique power of money to kill off the beauty and the very spirit of sport. (applause)
commission . – i should like to begin where ms gill left off, first of all by congratulating her on her maiden speech in this house. she will never feel such fear again or derive such satisfaction. i am sure the whole house thanks her for her contribution. indeed, she summed up the feelings of the commission in many ways when she said that she deeply regretted the existence of discrimination. that is the universal feeling in the commission, which is why my colleague, mr van miert, and his associates in the commission specifically sought to do something effective about preventing for all time in the future and indeed for 1998 the use of discriminatory practices by cfo. i should like to take up where mr vander taelen left off. when he said that football is a valid alternative to war i was reminded of the maxim that the first casualty of war is truth. as i listened to some of the contributions in the course of this debate, i could not escape the feeling that sometimes the first casualty of football is truth because there were one or two contributions that were made passionately, but largely without the recognition of fact. i would like to respond on behalf of the commission, with some repetition of fact. i regret it if i am repetitive, but if at first people do not hear, perhaps they will hear the second time. i begin with mr perry. i enjoyed his recitation of sound-bites about pathetic, appalling and all the rest of it. but what is he really saying when he says that the european commission has the power to impose a eur 20m fine? in theory and in constitutional terms, he is right. but is he really suggesting that the european commission should take eur 20m or eur 30m out of football and put it in the coffers of the european commission? mr ford says ‘yes’, he would rather that the european commission have the money than the cfo. he demonstrated a surprising distance from the realities of public opinion. this man has been my friend for a considerable time. i admire everything but his taste in football clubs. but the fact remains that if that were the course of action taken, he knows what the headlines would be. so does mr watson, who is disturbed about the reputation of the european union. he knows the headlines would say: ‘euros snatched from football’. let us be rational. is it sensible in the circumstances to take the money in large amounts from football and deposit it in the european commission's coffers, or is it sensible to take action that guarantees that on no future occasion will there be discriminatory sales of football or other international tournament tickets? then mr perry says that he wants this action to be absolutely firm and ferocious. i can understand the sentiment. but to be consistent the same action would have to be taken against the organisers of the european cup competition which happened to be in the united kingdom in 1996. football came home, it was said. are we really suggesting in this house, or anywhere else, that we should look back to 1996 or comparable competitions and say that we are dishing out eur 20m fines on those who organised these competitions? come on. let us be rational. let me return very briefly again to mr ford. he said those who make money out of football should put it back in. he knows very well that i am zealous in my support of that view. but i would suggest that we have to do rather more than attend only to international football ticket sales in order to bring about that intelligent and necessary recycling of funds. one point i want to focus on, in what mr ford said, is that the commission, he alleges, is sending out the message to organisers of euro 2000 and maybe future world cup competitions in the european union that they can ignore the rules. the absolute opposite is taking place. i had already said ten minutes before mr ford spoke that the organisers of the belgian and netherlands european championship have been in touch with the commission and not a single ticket will be sold on a discriminatory basis. they are already obeying the rules, setting the precedent, and, at all future times in the european union, that will be the way in which affairs are conducted. the football supporters and supporters of other sports quite rightly will now know that they have the protection of the law and organisers of tournaments will know that they will be the object of real and heavy punishment if they break what are now known to be the rules. this is the point. there was no knowledge of the rules. there is no case-law from the court of justice. there is no precedent of action by the european commission. the money would have been taken out of football if there had been a heavier fine. there would have to be a further effort to levy fines against previous organisers. the fact is that cfo, who i do not paint as plaster saints, the moment that our investigation commenced, stopped the discriminatory sales. everybody would have liked that to have occurred earlier, but it did happen. when mr watson says, therefore, that this is not the first time that organisers have rigged the sales, he may be right. but this is the first time that the legal competition authority has stopped the rigging, stopped the discriminatory sales and the first time that any competition authority in the world has prevented for all future time the use of discriminatory methods in the sale of tickets. mr watson accepted my point when i said that this was a case where consumers were hit but the effect was not on the market as it is generally understood. i think he conceded that because he said that was my claim and the problem was that the reputation of europe had suffered. i would put this point to him, a man for whom i have very high regard, as i do for the other participants in this debate: that reputation can only suffer if what has occurred is misrepresented. i know there is no-one in this house who will ever want to do that. i therefore appeal for attention to the facts. whilst i fully understand and indeed, to a degree, share the passions about the way in which the big business of football so frequently now is operating in ways that contradict the interests of genuine football fans, i accept all that. i ask for fair treatment in this case as indeed in many others. it was uncharacteristically unworthy of one honourable member to say that he could understand why my colleague mr van miert is not here because of the gravity of this case. if there has ever been a commissioner in the forty-two year history of the european union who has publicly demonstrated integrity and guts, it is mr van miert. the reason he is not here this morning is because he has to attend to his work, not from any cowardice. it is infamous for anybody to even infer that is the reason for his absence.
thank you, mr commissioner. forwarding of resolutions adopted during the sitting – dates for next part-session: see minutes
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 9.55 a.m.)
- i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 23 july 1999.
- absolutely, we intend to study this issue with colleagues, but also with the associations which are competent for these problems, so that everything that needs to be done is done. but i will of course answer you before friday since you wish it.
- mr president, as you can imagine, i have planned for this friday to be a review of all the old and new problems that have not been corrected, so that we can see all this. i would ask you to hold all your comments on the premises until friday, so that we can have a thorough debate on the subject then. in case of emergency, we will see if the problem can be solved by friday, but i am not sure.
- as you know, mr president, we have put this tragic question on the agenda of our part-session. we are therefore going to have a very thorough debate on the matter with the intervention of the finnish presidency and the vote on a text. that is why i did not mention the situation in east timor when i opened this sitting. but i can tell you, as you know, that i am very concerned about her. i have already spoken very strongly on behalf of all of us on this matter. as you may also know, a small mission of observers was organized as a matter of urgency during the summer by president baron crespo, who came to see me for this purpose, and i gladly complied with this request. so, my dear colleague, we are very much in solidarity with all of this.
- mr president, i have heard your request, which is quite legitimate, even if you do not suffer from asthma. it is very unpleasant indeed and we will see to it that these areas are strictly respected.
- mr president, i have of course heard your speech, which will be placed appropriately in the context of the debate we have organized on this subject.
- the minutes of the friday, july 23rd, session have been distributed. are there any observations?
- thank you, mr posselt. i'll take note of your request. if there are no further comments on the minutes, i declare them adopted. composition of parliament - offices of interparliamentary delegations and joint parliamentary committees - composition of committees - submission of documents - transmission by the council of texts of agreements - submission to committees: see minutes.
- ladies and gentlemen, as mr perry has just said, i think i can say that almost the whole of our parliament shares, of course, the emotion of the colleagues who are holding up the banners in question. however, this demonstration sets a terrible precedent and if today there is a great consensus on the timorese cause, you understand that this may not always be the case. in addition, as i said, we have a debate on this subject. we want this to be a very serious debate, and i have no doubt about that, a debate which will lead to the political role which our european parliament feels it should play in this situation. i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take back your placards. the message went very well. but that is enough, because we should not set a precedent which could, in other circumstances, seriously impede the functioning of our assembly. i thank you for your understanding and in return i will accept your request and ask you to rise so that we can observe a minute's silence in memory of the victims of timor. (the house adopted the resolution)
- you will remember that at its meeting on 27 and 28 july the committee on constitutional affairs considered a request for interpretation of rule 29 (1) of the rules of procedure made by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 21 july. the committee on constitutional affairs concluded that 'the declaration on the constitution of the technical group of independent members, mixed group, is not in accordance with rule 29 (1) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament'. the committee on constitutional affairs continues: 'the declaration of constitution of this group, in particular annex 2 to the letter of constitution addressed to the president of the european parliament, excludes any political affinity. it gives the various signatory parties complete political independence within the group.' the committee on constitutional affairs requests that the following interpretation be inserted in article 29 (1) of our rules of procedure: 'the formation of a group which openly denies any political character and any political affinity between its members cannot be accepted within the meaning of that article'. this interpretation will be duly recorded in the minutes of today's sitting. it will then be inserted in the rules of procedure, but if tomorrow, before the minutes are adopted, a political group or at least 32 members object to this interpretation in accordance with rule 180 (4) of the rules of procedure, the matter will then be referred immediately to the house, which will decide, as appropriate, by a simple majority, in the presence of at least one third of its members. that's the rule. if the matter is rejected, it shall be referred back to the committee responsible.
- there's no point in starting a debate on this. i thank you for having informed us in advance that there will be opposition to this interpretation and that our assembly will therefore be called to vote tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. in accordance with the procedure i mentioned earlier.
- the agenda calls for the fixing of the agenda. the final draft agenda, as drawn up by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 9 september, has been distributed to you.
- it is quite obvious, mr chichester, that if this report has not been voted on by the committee concerned, there can be no question of voting on it in plenary. so let us check this point, which i thank you for bringing to my attention. (the president read out the amendments to the agenda for wednesday, thursday and friday) see minutes of the sitting. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended) transfers of appropriations - time to speak: see minutes.
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the follow-up to the second report of the independent experts which was given to you, as you requested, as soon as possible. we have really done our best to ensure that you can get to know about it early enough, especially in the groups. i would remind you that at its meeting on thursday 9 september the conference of presidents decided to refer the matter to the committee on budgetary control for a report to be drawn up.
- madam president, my colleague herman schmid will speak on behalf of my group in this debate. i would like to make a preliminary remark and ask mr kinnock a very specific question. reading the second report of the committee of experts makes it clear how right we were in asking the five wise men to continue their investigations and reflections beyond the case of one commissioner in particular, in order to establish a more general diagnosis of the institution as a whole. and that diagnosis is edifying. the title of the report is a strong condemnation of the outgoing commission: to put an end to mismanagement, irregularities and fraud. the old college must be reminded, 42 years after the institution was set up, of the need, i quote, 'to hold the commissioners accountable from the drafting of a proposal to its implementation'. as can be seen from the conclusions of the experts' report, the problem is not so much the malfunctioning itself as a problem of mentality, which is obviously not the fault of the commission's officials, but of the institution's structural shortcomings, which are not technical but political in nature. another paper had already been produced on this subject and had provided an analysis which i considered to be clear and relevant. moreover, the commission itself had commissioned it from its own prospective unit in preparation for the pörtschach european council, and then it closed it without any follow-up. it contained, for example, a substantive criticism of the commission's tendency - like that of other administrations - to, i quote: 'deal with its own area in its own logic, listening to a certain type of lobby and not taking sufficient account of the consequences outside its field of expertise'. this insight into the crisis facing the commission and all the european institutions would help to situate the analyses of the independent experts in their overall political context, which is characterised, in the words of the document of the prospective unit in question, by the exhaustion of a certain way of organising public action, by a crisis of governance that is taking the european union by storm. my question to commissioner kinnock is therefore simple: will you agree to make public this document from the outgoing commission, the urgency of which is shown by our debate?
- madam president, the second report of the independent experts which has just been handed over to us is remarkable for the extent and quality of the work done in a few months and also for the desire to describe frankly the internal dysfunctions of the commission. this is the first time i have read, from official and authoritative circles, such a powerful analysis, without tongue or falsehoods. on this basis we can work on serious reforms. the report finds that there are virtually no rules for granting subsidies. the advisory committee on contracts has only a formal and subordinate role of verification. that the commission used the technical assistance office to escape budgetary constraints. that in shared management expenditure the commission and the member states mutually decommit. that a priori financial control is practically useless. that internal audit is too weak. the financial regulation is not adapted to the requirements of modern management and effective control, or the investigations of the anti-fraud unit tend to take too long, with microscopic results. these findings correspond to what my group has been denouncing for a long time, as do the technical solutions proposed, whether it be the strengthening of internal audit, the fight against fraud, transparency and the obligation for the commission to be accountable. however, it seems to us that the committee of independent experts does not go far enough in its analysis of the political causes of the crisis, but perhaps, after all, that was not its role at this stage. for example, when you read phrases like this, page 64, "why has the commission lost control of technical assistance? because the financial regulation has never sufficiently developed contract law', one cannot help but have the disturbing impression that the reasoning remains unfinished. why was the financial regulation inadequate? why hasn't it been improved? didn't many people find advantages in these imperfections? and, in the end, has not the theory of the commission's independence, which is cultivated by the federalists but which ends up weakening controls, provided a breeding ground for irregularities and fraud which go unpunished? under its cover, organised networks of embezzlement and laundering of community money have been set up, such that fraud is no longer mainly the result of individual misconduct, as denounced in the first report by the experts, but rather of hidden and permanent mechanisms. this is why, according to the europe of nations group, the real political problem facing us today is the status of the commission, a supranational institution with little control and lacking in prerogatives, privileges and immunities. there is a worrying development in this respect. whereas the european parliament has recently tried to strengthen its control over the commission and the theory of independence should therefore logically be set back, it is being revived and asserted with new strength; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the hearing last week, commissioner kinnock clearly supported, in his written and oral answers, two strange principles which i quote from the text. firstly, the principle of management independence, which would be enjoyed by the directorates-general vis-à-vis the commissioners, and secondly, the principle of non-interference, to which the commissioners would be subject vis-à-vis the departments. mr kinnock went on to say that in his experience over the last few years these principles have worked very well. of course, this is not at all the view of my group, nor is it the view of the committee of experts, which in its chapter 7 states precisely that the distinction between policy and management within the commission is not defendable, i quote, either in law or in practice, that it allows political responsibilities to be avoided, that it should logically be eliminated in favour of hierarchical subordination to the politically responsible commissioners. we find a total contradiction between the recommendations of the experts' report and the intentions of the new commission. the consequences of this will have to be drawn from the vote on wednesday on the college's presentation. everyone will have to take responsibility. the privileges and immunities of the commission and its officials are clearly a serious obstacle to the fight against fraud. this is in fact the first difficulty faced by olaf, the european anti-fraud office, when it wants to prosecute european officials before national courts. indeed, i quote the report, 'in order to pursue a criminal investigation against commission officials, a national court must request the lifting of official immunity for suspects, professional secrecy for witnesses and the inviolability of commission premises for searches and access to documents'. such obstacles can discourage even the best of intentions. that is why my group's priority is to abolish them and to bring the commission under ordinary law before looking for other solutions such as the establishment of a european public prosecutor, which would satisfy the federalist whims but would not bring much more compared to the powers of olaf in the fight against fraud. more generally, the control of the commission should be strengthened. the european parliament's control, of course, and for example our assembly should, following this report by the experts, request new audits on specific points or even appoint one or more committees of inquiry to clarify certain areas which are still unclear, for example the evaluation of the real impact of community subsidies. but if it stands alone, the european parliament's control over the commission will be insufficient for two reasons: first, because the european parliament shares the commission's objectives and because it is not subject to pressure from public opinion. this control must therefore be complemented by that of the council. the council must stop allowing itself to be poisoned by the special reasoning of the federalists. it must restore its authority, remove from the commission its privileges and immunities of an earlier age. it must not let itself be deprived of the future intergovernmental conference and must take advantage of it to take back the initiative, strengthen the fight against fraud and subject the commission to a new form of accountability to governments. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, one aspect of the discussion on the experts' report concerns community staff, which i believe includes the staff of the european parliament. that is why i am addressing my question to mr kinnock as well as to the president of parliament. in their report, the wise men highlight the lack of transparency in recruitment and recommend that the rules and principles be applied to eu staff. that is very good, but we should also do the same for the staff of the european parliament. we have heard of many cases of irregularities, of non-respect of the charter of the social rights of workers within the european parliament, and in particular by subcontracting companies. there have been, for example, such gross irregularities as the payment of night-time guards at daytime rates. the problem also arises with regard to social protection under local law. there are wage problems. and these are just a few examples. so my question is: what measures do you intend to take to identify all these irregularities and, above all, to put an end to them?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say on behalf of the socialist group that we fully support mrs jackson's report. i think the question is important. we have seen that, although this is not the direct subject of this report, with the dioxin case we can make all the european directives, all the recommendations, all the laws we want, if the inspection does not ensure that they are applied, i believe that the deep doubt of our fellow citizens about the european effectiveness and the interest of these standards is likely to develop. we therefore need to make control and inspection more community-based. of course, a balance must be struck between the responsibility of the member states and european intervention. in this respect, we support mrs jackson's request that we not only adopt recommendations but that we move to a real directive, which sets out specific criteria which each member state will have to respect in the implementation of its inspection. we therefore support all the amendments, and we hope that the commission will be attentive to the need to set rigorous frameworks. we have heard the new commissioner, mrs wallström, whom we have questioned on the question of the effectiveness of the laws. she said the commission intended to be more rigorous so that, finally, inspection would be effective and strictly enforced. we therefore want parliament's amendments to be accepted. finally, after the examples we have had with dioxin, we see clearly the risk we are taking. either we move in a reasonable and rigorous way towards an effective european inspection of the member states, in the framework of a european vision. but the second step is the setting up of european inspectors - i would say super-inspectors - who will be able to check the proper functioning of the inspections of the member states. if we do not do this, then, in the first crisis, in the absence of a member state inspectorate and a european inspection logic, we will have to resort to an independent agency which will have to be set up to deal with the food question, for example, as we saw during the debate on this question. i don't think that's the right answer. the right answer is inspection, control and rules, politically controlled by the representative bodies of our union, and in which the european parliament must have full responsibility. we therefore hope that the commission will pay attention to the proposals in the jackson report, both to move on to a directive and finally to enter a new stage for community inspection.
commission - (es) i see no problem with that, mrs jackson, in terms of transparency. the only country which has spoken in favour of implementing a directive is denmark. the other member states voted against. i will tell you again why my other colleagues are not here: as president-in-office and as the last of the mohicans by nature, i have decided to represent the commission throughout the week in order to allow the new colleagues to meet next wednesday. but we must have coreper in brussels. coreper has to make a decision. the new decision must be formally published in the official journal of the communities at noon on the 16th and that is why the administrative machinery must be set in motion. but think about it. to table a directive when you know that 14 member states are against it is a heroic task. try it. in the european parliament, one of the points you will be negotiating with the 'prodi commission' is the sharing of responsibility for the legislative initiative with the european commission. i think this will be very useful for the european parliament because you may find that it is much more difficult to work with the council of ministers than to simply write a report.
- ladies and gentlemen, we had a few minor technical problems with yesterday's minutes. it seems that not all colleagues have received it. since a number of colleagues were not able to have the minutes, i do not think i can submit them to your approval. this is one of the things we will gradually improve so that this kind of incident does not happen again. so we shall approve tomorrow morning the minutes of today's sitting and yesterday's sitting. however, we still have a problem. you will recall that we were scheduled to vote this morning on the interpretation of the regulation proposed by the constitutional committee on the technical group of independent members, mixed group. i turn to the representatives of this group. if mr dell'alba thinks that, in view of the absence of the minutes, we should also postpone this vote, i shall do so. it's a perfectly normal thing. if he thinks we can vote, i will explain what it is again so that all colleagues are well informed.
- mr dell'alba, that seems to me to be quite correct.
- mr barón crespo, there is no vote at noon and i do not think it would be desirable to interrupt the debate with mr prodi to approve a minutes. i say this very simply, although it is very important to approve a report. honestly, i think it's better tomorrow.
- first, will we have that minutes at noon? since i have been assured that everyone will have the minutes in their own language at that time, we can pause the debate for a moment to approve the minutes. but the house will decide on this and we will then also vote at noon on the interpretation of the constitutional committee. that makes sense. so i turn to the assembly. which is in favour, considering i've just been confirmed that everyone will be taking the minutes.
- mr. pannella, i have not changed my mind. the only decision i have taken and which i am still maintaining is that at this very moment i will not have the members vote on a minutes which they do not have, nor the annex to that minutes. now i have a proposal for a vote at noon and there was a possible vote at noon on the agenda. i personally did not want mr prodi's debate to be interrupted. now i'm told there may be consequences if we don't vote today. i therefore turn to the house, not at all to change my decision, but to get its opinion on the proposal that has just been made to vote on this minutes at noon. it's clear, it's clean. (parliament agreed to the request) the proposal is therefore adopted. we shall vote on the minutes at noon and then on the interpretation of the rules of procedure. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution arising from the use of certain substances and preparations is therefore in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
- the next item is the statement by mr prodi, president-designate of the commission.
- mr president of the commission, since your appointment as president of the commission and the appointment of the nineteen commissioners, you and the members of the new college have taken great pains to send a very clear message to the european parliament. we heard you. you and the commissioners have found the words to say it: change, reform, questioning, new culture, glasnost. often suspected of arrogance, the commission has been able to step down from its pedestal. it is known as opaque and has committed itself to transparency. severely criticized by the committee of wise men, she took the recommendations of independent experts. the commissioners were so unanimous in their views with the majority of members that even the groups which, for non-european reasons, had promised to be aggressive, quickly buried the hatchet. in short, you set yourself the goal of regaining the confidence of parliament, and you have set yourself the means to achieve this. it is clear, however, that you have not met with the same willingness the other challenge - albeit more ambitious - that you have just mentioned, mr president of the commission: regaining the confidence of the citizens. and that's where the real pain comes in. you can see, as we do, that a real phenomenon of rejection of neoliberalism, which is the source of strong aspirations for justice, solidarity and change, is emerging in our societies. what new responses do you bring to the growing rejection of the rampant precariousness of working life and life in general? what new answers do you bring to this thirst for resistance in the face of the unbridled race for profitability, which is being expressed throughout europe, for example, right now in my country, through the huge movement of sympathy surrounding the workers of the michelin group, which has just announced 7,500 job cuts in europe, after seeing its profits rise by 20 per cent. what new answers do you have for those who expect europe to provide a real impetus for alternatives to globalisation and the exclusion of people at work today, whether it be workers, farmers, people of culture who challenge the rules of global trade, or the two young guineans who are victims of the exodus of poverty, in the absence of an international order recognising the right to life, work and dignity for every human being? i would point out in this connection, mr president of the commission, that in your inaugural address i did not hear you mention the relations between europe and the south, that is to say the majority of mankind. in general, the commission's answers to all these questions of civilisation are excessively conventional: they lack the creative ambition of major projects. i emphasized at the beginning of my speech the efforts you have made to meet parliament's expectations. what i have just mentioned does not erase this advance, but relativises it. my group is even less concerned about the slight shift in the centre of gravity from the commission to the parliament which has just spoken, since this confirms to the public that it is possible to move the seat of power, even those considered untouchable, which is very important. i would add that we are interested in the construction sites that have been opened in this way. we will therefore be demanding but constructive partners in this respect. however, we cannot be satisfied with administrative reform when our fellow citizens are asking us about the very meaning of europe today. at this stage, therefore, we cannot, to our great regret, place our trust in the commission.
mr president, the statement by the president-designate of the commission confirms his previous statements, in particular to our assembly on 13 april or 4 may, and the french members of my group will therefore be forced to vote against it. mr prodi sees himself as the head of government of a european superstate, which sees no solution to its problems except by advocating ever greater integration, ever greater unification, ever greater reduction of national powers. in the course of the hearings last week, the commissioners-designate made a zealous attack on this subject, in order to prove to their examiners their federalist aspirations. mr barnier even won the bid by proposing to move towards a 'european sovereignty', i quote, 'substituting national sovereignty'. let me say in passing that these hearings, in this form, which push the candidate commissioners to make commitments that their peoples would not approve of, seem to me to introduce a certain distortion in the fairness of the procedures. mr prodi also described his exaggerated view of the primacy of competition, according to which public service would be acceptable only if it did not impede the market. the president-elect advocates the continuation of the liberalization of international trade along the reductive path taken by the uruguay round. this assessment was later moderated somewhat by pascal lamy, but it is not clear how he would manage globalization without requiring a profound change in the rules of the game, in particular by introducing the notion of social or environmental cost in international negotiations. finally, mr prodi insisted that the commission should be the main driver of accelerated action to revise the treaties in many areas. this view is clearly leading to a future enlarged intergovernmental conference, where the nations would be stripped of their prerogatives and would have no control over anything. the impetus has already been given by mr prodi, who himself appointed a committee of experts to produce a preliminary report on behalf of the commission, even though the cologne council had explicitly rejected the idea of a committee of experts. we never know exactly how the wise men are chosen, but we know in advance what they will conclude: to go even further towards the superstate. i would like to say to you today, mr prodi, that we will not fight fraud as you wish, we will not restore democracy in europe by building an artificial superstate which, by its very nature, would involve a commission and a european civil service cut off from the people. on the contrary, they must be opened up and their ties with the nations restored. mr prodi, you used the term 'glasnost' to describe your future policy. this word, which was used to describe soviet institutions, seems to me particularly appropriate for the commission of today. i hope that, like the other glasnost, yours will introduce a shake-up in anti-democratic institutions which will lead to reforms which you do not foresee today.
- mr president, the problem today is not to judge the commission's programme but the functioning of the institutions. you said, mr prodi, that we must get past the crisis of last year and turn the page. however, in our view, you have not learnt the lessons of the crisis. in fact, despite the recommendations of the first report of the committee of independent experts, confirmed by the second report which has just been published, nothing serious is being done to change the commission's methods and operating methods. the new commission thus includes four commissioners who were part of the recently disavowed old team. although they were not personally involved, they endorsed the incompetence of the santer commission as a whole and its lack of collective responsibility. the group for a europe of democracies and diversities also strongly regrets that the reform that the commission needs is being entrusted to a member of the former team. during the hearings of the future commissioners, the edd group naturally noted the quality of most of these commissioners, but criticized certain centralising orientations. we want a change in culture and a democratisation of the current system, and we want greater respect for parliament. it is therefore currently impossible to ask for the resignation or non-renewal of an individual commissioner without calling into question the commission as a whole and without provoking an open crisis. the cultural revolution, mr president, which you have announced, is not in sight. bad manners go unpunished, and the system's dysfunctions persist. parliamentary work is also marred by questionable practices. the second report of the committee of independent experts, which was discussed in plenary on monday, has not yet reached the majority of members, or has only just reached them, and this has prevented us from studying it seriously. in these circumstances, the six cpnt members, like the whole of the edd group, will vote against the appointment of the prodi commission to denounce a profoundly undemocratic system.
- mr prodi, you are a man of great talent, surrounded by men and women of equal talent: professor monti, mr barnier, mr busquin, who survived where mrs cresson had fallen for a pot of jam, and your talented commission is about to have the big meeting in seattle. you are, with mr lamy, the negotiator of the fifteen. but will you operate in transparency, or will you operate as blair house did in 1992, where it took a year, october 1993, to get the blair house text? in other words, is your model the democracy of athens or the oligarchy of venice? that is the real question of the intergovernmental conference. the problem is not qualified majority voting or reducing the number of commissioners. the problem is to operate in a realistic, compromise way, perhaps even with a compromise as in luxembourg in 1965. after all, the world trade organization has over 137 members and operates by consensus. so we can expand to twenty while respecting the identity of each one. in other words, enlargement is not an institutional problem. maybe it's a tax problem to know who will pay: will there be an income tax? perhaps it is a geographical problem: how far to expand? you mentioned ukraine. in the south, do we have to go as far as turkey? and there, at some point, will be a point of civilization, not between maimonides, averroes or st. augustine, but between the islamists, who bomb moscow or who massacre in timor, and the refined civilization of which you are a symbol. in other words, mr prodi, when you try to synthesize the east and the west, you end up with byzantium and you know how that ends. that's why we'll vote against the byzantine way, while admiring the basileus you might have been.
- mr president, mr commission president-elect, a word on the wto and agriculture. we need the wto to organise the opening up of markets, not to be subjected to it. this is particularly true for agriculture. everyone knows that our agriculture, our rural world is not comparable to australia, argentina and the usa. in the face of this, europe has a duty to defend its model of agriculture and the right to an adapted common agricultural policy. we expect multinational agreements to take account of the concerns of our producers and consumers. we expect that the next negotiations will take into account the fact that we have production structures in europe, environmental and social conditions which lead to costs which must be compensated by public support. i would also like to point out that the competitiveness of agriculture is not only measured on world markets, but also in terms of the balance of territories, the maintenance of the rural fabric and the conservation of the natural heritage. this is why the concept of multifunctional agriculture must also be recognised at the wto. that is why, mr president of the commission, we intend to continue the debate on all these issues with the commissioners concerned and we intend to follow very closely the development of this negotiation.
- mr president, the lo and lcr members will vote against the prodi commission. the european commission, the executive body of the european union, is designed to serve the interests of europe's large financial and industrial groups in international competition. the role of the european parliament is to help create the most favourable conditions for multinational companies in their continuing efforts to increase their profits at the expense of their own employees, the most recent example being michelin, and beyond, to the detriment of the majority of the population of the european union and the people of poor countries. the way in which it is appointed, how it functions and who is on it reflect this fundamental reality. the essential interests of the working classes are not taken into account. disastrous unemployment, job cuts, the european union is taking refuge behind national governments to justify all this. as for the harmonization measures which are within its competence, they do not even improve the situation in countries where the legislation is most unfavourable to the working classes and disadvantaged or discriminated groups, women and immigrants in particular, because harmonization, when it exists, is done from below. the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a resolution on the situation in the community.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the french members of the ppe/de group have a rather positive view of the prodi commission. this appreciation is not a blank check, however. we are not talking about a hard check, mr president, because we are aware of the changes that have taken place since the last commission. mr prodi, at the request of the groups, and of our group in particular, has made very clear commitments on the transparency of the commission's actions, on consultation with parliament, on the accountability of the members of the commission to our assembly. on the major issues to come - negotiations on the world trade organisation, the intergovernmental conference, debates on the mediterranean - the president of the commission also expressed his willingness to involve all members of parliament as actors, as decision-makers. all of this is in the right direction. but we can't write a blank check either. firstly, although the hearings of the commissioners went well overall, they did not generate unanimous enthusiasm. in july, without calling the individual into question, we had already denounced the political imbalance in this commission which does not correspond very much to the distribution of forces in this house. in september, some of the commissioners did not necessarily seem to us to be up to the ambitious projects you yourself had set out. this morning, mr president, you said that you wanted an honest and efficient administration, competent commissioners who were above suspicion, and a political programme for the next five years, in full liaison with parliament. how can i not approve? mr president, the great challenges that lie ahead - enlargement, the deepening of a european reality that respects national identities through a new approach to subsidiarity, the safeguarding of our agriculture, the building of a more humane and generous europe in terms of employment - are such that we must face them together. but if we do not give you a blank cheque, we are expressing our willingness to work together to give all the peoples of europe, despite the difficulties and conflicts, reasons to believe in their own destiny and to hope for their common future.
- mr prodi, you have expressed your desire to restore the citizens' confidence in the construction of europe and in the european union. we believe that much of the discrediting of the european union is linked to its inability to combat effectively the ravages of the neoliberal environment. the members who are here, all of whom have campaigned on the social emergency and the fight for more jobs, have a mandate to make real progress towards a europe of jobs. the work programme you are presenting today, as you have announced to us, as it has been implemented for several years, is far from being up to the standards we have set. the greens propose a number of measures concerning the active, comprehensive and massive reduction of working time and the support for sustainable economic activities, which create jobs, in sectors such as housing construction, public transport and renewable energies. we also believe that there is an urgent need to raise and harmonise minimum social standards at european level. we are aware, of course, that there is no consensus within the european union, including this parliament, on this programme of work and the fight against precariousness and unemployment. however, we believe that it is urgent and a matter of responsibility to allow public debate on these issues. we are therefore deeply saddened by the exclusion of the european parliament from the cologne employment process and we ask you, mr prodi, to do everything possible to ensure that parliament can regain its full place in this employment process. (applause) i would like to thank
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. you've all been able to read it. are there any observations?
- indeed, it will be done. the minutes will be corrected and supplemented accordingly.
- i shall be speaking on the minutes and on the intervention of our colleague on what you have just said, if i may, madam president. just as you rightly postponed the vote this morning, since the minutes on which the assembly was to take a decision were not available, it is quite clear that the assembly will be able to take a decision only on the provision in the minutes, which is a general provision, and not on the specific conclusions which follow from it. that is the first point, madam president, which seems to me to be out of the question. the decision of the assembly shall apply to the general provision which constitutes an interpretation of rule 29 of these rules. i would also like to say very briefly, if i may, why we do not think that this interpretation should be adopted. article 29 (4) of our rules of procedure provides that a group statement must indicate the name of the group, the names of its members and the composition of its bureau. these are the only three requirements of our regulations. if, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps in contempt of the rights of minorities, by the expression of a hegemonic will on the part of the large groups, you adopt an interpretation which goes beyond the very clear letter of parliament, i would draw your attention to the fact that you would be creating a very important and very damaging precedent which could one day or another turn against any of the groups or subgroups in this house. you would in fact give the majority of the house, in a conjunctual way, the opportunity to express its opinion on the political affinities which may exist between certain members who have nevertheless put their signature at the bottom of the constitution of a group, and we know very well that there are factions, even within the majority groups, which are not, if necessary, in agreement among themselves on a common political programme. that is why, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we appeal to the wisdom of this house, to its moderation and above all to its respect for the rights of minorities, which, it must be said, have not been particularly honorable for it so far. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr dell'alba, one thing is clear: i know what i said yesterday and not only do i know it, but i have before me the text i read yesterday and which no one can dispute. we have a procedure which provides for the adoption of the minutes and which provides that members who consider that the minutes do not conform to what has been said may not do so. i could also consider that my words were not accurately recorded as i have expressed them and as i find them here. i can therefore of course accept the correction requested by mr napoletano, since i am better placed than anyone else to consider that my remarks have not been reported correctly. so i can't help but remember this correction. are there any further comments on the minutes?
- i'm sure you will, mr pannella. in fact, we must not confuse the two. for the moment, i ask everyone to make the corrections they think are necessary to the minutes, perhaps on other points besides this one. as we have always done, i shall then declare the minutes adopted with the corrections that have been notified to me. only then will we vote on the objection to your interpretation. are there any other observations?
- mr posselt, we will check that your remarks yesterday were recorded correctly in the minutes, since that is all that is at issue, and not a reopening of the debate on the matter. (the minutes were approved)
- i have received from the technical group of independent members, in accordance with rule 180 (4), an objection to the interpretation proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs of rule 29 (1). in accordance with the rules of procedure, i submit the interpretation to parliament. i remind you, as i said yesterday, that our rules require a simple majority, in the presence of at least one third of its members. i suppose there are 209 members in attendance and more, but we shall be able to check this very easily anyway since there is a nominal request for a vote. (interpretation is adopted)
- mr president-elect, you are well aware of this, you have the confidence of a large part of this house, for reasons connected with your career and also, i believe, with your human and personal qualities. you will therefore have the confidence of this house and, because of you, many of us will vote for your whole team. you will be in charge of the european general interest. that is the commission's task. it seems to me that this general european interest requires that you now, in the next five years, respond to two main challenges. the first challenge is the lack of understanding of the european institutions among the european people. what is at work here are institutions for insiders, which the people do not understand, of which they are not informed, and because they are obscure to them, they place a suspicion on these institutions, and often an excessive suspicion. it is your duty as defenders of the general european interest, and it is our duty as representatives of the peoples, to make this action legible, and that is why we are defending, as you know, the idea of a constitution, of working on a european constitution. the second challenge, and far more important, is whether there is a societal project for europe. europe was made to carry a project, and in these times of globalisation when citizens have the impression, the feeling, that all the real decisions are taken elsewhere, and particularly in the world of finance, it is important to rehabilitate the idea of a project for europe that is understood by citizens and defended by the institutions. the formulation of a project for europe is your responsibility as president of the commission, just as it is ours as representatives of the peoples. you are well aware, and this is my conclusion, that the key to europe's future lies in the dialogue between the european parliament and the commission.
- mr president-elect, the members of the french socialist delegation are concerned with the effective functioning of the institutions, which means the rapid establishment of a strong commission, in the sense of respect for the treaties, that is to say with the coincidence between your mandate and ours. they also have a certain sense of political responsibility. that is why tomorrow they will vote in your favour, because we consider that the composition of your commission, in agreement with the council, is balanced. we've assessed the quality of your team members. but as you know, as you may expect, this is by no means a vote of no confidence. for us, the political account is not there. we're waiting for you on your program. we expect you to commit yourselves to defining and defending the european social model, to rebalancing competition policy with other policies, as the treaty of amsterdam calls for. so that the so-called structural reforms of the labour market do not necessarily lead to more unemployment. finally, i would like you to take account of these major projects which must enable europe to achieve job-creating growth without throwing thousands more unemployed people onto the streets. we also expect you to implement a development policy which will enable europe to maintain its place in the solidarity between north and south. we also expect you to tell us how you feel that international standards should be developed. do you think it is up to the wto to define what the internal legal order of the european union should be or do you think it is up to us to define the rules that should serve as our framework? on the institutional side, we welcome the positions you have taken on a broad definition of the mandate of the intergovernmental conference and we look forward to the report of your three wise men. but we are concerned about who will be in charge of your team for the drafting, the drafting of the bill of rights. and then we ask you about the implementation of this reflection on the future architecture of the union. this is an emergency for your commission. in short, the establishment of your commission has allowed a new relationship to be established between your institution and ours. we look forward to it. in this exercise our parliament has shown what a modern and democratic parliament can be. we expect the same from your institution and, under these conditions, you will have our support.
president-designate of the commission. - (it) mr alavanos, after your speech this morning, i had a long talk with mr kinnock about the problem of the earthquake. he is in the process of organizing and coordinating the report on this matter, so i have not mentioned it now, but i have acted in the meantime. mr kinnock told me that he would be ready to provide an organic response on this on thursday.
- ladies and gentlemen, if there are no further comments, the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 4.45 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m. pending the next debate)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would first like to join with the words of mr wynn on the timeliness of this debate. it is a debate between the council and parliament. i am not aware that the council is currently involved in the investiture procedures. i regret that, because i would have been happy to invest mrs siimes. but that's not our job. tomorrow we shall have to invest the commission which has intervened. i am also pleased that we have the opportunity to have this last contact with mr liikanen in his present capacity and before the metamorphosis which will lead him to another post the day after tomorrow. i would like to take this opportunity to say that, although we have had some rather severe exchanges, we have always appreciated the talent, the seriousness and the very open and friendly nature of the cooperation we have had with mr liikanen. on the substance, mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we were not impressed by the commission's preliminary draft budget and that we are disappointed by the council's draft budget. we were not attracted by this preliminary draft because it came at a time when the commission could not really rely on the financial perspective. this gave a rather unreal character to its exercise, because, in particular, it could not, and rightly so, take account of the kosovo tragedy and its financial consequences, and finally because, for reasons which do not seem very satisfactory to us, it refused to respond to the concerns expressed by parliament in the field of administrative reform. we had asked in our guidelines for a gradual dismantling of the bat. we had asked in our budgetary guidelines for a precise assessment of staffing needs and of the capacity for action that it considered it had with the existing staff. in both these respects, we have not found in you much zeal. but we were disappointed, i will not hide it from you, madam president, by the council's budget. disappointed with category 1. we still do not understand why, in the name of what, you are making massive linear cuts in compulsory expenditure. the argument put forward by some delegations, that this is due to monetary developments, seems to us, i remind you, to be contrary to the very precise provisions of the financial regulation. we also do not understand why, in category 2, although there may be a number of technical justifications, you have reduced the payment appropriations. in category 3, we can see that while you have served the major programmes correctly, that is to say all that has been adopted in codecision, on the other hand, everything that directly and specifically concerns parliament has been sacrificed by you. you defend what is ours, you defend what is both of ours, you despise what is ours alone. on category 4, you know the extent of the problem. you are trying to put into this category a whole bunch of things that you cannot put into it: the fisheries agreement on morocco, and especially the massive funds, estimated at 500 million, on kosovo, and this without raising the category. the result is that what you are proposing is, as the french say, to strip james to dress paul, to sacrifice the priorities defined by the legislative and budgetary authorities of yesterday in favour of the priorities of tomorrow. we do not consider that to be good policy. finally, in category 5, we see a great reluctance to tackle the pension problem. this seems serious to us. and we would like to see a little more solidarity from the council in support of the necessary transformation of the commission's administrative structures. i think that, generally speaking, the reproach we make to your draft budget is that it simultaneously insults the past, the present and the future. in the past, for the reasons i have just given. the moment you decide that tomorrow's priorities must be financed by sacrifices on priorities already established, you are making an operation which is not eligible. we know, and you have very rightly said so, that the commission will have increased responsibilities in the field of foreign policy. you have to take them on. the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the appropriations for payments are used. we now know that the commission has already stopped paying. and finally, as regards the future, you ignore, or treat lightly, the major issues that lie ahead of us in the field of administrative reform and pensions. then we shall have a constructive dialogue, madam president. i have confidence in your ability to cooperate. but you should know, we're gonna have a tough conversation. we will not accept that the interinstitutional agreement we have signed and ratified is a trap. cooperation, yes, but not the sacrifice of the fundamental priorities of the european union. we will be able to ask you for a revision of the financial perspective where necessary. (applause) i would like to thank
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your speeches and i shall confine myself to commenting on one, but one of importance, namely category 4, and more precisely on kosovo. firstly, as i said in my speech, i believe that the question of financing kosovo's needs will certainly be one of the most important factors in the autumn budgetary procedure. the council's position in creating a 'kosovo' provision was to make it a priority. it is true that some of the appropriations in category 4 have been abolished, but the council's abolishments mean a reduction in relation to the commission's draft and not in relation to 1999. i think that most of the appropriations in category 4 have increased compared with the current year and, on the other hand, there are some items in category 4 which are not affected by the cuts at all. in the framework of these rules, the council has considered kosovo as a top priority. as regards the reference by mr wynn and mr bourlanges to the interinstitutional agreement and other means of financing, i note that the council's view is that it is possible to finance the 'kosovo' provision in full by means of a readjustment, that is to say by means of a transfer of appropriations, but the council respects the interinstitutional agreement and all its points. i have already stated on several occasions that we must wait for more precise estimates of the needs for the reconstruction of kosovo. the results of these estimates so far have been encouraging in that aid needs have decreased rather than increased. the interinstitutional agreement states that before going beyond the financing framework, other ways of arranging financing must be clarified, and that is what the council has done, according to its own conception. on the basis of the information available at present, we assume that this will be sufficient, but we are of course prepared to resume negotiations if the information improves, because, as we all know, the acceptance of the budget presupposes that the two budgetary authorities reach a mutual agreement. as i said at the beginning, good cooperation, trust and the desire to find common solutions are the means by which we can bring this process to a successful conclusion, namely the adoption of the 2000 budget.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the council will have to consider the possibility of involving the international monetary fund. in general, when it comes to assistance, it would be good if all parties who are in any way concerned by money movements were gathered around the same table.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have the sad duty to inform you of the accidental death of the greek deputy foreign minister, yannos kranidiotis, and of five other people who were with him, including his 23-year-old son. that minister was on a mission. he was on his way to bucharest with 12 other people when his plane lost altitude; it fell from 25,000 feet to 3,000 feet without crashing, and finally landed at bucharest airport. some of you will remember that yannos kranidiotis was a member of the european parliament from january 1995 to february 1997, when he was appointed minister in the greek government, and you will remember that he was a member of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets in our parliament, and vice-chairman of the joint delegation of the european union and cyprus. many of us remember our late colleague. i would say that he was very much appreciated for his human qualities and his competence in the field of european affairs. i suggest that we observe a minute's silence in his memory. (the house adopted the resolution)
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations?
- i think, baron crespo, that the rules of procedure require you to make your statement now, even if mr galeote isn't here. he will be able to read it in the minutes.
- we now return to the minutes, if you will. are there any observations?
- madam president, i just want to say that in the vote on the interpretation of the rules of procedure i am mentioned as having voted against, whereas i voted for. actually, i was late and i voted from mr pasqua's seat. i guess that's why the machine resisted my intent. (laughter) but i reported it right after.
- mr bourlanges, the correction is already in the minutes: 'mr bourlanges indicated that he wanted to vote in favour'. but you just gave your cause even greater publicity.
- very well, mrs. palacio, we'll take note of that.
- we appreciate the compliment, mr posselt.
- thank you, mr rack. i see mrs. stenzel agrees with you. we'll make it right. (the minutes were approved)
- mr. sichrovsky, i think you could put this proposal in writing, as per the rules, and we'll see how best to follow it up. documents received: see minutes
- the next item is the statements by the president-in-office of the council - i welcome the president-in-office of the council, mrs halonen - and by the commission on the preparatory work for the european council meeting in tampere on 15 and 16 october.
- madam president, i believe, as did the previous speakers, that the creation of a european judicial area, on the one hand, and the introduction of general rules for the control of immigration, on the other, will not solve the problems of crossborder crime or immigration. this is just one more deception that is being played on european public opinion to make them believe that europe is capable of solving their problems. i would like to tell you, a little in advance, about the next intergovernmental conference; the conference is already under way, but the precise terms are not yet known. the european elections have marked a very deep disaffection of the various populations of europe towards the european union. the questions raised by public opinion can be summarised as follows: how does europe add value and improve our decision-making systems? has europe brought us greater economic growth, better everyday life or the hope of joining a great adventure? the answer given in many countries, starting with the netherlands - which i was a little surprised to hear, because it was in the netherlands that the maastricht and amsterdam treaties were signed - was negative. more and more people are beginning to doubt the values of forced integration and the value of treaties which mr barnier, who has gone from gaullism to centrism, would like to see constitutionalised. but, mr bourlanges, you were a gaullist thirty years ago and today you are the opposite of a gaullist, because you are a centrist. in other words, the aim of the next igc should not be to strengthen this institutional process but, on the contrary, to lighten it, i.e. to limit the union's powers by returning to a common market that respects the environment and public health. in fact, mr lamy, the commissioner responsible, described the construction of europe as a "phenomenon without historical determinism, a human and fragile creation". he had doubted that there was really a future ...... (the president withdrew the floor)
- i would like to welcome, on behalf of our european parliament, the presence in the official gallery of the finnish parliament's committee on legal affairs, led by its chairman, mr henrik lax. (applause) we are very pleased to welcome this delegation. we hope that our meetings will be useful and fruitful, and this visit is part of the framework of the increasingly close relations we want between our european parliament and the national parliaments. i want to extend a very warm welcome to you. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the holding of a european council partly devoted to the area of freedom, security and justice, which shows that the european institutions and the states are aware of the importance of the issues essential to europe's future. these issues are important for all citizens living in this area, as they affect their individual and collective freedoms. tampere will also provide policy guidance on sensitive issues, such as immigration policies, which require a new look at north-south relations, such as freedom of movement, which requires a real harmonisation of visa policies in europe, such as the right to asylum and the right to health for all refugees. other important issues are integration policies, which also affect the cultural rights of minorities, the right to live together in dignity and the political rights for all citizens residing in europe. all these rights must, of course, be included in the charter of fundamental rights, a charter which must be addressed to all those men and women who live in europe and enrich it. it is therefore necessary to strengthen democratic control over the choices we are going to make, because there are still too many shadow areas such as europol. this is why the european parliament, which is the direct representative of the people, must be closely associated with meetings such as tampere. the european council's choices must be transparent, in line with human rights and the wishes of the european parliament.
- madam president, the european council in cologne had the ill-fated idea, without any national parliament to my knowledge having ever asked it to do so, of launching the preparation of a charter of fundamental rights of the european union. this idea, in its apparently restrained form, seems to us both unnecessary and dangerous. this is unnecessary, because, according to the council's conclusions, it should be nothing more than a stylistic exercise combining the rights already in force in a single document. these are rights that already exist and are found in various documents: treaties, the european social charter, the european convention on human rights and above all, of course, national constitutions. moreover, these rights, as far as citizens are concerned, are already well protected by the legal systems in force. the proposed exercise therefore appears to be pointless. it is no less dangerous, because the federalist lobbies will take advantage of the cologne conclusions to try to take the defence of citizens' rights out of national constitutions and to cover them with a higher text, a so-called european constitution. mr barnier also emphasised, during his hearing last week, that the process of preparing the charter should be linked to the process of constitutionalising the treaties. clearly, the cologne council has set in motion a machine that is going to lose control. i believe that it is better to leave the rights of citizens to the national constitutions and their protection to the national parliaments, which have been perfecting them for centuries. the union would do better to devote itself to the first urgent task of the moment: the drawing up of a charter of the rights of nations.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the tampere european council - and this was mentioned here as an extraordinary meeting - is to define the political guidelines and priorities for the establishment of the areas of freedom, security and justice. the free movement of persons within the union is therefore a fundamental objective of this european construction. this free movement must above all apply equally to all, and i am thinking in particular of the difficulties experienced by many foreign residents, who are too often denied the right to family reunification. i am convinced that the fundamental objective of this european union is to enable the integration of immigrants. madam president, i withdrew my speech at the opening of the partsession because the tribute mrs fontaine paid to the two young guineans who had died, yaguine and fodé, was full of emotion. it was with astonishing lucidity that these two teenagers had sent us a letter in which they recalled the enormous difficulties of being a child of the third world today. my name is fodé and i come from this uninherited part of the planet. but i have had the wonderful fortune of being adopted by a french family, of going to school and of sitting here in this house with you. this vocation of welcoming with dignity must continue, because believe me, no woman, no man leaves his family, his village, his country without an urgent need to feed his family. so let us stop separating mothers from their children, withdrawing residence permits from workers who have lost their jobs and undermining the right to asylum. in short, let us get immigrants out of the administrative predicament and offer them a permanent residence permit which allows them to stay as they wish in a country they come to precisely because it was the european countries that colonized it before. finally, our europe must ban all forms of discrimination in employment, housing and access to leisure and remind all those who deny the existence of the gas chambers and who think that races are unequal that racism is not an opinion but a crime. (applause) i would like to thank
- it is with great pleasure that we welcome the bureau of the delegation of the turkish grand national assembly to the joint parliamentary committee eu/turkey, chaired by professor kursat eser. i ask you to applaud them, especially as the news of another major earthquake in north-west turkey on monday, just a few weeks after the tragic events that struck the same region, has plunged us into great distress. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deepest sympathy to the turkish grand national assembly and the people of turkey for the heavy losses they have suffered as a result of this natural disaster. in a spirit of solidarity, i note with satisfaction that the council and the commission have taken the necessary steps to ensure the support of the european union to the turkish authorities and to cooperate with them in order to alleviate the suffering of their people. finally, i would like to express the hope that the debate you will have today and tomorrow with the bureau of the european parliament's delegation will bear fruit and that the dialogue between our two parliaments will soon be continued in the framework of the joint parliamentary delegation. (applause) i would like to thank
- dear colleague, we understand your emotion at the news of the death of your deputy foreign minister. the president had the opportunity to associate parliament with your sorrow and that of your people.
- i have received two motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure.
- the next item is the council statement on the situation in east timor. i would remind you that the debate will take place this afternoon after the debate on the report by mrs dührkop dührkop and mr fabra vallés.
- thank you, mr pannella. it's very kind of you to allow romano prodi time to join us. i hope he's not stuck in an elevator, in which case the circumstance would obviously be quite mitigating. (parliament adopted the resolution)
commission - (it) madam president, i apologize for the delay, which i can explain. as is often the case in the european institutions, the italian text of the speech was lost in the hyperspace between brussels and strasbourg. i was expecting it, since i have only the foreign-language text with me, which i used as a note. i have been here for nine hours but i see that i will be forced to read this speech which i will be giving in italian, translating it from a foreign language. i apologize in advance if the translation is not perfect at times. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a crucial moment in what i believe has been a great exercise in democracy. i have appeared before you many times in the last few days and have spoken to you about the political ideas of my programme and the nature of our future relations. you've questioned the commissioners, both in writing and orally. we are committed to transparency, efficiency, accountability, absolutely and precisely, for every action we take. these principles of transparency, accountability and efficiency are contained in the resolution which has just been adopted. the fundamental point of your resolution concerns the commitments i made to the conference of presidents last week; and this morning, on this solemn occasion, i assure you of my deep and total commitment to these five points. these points constitute the basis for a new beginning in relations between our two institutions, a new culture of openness and, above all, of mutual cooperation. the fundamental element of these questions concerns the problem of individual responsibility of commissioners. i have already stated my position on this matter clearly and honestly. the discussions we have had together in the last few days, in my view, offer the opportunity to deal with any problems that may arise in this area. let us be clear: our firm commitment to collegiality - a fundamental aspect of the role of this commission - will in no way become a screen behind which individual responsibilities are concealed, the problems of responsibility which each of us must assume in politics, which we must assume before this parliament and before the european world as a whole. these principles are, in my view, essential to a strong commission. and even if a strong commission sometimes creates disagreements with parliament - we will often say 'no' - i think, for you and for me, that it is much more useful to have a strong partner than a weak one. let us return to the content of this resolution. i fully agree that the organization of our relations is a fundamental element of the european construction, but it is not the only element. we must appeal to the citizens in this respect and this is a fundamental challenge for all the institutions. therefore, one of my most important tasks is to present my political guidelines for the five-year term in january and we must and will have to give a very high political profile to this january consultation. i said yesterday - and i say again - that i am strongly committed to helping sustainable development meet all environmental challenges. the first and most important of these challenges is, in my view, to regain, as soon as possible, the confidence of the public in the safety of the food we eat and in the protection of the health of all. (applause) i would like to thank i recognize that the preparation of the next intergovernmental conference in front of the european parliament is of fundamental importance. i renew my commitment to you to have a strong and decisive conference. i also want to be clear, because there must be no ambiguity about the nature of the report i have given to mr dehaene and mr von weizsäcker and lord simon. it is not a report from the commission that you will receive, and you and i will receive it at the same time. in the light of the report we will receive together, i understand that we will have to organise a discussion through the european parliament and the commission which prepares a strong intergovernmental conference in preparation for the helsinki summit. the dialogue that has been opened up between us is therefore very important in this respect. you also asked me for an interinstitutional agreement as the basis for a code of conduct to govern our relations and our dealings. i fully agree that we will have to sit down, look at it and organise the details in practice. i also accept the commitments you have asked me to make on the five points in the preamble to your resolution. of course, these must be analysed in detail in the future code of conduct. i would remind you, however, that as president of the commission i will exercise my responsibilities to the full. two points of your intervention should be somewhat moderate. firstly, you are asking that in the event of a serious criminal charge, a member of the commission be suspended from office. i have no power of decision in this matter but, as i have said before, if such accusations were formally made against members of the commission, i would feel obliged to examine the consequences with the utmost rigor, and i can imagine that there are circumstances in which a member of the commission would want to be suspended from office pending judgment. i can also imagine situations in which a possible resignation would have to be considered, but that decision depends on the political assessment of the member of the commission in question and, ultimately, of me as president. it is therefore appropriate, from this point of view, to respect the fundamental principles of law and therefore the presumption of innocence. fundamental freedoms are for everyone, but i can assure you that i will be very strict in this matter. let me make one final comment on this. on the crucial element of accountability, i will never accept that a member of the commission deliberately misleads parliament or lies to parliament. our relationships must be based on mutual trust. secondly, you want to express your views on the codes of conduct for commissioners and high-level appointments which are to be applied by the new commission. as president, i must say that these regulations must be applied on the first working day of the new commission. i do not want there to be any ambiguity about the immediate commitment to the reform process that is signalled within the commission by these codes of conduct. however, this does not mean that these codes are written on stone. you have received them and you can make your comments, which we will take into account: these codes are not immutable. several of the desired points included in the new framework agreement refer to transparency. i told you that the new commission would be open to your suggestions. it has committed itself to attend parliamentary committee meetings and plenary sessions to address all important political issues. it has also made a firm commitment to study, within the limits of its possibilities, how it might be possible to improve the involvement of parliament in all areas. i note the importance you attach to international agreements. however, you must recognize that our commitment to consult you will have to be implemented in a manner consistent with the proper conduct of the negotiations. i can assure you, within these limits, of my commitment to ensure that these chapters are also opened. you also mention foreign and security policy and the third pillar. the commission will work with you to consider how best to ensure that information reaches you quickly. i am also prepared to announce the important decisions taken by the commission directly in plenary when it is necessary, when you consider it appropriate. we must examine how this information can be organised on a weekly basis, outside parliament's sessions, on your side and ours. it is important for you to have the documents: this is actually a problem of transmission - but it is not the most important - because it is also a matter, as you say, of establishing precise rules in the event that access is restricted. i agree that we will have to establish specific procedures for the transmission of sensitive documents, concerning fraud, to the chairman of the committee on budgetary control. i have to file a notice of objection regarding internal documents relating to fraud. we have been very keen to see olaf as an independent institution. i cannot therefore make any commitments as regards their documents because olaf must be independent. i think they will certainly have an obligation to be transparent, but we will have to ask olaf to do so, otherwise i would be contradicting my conception of this institution. i can confirm that it is fundamental, especially in a public administration, that staff have a duty to report any alleged fraud, embezzlement or irregularity. equally important, public servants must be able to fulfil this duty through a coherent system that firmly guarantees their rights and the rights of those who are accused. a new independent olaf has the duty to define each case. i also accept that the duties of officials in this area and the rules of protection should be laid down in formal regulations. mr kinnock has already made a commitment to you on this. i was greatly encouraged by our cooperation and the establishment of the new commission. i see that we are making steady progress towards a good political atmosphere of mutual understanding with a view to laying the foundations for close cooperation. as a sign of our goodwill, we will work together in an effective and constructive way. i have prepared this answer by really trying to get into the operational content of what you have asked. i know that today's vote is not only about the aspects of our work together, but also about what we must achieve together for europe. we have made a commitment and i guarantee you that this commitment will follow three main directions, and this until the end, directions that we all share. we are committed to a new configuration of the institutions of europe and we are making firm preparations for this intergovernmental conference, which is of fundamental importance for our future. this intergovernmental conference is of fundamental importance because we have prepared together for a second objective, an objective which, in one way or another, will really change all our policies: enlargement. once the enlargement process is complete, we will go from 362 million people to almost half a billion. we will have to expand to countries with fundamentally different histories, customs and income levels. this choice is aimed at safeguarding the pillars of our europe, namely peace and freedom, and it is impossible to guarantee these pillars if enlargement is not carried out in the most constructive, open and strongest possible way. finally, we have committed ourselves to a third objective. we are committed to helping the economic recovery that is beginning and to making sure that it serves all citizens: it must serve employment, social justice in pursuit of reform but also to preserve the great foundations of the social protection system created by europe, a system that has had so many problems in recent years of reform and which we refuse to see abandoned, leaving citizens without protection. these are the three major commitments we have made together. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the vote that is to follow will enable us, and you, to carry out together this task which, without rhetoric, is truly a great historical task, an institutional innovation never before seen in the world. therefore, to face together these new tasks which represent a great change from the past, we must proceed with great cohesion, the cohesion which must exist between parliament and the executive in all modern democracies. the future of our europe is based on our dialectic but also on our spirit of cooperation.
- i thank the president of the commission, mr prodi, and as we agreed, each group chairman will speak for three minutes.
- madam president, i explained in yesterday's debate why my group cannot trust the prodi commission. while stressing the interesting "movement" in relations between this institution and parliament, and our willingness to work towards the success of the announced administrative reform, i expressed the conviction that, in order to meet the pressing expectations of our fellow citizens, it would have been necessary to take the initiative of significant changes affecting not only the functioning of the commission, but also its political orientations themselves. unfortunately, i did not hear anything of the kind in the various hearings of the commissioners-designate, or in the words of mr prodi himself. at a time when the commission is just emerging from the most serious crisis in its history and the european union as a whole has much to reflect on following the unprecedented alarm signal that millions of voters have just sent it, the time was ripe for some powerful acts that could open up new perspectives, acts that could give rise to renewed hope. experience has shown that the european union cannot be built simply by the market and by directives. it is primarily formed through living relationships between people who cooperate in the realization of projects that motivate and bring them together. i am convinced that europe will regain its noble letters in public opinion and the sympathy of many peoples of the world by clearly affirming its own values and its own project in the face of the burgeoning neoliberal movement. it is this ambition, madam president, which we believe is lacking today. that is why my group cannot trust the commission.
mr president, the french delegation of my group, like the danish delegation, have already explained in the main debate why they cannot support a commission which considers itself the government of europe, even though the citizens have never explicitly approved of such a status. the european parliament, for its part, is delighted to play the game, since the text put to the vote is entitled 'draft decision on the election of the commission designated'. but this is not an election either at the level of our parliament, where the legal issue is the approval of the appointment of commissioners, or at the level of voters who, in france at least, and probably in many other countries, have never heard of mr prodi. but i would also like to take this opportunity to refer to the parallel resolution which brings together a number of commitments made by the prodi commission in often technical but important areas, relating to the code of conduct, ethics and transparency. most of them can only be approved, particularly as regards the smooth flow of information. i hope that this will make parliament better informed about the millennium round negotiations than it was about the uruguay round, for example, although europe has so far been governed by powerful forces which want the most absolute free trade and prefer to act in secret. unfortunately, this resolution is tainted by some aberrant provisions, for example, the one which provides, i quote, 'that the prodi commission commits itself to putting on the agenda of the intergovernmental conference, in addition to the three points already decided, an important programme of institutional reforms'. of course, the commission has no power, until further notice, to decide the agenda of the next igc itself. this phrase has at least the merit of showing that the european parliament and the commission will support each other in increasing their respective powers and trampling on the decisions of the council. but really, in this case as in that of the charter of fundamental rights, the council's folly prevents us from feeling sorry for it. in any case, we shall vote against the resolution containing this provision.
- mr president, one question before i explain my vote. i'd like to know what mrs. schreyer's official title is. she's approved, i voted for her, but she's not appointed yet, it's absurd. but i'm very glad that she's listening to what i'm going to say. (interruption by the president: there is a transitional day, mr bourlanges.) i think that all this, and that is the point of my explanation of vote, is absurd. i voted four times in favour of the commission because i have confidence in mr prodi and his team. in this explanation of vote i wanted to draw attention to the fact that this parliament has not behaved properly from a legal point of view. article 214 is formal: it provides for a precise sequence of procedures and a distinction between the moment when the president is appointed and the moment when the college is approved. this is intended to protect the political authority of the president. in this case, by the votes we cast, we approved the commission each time before actually appointing the president. in the first vote we approved the appointment of mr prodi, whereas the act of 19 july had already appointed the commissioners envisaged. we then proceeded with the third and fourth votes, building on the decision of 19 july, which was taken earlier. i think that this parliament has not grown up in this matter. we should have been more scrupulous than the council in respecting the very strict provisions of article 214.
in writing. - like my colleagues in the party of european socialists, who are particularly attentive and diligent in the hearings of the commissioners-designate, i welcome this procedure, which is rich in information on the personality and intentions of those who will be our privileged interlocutors. this 'examination' of the future executive before the elected representatives of the european citizens is an important step in the democratization of the european institutions, which the socialists have made their workhorse. the half-hearted performances of some of the candidates, who seem to always be reluctant to mention social europe or employment, or even the very unconvincing audition of mrs palacio, cannot hide an overall satisfactory impression. unlike the european right, which has obviously tried to hide its divisions by the virulence of its attacks, sometimes personal and insulting, against certain commissioners, i intend to favour the path of consultation and collaboration with the future commission. in my view, the main thing is to find a credible interlocutor, to put an end to an endless transition situation and to enable the european executive to resume its difficult task and finally to move forward, in close consultation with the european parliamentarians, on the decisive issues affecting europe and its citizens. it is with this spirit that i am voting in favour of the investiture of the new commission, without, however, signing a blank cheque. i want to give myself the opportunity to judge the quality of the work done on "pieces".
in writing. - i personally listened to all the speeches by president romano prodi and attended all six hearings of the commissioner-designate. the first conclusion i draw from this is that we have a strong team, with commissioners, the vast majority of whom are competent in their fields. the second conclusion is that the ideology conveyed by this team and many of its proposals are far from my ideas on the construction and management of europe, with a very worrying domination of liberalism over social and citizenship. that is why, if i am voting this afternoon, with no emotion, for the investiture of this commission, wishing it good courage and good luck, i shall be paying particular attention in a few weeks' time to the programme which will be announced for the year 2000 and the legislature. my vote on this occasion and my subsequent votes will depend on the extent to which the proposals which will be put to us correspond to those on the basis of which i was elected on 13 june. for me, more than ever, the challenges for the next five years are four: a democratic, transparent and effective political europe; 2 - a strong and fair social europe which defends the most vulnerable; 3 - a citizens' europe where every citizen feels fully european in his or her daily life; 4 - a europe that knows how to enlarge resolutely and without laxity to guarantee peace.
in writing. - the record level of abstention in the european elections in june, especially in the popular quarters, showed that europe is still far from its citizens. it is not sufficiently transparent in its operation. it is too much about the concerns of the market and big business and not enough about the concerns of the population, especially those who suffer from precariousness, unemployment and poverty. the hearing of commissioners-designate provided an initial response on reforming the way the commission operates and strengthening links with parliament. but it is on the basis of the policies pursued that europe is expected and that citizens' trust must be regained. what are the prospects for a social europe? what are the safeguards against economic forces increasingly dominated by the financial sphere? what new employment policy? what are the major works of collective interest to prepare for the future and support growth? what europe of the environment and what concept of sustainable development? and what course of action should be taken in the wto negotiations to defend the originality of the european social model and promote a new type of cooperation between the countries of the north and the south? on these questions, president prodi's statement does not provide the answers expected. the guidelines presented are far removed from the priorities which were at the heart of the campaign of the socialists, in france but also in many other countries. it is not the personality, the integrity and the competence of the commissioners-designate that are in question. from this point of view, personal attacks, without serious foundation, by a part of the right and the far right against a socialist leader are not acceptable. the vote of no confidence they are calling for must be rejected. i will vote for the nomination. but this acceptance of the composition of the commission, which must be able to get to work, does not amount to a vote of confidence in a political action programme which has yet to be presented and debated with parliament at the earliest opportunity and which will have to take into account the aspirations and expectations of the citizens of europe.
in writing. - i would like to express my great satisfaction at having been able to participate in the great democratic moment we have just experienced, which has no parallel in the european political landscape. the european institutions, particularly the european commission and the european parliament, are coming out of the hearings of the commissioners-designate with a bang, and the european citizens who have followed them (through the press) will, i hope, find reasons to take a greater interest in european construction. for these reasons, and in view of the generally recognised competence of commissioners and the willingness of most of them to work closely with parliament, i voted to invest the european commission. i did so all the more readily because the procedure chosen for these hearings was a reminder of the commission's commitment to present, before the end of 1999, a set of proposals designed to finally give concrete substance to article 299 (2) of the treaty of amsterdam, which enshrines the specific nature of the outermost regions and establishes the right to special derogating provisions for them to enable them to cope with their structural difficulties. on the other hand, with regard to the octs associated with the european union, commissioner nielson recognised the need to present as soon as possible a set of proposals to give these countries a status adapted to their current situation, with a view to the next association convention, with the consequence in particular of renewing the financial instrument for their development. on these two subjects, to which i am particularly sensitive, the comments of the commissioners responsible seemed to me to be a good omen for future cooperation between the commission and parliament.
in writing. - the vote on ratification of the commission is not a vote of approval of its programme, since the european parliament will be consulted at the end of the year. the question now is whether the commissioners-designate are capable of performing their duties with competence and seriousness. nothing we have heard in the commissioners' hearing is likely to justify, at this stage, a veto on this or that. let's say they can benefit from a positive a priori. however, as soon as he was presented to the european parliament, romano prodi made statements that can only disappoint and worry those who expect the european union to give swift, bold answers to reorient europe to the service of the people and the people and not to finance and money, so that europe can assert itself as an alternative to liberal globalisation. mr prodi's silence on the need to defend the european social model, his distressing sobriety, his frequent omissions on a european employment policy and his cautious generalities on institutional change create more than reservations. that is why i voted against mr prodi's appointment. in the meantime, and pending a necessary reorientation of the commission's policies and a debate on future action, today's positive vote must be interpreted as a choice not to multiply the crises and the blockages in our institutions, as a refusal to seek individual scapegoats where europe's political and civilization orientation is at stake. this vote is, in a way, administrative. i am therefore not voting no confidence in the commissioners-designate. it is also not a vote of confidence. i expect the new commission to win this trust. it must know that many of us will not hesitate to punish it if its action proves as disappointing as its present political presentation.
in writing. - mr prodi spoke of the commission as a real government. mr poettering, on behalf of the epp, welcomed this drift. we, for our part, condemn it resolutely. what is mr prodi asking for? more and more powers, more and more areas of competence for the commission, that is to say, more and more centralisation and more and more regulation. mr prodi called for the drift to be continued and extended, which had led to the increase in irregularities and fraud denounced by the committee of wise men and which had led to the resignation of the santer commission. far from proposing a correction of the institutional drift, far from refocusing the commission on the limited tasks assigned to it by the treaties and on the rigorous management with which it should carry them out, mr prodi firmly subscribes to the usual view of perpetually exceeding the powers enshrined in the treaties for the benefit of the commission. the commission is proposing to increase the drift. this is the first reason why we refuse to vote for a commission which sets its objectives in defiance of the treaties. the second reason for our negative vote is a number of worrying statements made by the commissioners-designate at the hearings before the european parliament. what mr prodi and a few others have complacently presented as a model democratic exercise (mr prodi has even just spoken of "an imposing exercise of democracy") was in reality a vast session of mutual encouragement to the federalist bidding. a number of candidate commissioners - and the credit for this is undoubtedly due to commissioner-designate barnier - have happily sat on the treaties to advocate, among others, generalised co-decision (including mr fischler), the drawing up of a european constitution to replace those of our member states, and the substitution of national sovereignty by a 'european sovereignty'. it's like a dream. these calls to break away from the institutional balance decided by our governments, these commitments to permanent institutional instability, in favour of european supranational bodies and to the detriment of national democracies, are a cause for serious concern. it is not healthy for democracy that these hearings have been diverted into genuine political blackmail operations, with the commission and parliament pledging to support each other in their unbridled lust for power, by subverting the frameworks set by the national governments elected by our peoples. we will not condone such deviations.
- doc. a5-0009/99 by mrs dührkop dührkop and mr fabra vallés, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft supplementary and amending budgets nos 1, 3 and 4 to the budget of the european communities for the financial year 1999 (c5-0021/1999, c5-0074/1999 and c5-00130/1999).
- thank you very much, mr fabra. thank you for your opening remarks. in fact, after 14 years as a member of the committee on budgets, this is the first time i have been following this debate on budgets as chairman. but this is my second term in this house.
- the surprise of the chairman of the committee on budgets is, i think, the surprise of all. i hope the council officials present will take note of this and forward it to the appropriate minister.
- mr alavanos, i apologize for the fact that the text is not available in all the languages. you are aware that the committee on budgets discussed this report last night, but i can guarantee that you will have all the versions before the vote. i'm sorry that's not the case now.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. before we continue with the agenda, i would like to point out that mr liikanen is here today for the last time as commissioner for budgets. i hope he will still be with us, but he will have new responsibilities. given that we have had our quarrels throughout these five years, but also a great collaboration, i would like to say goodbye and wish you success in your new assignment. mr liikanen, to the next session! (applause) i would like to thank
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the council statement on the situation in east timor.
mr president, we now know that what is happening in east timor is both a crime and a tragedy. we rehearsed it here. a crime, because the indonesian colonial occupation has lasted for 24 years. the constant violation of human rights, the terror against a peaceful, unfortunate and unarmed people has become commonplace, but it has been there for 24 years, i have seen it with my own eyes. the un organised a referendum: 98% participation, more than 78% for independence. it was a democratic vote, absolutely transparent. but far from finding peace, the timorese people are now living through a real tragedy. we are witnessing an aggression against east timorese sovereignty, characterized by a state of siege, indonesia. in international law, from the moment the timorese people have chosen independence, they are active sovereigns in their territory. it becomes a sovereign state as soon as it has the representative institutions it has chosen. there is only one sovereign today in east timor, and that is the people of east timor. the facts of this violation are well known: the deportation of more than 80,000 people to west timor, where they are being parked, starved, beaten and held hostage by the indonesian army. mass terror everywhere else. the perpetrators are identified: the militias, the army and the indonesian civil authorities. we are told that mr habibie's government is being held prisoner by the army in jakarta, that the general staff no longer controls the troops in east timor, that militias are pouring in from all sides. but then, i ask you, my friends, who is responsible? if it is no longer the civilian government, we must denounce a coup d'etat in indonesia. if it is not the army, we must denounce the disappearance of any representative institution in this country. the steps to be taken are obvious. the un must intervene under chapter 7. the un must define the composition of the intervention force. the indonesian army must withdraw from east timor. the militias must be disarmed. and the indonesian state must be held clearly responsible for its current procrastination. an international commission on the violence in east timor must be set up and the perpetrators brought before the international criminal court. all trade with indonesia must be conditional on the final restoration of peace in timor. the timorese people must be given the means to establish an independent state and to have that state recognized. it is not a question, mr president, of the right to interfere in this tragedy. it is rather a question of respect for international law.
- i am aware that this is a very sensitive debate, but i would appreciate it if you would try not to exceed the time allotted to you.
- mr president, we still do not know how the measures adopted by the security council will be implemented, but we already know that the aid will arrive too late to save many lives. for one thing, the irreparable is done. the disaster was foretold. the timorese resistance had raised an alarm call, demanding that the united nations itself ensure the security of the self-determination vote. there was a crime of non-assistance to people in danger. east timorese are paying a heavy price for past compromises. the indonesian army, which is the main culprit of the current massacres, was set up, trained, equipped by the great western powers in 1965 to massacre the indonesian population itself, in order to eradicate a communist party whose influence was bothering them. today, there is universal indignation, but there is also widespread hypocrisy. who is to believe that the united states, but also france, which has established military cooperation with jakarta, did not have the means of exerting sufficient pressure to stop the arm of the murderers? when the bombings of iraq and the former yugoslavia took place, the great powers spoke to us about human rights. it is simply a case of some people putting their money first in defending human rights.
neil, the board. - mr president, with your permission, and at the request of the house, i would like to make a statement from the commission on kosovo. i naturally appreciate the work and the speech of mrs pack, particularly the energy and clarity with which she develops a convincing argument. i shall be more specific about his report at the end of this morning's debate. the commission welcomes the fact that various international civil and military administrations are now in place and have undertaken the very difficult task of rebuilding kosovo. it called on all parties to fully respect security council resolution 1244 and the various military agreements and commitments and hoped that the deployment of kfor and unmik could be completed in a timely manner. the commission supports the creation of a democratic and multiethnic kosovo and deeply regrets the continuation of ethnic violence. it strongly condemns the violence, irrespective of the ethnic group responsible, and calls for every effort to be made to ensure the reconciliation and cooperation which are essential for stability and security in the whole region. the assembly is certainly curious to know what role the commission is playing in the massive efforts to restore infrastructure and civil society in kosovo. the commission's role is broadly twofold: it is engaged in the extensive reconstruction programme and it collaborates with other international donors in unmik's coordination initiatives. the first part will no doubt be the subject of much discussion, particularly in the debate on mrs pack's report, and i shall therefore limit myself at this stage to a few of the main points. firstly, an overall budget of eur 137 million is foreseen for 1999 under the obnova programme; 46 million has already been committed and actions are under way. however, the commission is counting on the active support of this parliament - support which i have no doubt about - to obtain both the remaining eur 92 million for 1999 and the additional funds we will need in the coming years. as i speak, we estimate future needs at some 500 million euros for the year 2000 and 500 to 700 million euros for 2001 and 2002. secondly, it is clear that efficiency is of the utmost importance. the commission therefore proposes the creation of a reconstruction agency in kosovo to ensure the effective implementation of the community reconstruction programme. thirdly, it is clear that the creation of the agency needs to be well prepared and a working group has been set up precisely for this purpose. it has programmed and is in charge of implementing the first tranche of €46 million for reconstruction aid. the main concerns are mine clearance, customs and procurement of supplies for the rehabilitation of housing and public buildings, especially the hospital in mitrovica. the subsequent tranches will be used mainly to prepare the roads for winter, to make connections between towns, for which we are asking the member states to support, and then to finance public services, public buildings, economic reconstruction and institutional development. the second part of the commission's role goes beyond the implementation of community aid and extends to the international effort in favour of kosovo, which involves a whole range of activities. i will give you some examples. first, the commission, together with the other participants in the reconstruction effort and the main international financial institutions, is assessing the damage and needs. in fact, the commission is the sole methodological assessor of physical damage at the provincial level. the first results of this exercise, concerning damage to housing and local infrastructure, were published at the conference organised on the initiative of the commission and the world bank donors last july. a more comprehensive report, focusing on major infrastructures, will be published later this year. secondly, the commission shares with the world bank the task of mobilising donors and we obtained, during this conference in july, pledges for more than 2 billion euros. a second donor conference is scheduled for next month. thirdly, the assembly is aware that the european union has a special responsibility for reconstruction within the framework of the un civilian administration, unmik. the corresponding initiatives are being taken under the so-called fourth pillar, which is headed by a commission official, mr dixon. thanks to the tireless efforts of mr dixon and his colleagues, the fourth pillar is functioning well, even though it faces enormous difficulties due to the legal and institutional vacuum in kosovo. the priorities for the moment are to put the banking system in order, to work closely with the other pillars and kfor to restore the supply of essential goods, housing and transport before winter, to prepare a simplified budget with the world bank and the imf, to resolve the fiscal problems and to establish with the world bank a medium-term investment framework to be submitted to the next donor conference. fourthly, the european union, and of course the commission, will also contribute to the reconstruction effort through the other pillars: through the first pillar, it will cooperate with the unhcr on humanitarian problems; the european union will cooperate with the united nations through the second pillar and with the osce through the third pillar on institutional development and democratisation. we will endeavour to ensure full cooperation between the participants whenever there is an overlap between the civil administration and reconstruction. mr president, following the recent council decision to ease sanctions in view of the crisis in kosovo, the commission is presenting a proposal to spare kosovo and montenegro from certain sanctions imposed by the union on the former yugoslav republic. the oil embargo and the ban on air travel will therefore be lifted. it is certain that good cooperation with all the relevant kosovar authorities will be essential to establish effective controls on the final destination of aid and to avoid diversion. mr president, in recent years europeans like ourselves have again been engaged in acts of extreme violence and attempts at ethnic extermination against other europeans, sometimes referred to by a euphemism which leaves me perplexed: 'purification'. as always in such cases, it is the innocent who suffer the most and their lives are ruined for many years to come. i know i am preaching conversion, but as the main direct contributor to alleviating suffering and returning to normalcy, and as the coordinator of the participation of others, the european union must do all it can. in this case as in others, by working with people of all ethnic backgrounds, we work for them and we work for the goals and values that unite us. by offering our humanitarian aid, we also hope to set an example as europeans
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. - mr president, we welcome with great interest and some concern the draft submitted to us and we naturally approve the guidelines set out by our rapporteur, mrs pack. as regards the committee on budgets and mr tillich - whom i represent here on the spot, and, commissioner, you will forgive me if i cannot stay to listen to your replies, but i shall be very interested to hear them - the concerns are both positive and worrying. we welcome three things: firstly, we welcome the idea of this agency acting on the ground. it is not in brussels, but on the ground that problems can be solved. it is better to do things in pristina than to wait in vain for them to be done in brussels. secondly, we also welcome the fact that the agency's structure is maintained in a hierarchical and accountable way, with the agency being managed by management staff drawn from the commission. however, we consider that the key to sharing is a little insufficient and that it gives too much, too little, to the staff coming from the commission in relation to the staff recruited on the ground. we also welcome the administrative flexibility i have just mentioned, which means that we will be able to meet local needs with staff who are largely local and therefore familiar with the terrain. from this point of view, commissioner, i would like to present this agency as an anti-bat, since we combine the flexibility that is necessary in bat with the maintenance of the hierarchy, the maintenance of responsibility, the absence of which has sometimes been denounced. our concerns are fivefold: first, the siege. it is not necessary to leave brussels to get to thessaloniki. you're either on the field or you're not. this agency deals with the problems of kosovo; it should be in kosovo. second, the duration. we are in favour of an agency that acts when the need arises. we are opposed to an agency that would live in administrative eternity. from this point of view, the 30 months seems to us, at least for the time being, to be something satisfactory. our fundamental concern is the balance of power between the commission, the council and the member states. and now we're worried. we see in the structure proposed to us - and the court of auditors shares our concerns - a serious risk of the administrative authority of the commission being dismembered in favour of an intergovernmental framework which we cannot approve. we are therefore in favour of a management board which does not hand over the direction of the agency to the member states but which maintains control by the commission. we are defending you, commissioner, and we ask you to defend yourself too. we are also in favour of not having a management committee but an advisory committee in which the states are involved, can make their voices heard, but are not the real decision-makers. the last point is that we want a clear financial responsibility. what is paid for by the european union must be managed for the european union and what is done for the member states must be managed by the member states. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we must be careful not to confuse fundamental problems with organizational problems. we agree that the agency for the reconstruction of kosovo should be located in pristina, but the agency or office for the reconstruction of bosnia was in sarajevo and the problems were enormous. so when we say pristina, we have not said anything yet, except that an agency for the reconstruction of kosovo must logically and effectively deal with the people of kosovo. i would suggest, however, that we also discuss how the reconstruction will be carried out. in this respect, what we know about the european union in bosnia is the enormous bureaucratic weight of our functioning as the european union. in other words, instead of simply focusing on thessaloniki or pristina, we should learn from bosnia and try to set up autonomous structures that can decide in pristina on the modalities of heavy reconstruction, i.e. bridges, houses, streets, etc. and at the same time on the modalities of the reconstruction of the fabric of civil society. what programme is needed to enable civil society to take over the task of reconstruction, as mr haarder said? let us not leave it, i would not say to the kla gangs, but i would simply say to the militaristic temptation that perhaps we should condemn politically but that we can understand after all that has been experienced, for fear of reliving such a situation. it is true that only democratization will move us forward. we could mention the example in bosnia of the programme: 3,000 roofs for bosnia. it was a very simple programme that told the people, "if you rebuild the structures of your walls, we'll pay for the roofs, and if you have the roofs, we'll pay for the heating". it was a programme to encourage people to take action at all levels, so i would simply like us to think about autonomous decision-making structures in pristina, which would give people the power to decide with us what needs to be done and that there would be no over-bureaucratisation in brussels, linked to the logic of the european union's functioning. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr. president, please excuse me, there's a problem. i am not speaking as an unregistered member of parliament. i am speaking as a member of the technical group of independent meps.
- mr president, i did not receive the notification and there is no record of it in the minutes. the vote that took place the day before yesterday was a vote on an interpretation of the rules of procedure, but it did not contain any provision relating to the group to which i belonged.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague, the rapporteur, mrs pack, has described the dire situation in kosovo: disorganization of public services, administrative and legal chaos. it must be admitted that this is only one of the results of the monstrous aggression which has been committed by the government of the united states of america and its european henchmen against all rules of international law, but also against all political teaching. several colleagues have made it clear today that in fact, in the face of the fight against ethnic cleansing, we are in fact, of course, seeing the completion of the elimination of the last serbs in kosovo. that's the reality. we have systematically destroyed civilian infrastructure, not only in kosovo but also in serbia. most of the time without any military justification. bridges, roads, locks, railways, power stations, administrative buildings and even hospitals have been destroyed, not to mention the dead, modestly called collateral damage, and their families. all this without any more justification than if nato had bombed the bridges over the loire to prevent the french police or gendarmerie from intervening in the suburbs of strasbourg, a spectacle which we may be given to witness someday closer than we think. the citizens of europe have paid to destroy. now they're gonna pay to rebuild. we look forward to hearing what the contribution of the united states of america will be. as things stand, we approve of the limitation of calls for tender and the award of contracts to natural and legal persons from the member states or beneficiary states. the question of the location of the agency is important, but less so than the definition of eligible countries. the united states of america and the european countries are, alas, responsible not only for the destruction in kosovo but also for the destruction they have caused in serbia, macedonia and montenegro. these few reflections cannot, of course, amount to anything less than the approval of a criminal policy which will go down in history as a terrible precedent from which we may have to suffer someday.
- mr president, perhaps mrs van der laan was thinking of a separate vote for each paragraph, not a vote by division. there's a difference between the two.
in writing. - marine pollution, whether accidental or deliberate, is a particularly serious threat to the maritime and coastal areas of the member states of the european union. in the recent past we have had several tragic examples of accidental pollution in the form of oil spills and other dangerous substances, including chemicals. the members of the union for europe of nations group believe that in the field of accidental marine pollution, the establishment of a community framework for cooperation is justified by the existence of a genuine common interest. the commission's proposal is to bring together, in a single legal framework, the various measures taken so far in this field. as regards the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, we voted against all those which call on the eu's coastal neighbours to use the phare, tacis and meda programmes to make a financial contribution towards the establishment of this community framework for cooperation. the three programmes do not currently provide for any action in this area and it does not seem desirable to encourage a dispersion of resources to the detriment of priority programmes for the economic development of the neighbouring countries of the european union which are candidates for accession. on the other hand, the members of the union for a europe of nations group voted in favour of all the other amendments, including amendment no 22, which limits the commission's right of initiative and allows the ad hoc committee to set its own agenda, draw up its own minutes and the declarations of interest of its own members. it is essential to put an end to the drift we have seen in other areas: the commission tends to set up committees and systematically seek to control them in their entirety, in order to make them totally dependent on its views. each committee set up by the commission must remain autonomous and independent in order to be able to play its full role as an expert.
in writing. - meps in the union for europe of nations group voted against all the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, which aim to convert the commission's recommendation into a directive, for three main reasons: bureaucracy, the legal basis and the structure of the control bodies in the member states of the european union. all the members of the union for a europe of nations group are in favour of a europe that promotes coordination between the different member states rather than a bureaucratic europe that advocates strict regulation that is not adapted to the diversity of geographical and cultural situations. on the legal side, we would like to point out that the role of the european parliament is to comply with the existing legal bases and that it must not, under any circumstances, create new ones which are not in accordance with the treaties signed by the governments of the various member states. finally, we would like to point out that the control bodies in the various member states are, for cultural or historical reasons, different. we know that the federalists would tend to replace the control bodies of the member states with a european super-control body that is far removed from the realities on the ground. in our view, the european supervisory body must remain as it is, that is to say, a body to check whether the supervisory bodies of the member states are applying community rules in order to avoid, of course, distortions of competition between the different member states. community rules must be applied fairly everywhere so that all operators can compete in the single market. in conclusion, the members of the union for a europe of nations group will ensure, throughout this parliamentary term, that bureaucratic and technocratic europe does not develop, but that europe develops in a harmonious framework accepted by all the citizens of the member states of the european union.
- mr president, the resolution which has just been voted on the policies of police, judicial cooperation and the movement of persons in preparation for the next european council in tampere shows some apparently favourable developments in parliament's position. for example, i have noted that our assembly has just rejected the original wording of paragraph 6 of the resolution which said that it was impossible to achieve the area of freedom, security and justice if the rule of unanimity in the council was to continue. the rejection of this draft is therefore positive. but whether this is a lasting reversal of parliament's position or a simple vote accident, the future will tell. in any case, many other provisions of this text are not at all in our favour. for example, the one which, under the pretext of harmonization and the establishment of a european immigration policy, lowers our defenses instead of raising them. for example, paragraph 10 states that the european parliament, and i quote: 'deems it urgent that the european union, in order to facilitate the integration of third-country nationals legally resident on its territory, should address the principles governing the status of such persons'. it is very commendable to want to facilitate the integration of third-country nationals into europe, but there is also another very serious hypothesis that should be examined: their voluntary return to their country of origin. but the european parliament's resolution, as it happens, does not say a word about this. the paradox is that we do not need european cooperation to facilitate the eventual integration of third country nationals. this is really the work of each nation when we would need such cooperation to facilitate their return home. but the eurocrats in power do not want a policy of controlling immigration, even if it would eventually allow them to prove their usefulness. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - the resolution just voted by the european parliament on the preparation of a charter of fundamental rights for the union is a perfect illustration of the risks of deviation which i denounced in my speech yesterday during the main debate. in virtually every paragraph of its resolution, the european parliament expands the interpretation of the cologne council decision in order to gain importance, marginalise national parliaments and prepare the transformation of the future charter into a european constitution. in paragraph 2, the european parliament claims that the preparation of the charter will be a joint responsibility of the council and itself, whereas it is clear that fundamental rights are now protected by national constitutions and that any exercise concerning them should involve national parliaments as a matter of priority, if not exclusively. in paragraph 3, the european parliament calls for an 'open and innovative approach to the nature of the charter, the nature of the rights which should be included in it, and its role and status in the constitutional development of the union', which clearly shows its desire to go beyond the mere collection of existing rights, as requested by the council. in paragraph 4, first and second indents, parliament requests that the number of its representatives in the 'constituent assembly' responsible for preparing the charter be equal to the number of the representatives of the member states, i.e. at least fifteen; the commission is also proposing that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all the other member states. in paragraph 4, third, fourth and sixth indents, parliament asks that the future parliament itself determine the responsibilities of its bureau and the organization of its working groups and secretariat, which would give it a very wide independence to then direct the process as it sees fit. in paragraph 4, fifth indent, parliament calls for a 'contribution from ngos and citizens'. we know what this means: the intervention in the debate of persons or bodies without democratic legitimacy, chosen according to obscure criteria, and often heavily subsidized by the european commission. this is the assurance of confusion, which, in view of the preceding premises, only the federalists will be in a position to profit from. we have here a perfect example of the beginning of one of those manipulations of public opinion which the federalists have always been fond of. the most surprising aspect of this manipulation is the attitude of the council: throughout the negotiations of the treaty of amsterdam, it had fiercely resisted the grouping, in a separate title of the treaty, of all the rights of citizens scattered throughout that text. he had won the case. but at the cologne council last june, it spontaneously, abruptly and without reference to anyone, accepted something much worse: the launching of a much wider process of dispossession of national constitutions. we will oppose this undemocratic manoeuvre without compromise.
in writing. - i vote against the guidelines and priorities proposed by the european commission to the tampere european council on rights and freedoms. the simple fact that it is not envisaged to regularize all the undocumented people living and working on european soil is enough to explain my vote. it is not without cynicism to present the european area as an 'area of freedom, security and justice'. capital is not asked for its origin to ensure free movement and free investment throughout the european union. but depending on your nationality and above all your social background, the free movement of persons is regulated, restricted or prohibited. mergers of multinational enterprises are free, but not mergers of immigrant workers' families. full freedom is granted where it is harmful to employment and to society. it is rejected, however, where the most basic humanity is at stake. the 'european charter of fundamental rights' which the tampere european council is expected to draw up will be nothing but a collection of empty words if it does not at least contain complete freedom of movement and establishment for all those who reside and work in the european union, irrespective of their nationality of origin; and full equality of rights, including the right to vote.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just two years ago in iran two jews were accused of spying for israel. they were sentenced to death and they were hanged. today, 13 jews and several muslims from isfahan, chiraz and tehran have been arrested and are at risk of the same fate. we know very little about them. the accused, one of whom is 16 years old, are said to be of very modest origins: cemetery keeper, shoemaker, circumciser, hebrew teacher. it's hard to believe these poor souls are endangering iranian democracy. since they were arrested, we haven't heard from them. and to hear of the arrest of jews, and then to be tried for espionage, is a very worrying sign for us. we are concerned, because we know the conditions of detention in iran. we are concerned because no evidence, no charge has been made public and contradictory debated. we're worried because they don't have the right to defend themselves. we are concerned, mr president, and we are sad too, because we were looking forward to the prospect of rapprochement between iran and the european union. it is now clear that this case jeopardises this reconciliation and that until we have guarantees that the rights of these defendants will be respected, we cannot consider it. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, between iran and the european union there are these hostages. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the fears expressed by our colleague mr zimeray are justified by the recent death sentences of four people following the student demonstrations in july; they are reinforced by the hanging last year of a 60-year-old man. the motion for a resolution which will shortly be submitted to parliament for approval was therefore the subject of a very broad consensus. it is intended to express parliament's indignation at the procedures applied and to demand that the basic rights of the defence be respected. it called for international observers to be allowed to follow the whole of the procedure. it also reaffirmed its commitment to the continuation of dialogue, provided that it would make progress in the area of human rights in the country, in particular with a view to suspending the execution of death sentences. in this respect, the amendment tabled by our colleagues in the green group is even clearer than the original joint resolution and i must say here that i personally support it. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the situation in togo is not new. since general zyadema seized power by force, human rights violations have been constant: executions, torture, arrests. after the electoral fraud last year which allowed general zyadema to remain in power, there are legitimate concerns about the democratic will of this regime. the absence of an independent electoral commission, the lack of fair access to the media, the lack of guarantees to campaign, led the opposition, the majority, to boycott the spring legislative elections. if we consider the agreement with the opposition recently signed as a step forward, it is very inadequate and risks remaining a piece of paper without a number of guarantees. the impunity of the perpetrators of the abuses must be ended immediately and the authorities must effectively respect human rights. not only must parliament be dissolved, but mr zyadema must be asked to resign before the end of his term so that genuinely free and fair elections can be held. these are basic conditions for resuming cooperation between the european union and togo.
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations?
- thank you, mr sakellariou. - thank you very much. your statement was not part of the minutes, but i will gladly take note of it.
- mr. evans, that correction will be made, and i thank you for it. (the minutes were approved) the commission has not yet submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
- the agenda calls for communication and especially an exchange on the state of the building louise weiss. ladies and gentlemen, a very brief history, but a brief one, to reassure you. you will remember that when we entered this building on 19 july last, we were, it must be said, quite unanimously disappointed by the contrast we could see between the really extraordinary appearance of the building from the outside - i think it should also be said, because it is a building that brings honour to our institution from the outside - and, unfortunately, everything we could see inside, such as malfunctions, problems of amenities, safety, and in general as problems affecting our normal working conditions, whether it be ourselves, our assistants, officials, visitors and of course the media. i made a commitment to you the day after my election to do everything in my power to ensure that improvements were made, and as you have seen, we have - and i am willing to employ a collective because i had the active involvement of our secretary-general, mr priestley, and the whole building team in this undertaking - so we have done everything we could to undertake these improvements in a period which was not very easy, as it coincided with the holiday season. mr. priestley set up a working group and we immediately listed everything we could observe in the immediate area and sent you this document. many of you have written to me and i have replied. i hope you received these letters. you had received a first letter from mr rieffel, our director, asking for your opinion, but i myself wanted to reply to you personally, and so all the colleagues who wrote to me received this reply. then, on monday, you found a letter with a little document that described the situation as we see it today. last week we came to strasbourg from brussels for a day with the quaestors, with mr colom i naval, the vice-president responsible for buildings, and with all the officials responsible for this building issue. we made a very serious inspection visit. i don't know if some of you have heard about this in the media, but we have looked at everything, recorded everything, and we have seen both what has been done and what remains to be done. today you have just experienced the second week of plenary sessions in this building and you have accepted my proposal for this exchange in a very constructive spirit. the problem is not to express regret, but to identify all the things that may have legitimately upset you, so that we can then see how to add further improvements to those we have already planned. to organise our debate, we are noting all the colleagues who have registered. i shall take up a few points which have been identified as sensitive areas, so that you can complete these points or, of course, other points. first, there was the problem of access for disabled people. in this respect, with regard to the legitimate request made by our colleague brian crawley, i have the feeling - i do not know if he is here today - that the necessary changes have been made immediately, in full consultation with him, whether it is the place in the chamber so that he can be with his group, or the arrangements for his office. every effort has been made to ensure that the situation of disabled members is taken into account throughout the house. there is still room for improvement in access for disabled visitors, which has not been sufficiently seen. we have already contacted disabled people's associations, who can advise us on the best improvements to be considered. we will have had these contacts by the october part-session and the arrangements could come into effect sometime next year. as far as signage is concerned, some improvements have been made and you will tell me in a moment whether they are sufficient. i'm reporting to you at this point that the info help system will be maintained. we are considering, with the mayor of strasbourg, to retain the charming hostesses who i think you have appreciated, both for their hospitality and their kindness. (applause) i hope they hear you. they will therefore be maintained, not indefinitely, which is not possible, but at least until the end of the year. i now turn to the second important chapter, that of the offices of members of parliament. these offices are very small. i'm not going to make you think that we're going to expand them, but we're going to try to make things better anyway. the problem of the blinds, which are jammed and obscure visibility, will most certainly be solved by the second part-session in october at the latest. as regards the furnishing of these offices, our quaestors - and i welcome those here - met on wednesday and decided that all offices will be equipped with wheeled drawers with three lock-down drawers. this was a request made by a number of colleagues. that decision has been made. (applause) then there is the problem of lifts and their safety. we have found, i need not repeat, a number of fairly serious malfunctions. of course, i took all the legal precautions, as you can imagine, in terms of liability. the company that built the lifts was immediately informed, in accordance with the legal forms of use, of what had happened. it made some improvements, which shows that it was necessary, so that the doors opened better, so that we were stuck less. however, it seems that there have still been many problems. on the other hand, i think the ventilation is better, because it was causing problems not only in the elevators, but everywhere. now, i have the impression, unless you tell me otherwise, that the ventilation setting is now quite in place. there is also the problem of the elevator cladding. as you can see, a prototype of the light wood cladding has been installed. i've had very positive feedback on this, and since it seems to have been a lot of rain, we're going to make sure that the battery of all six elevators is equipped with the same coating, which will make them look a little less anxious, a little less anxiety-inducing. i would ask those of you who are still stuck in the elevators for a very long time to tell me about it. we thought that was the case with mr prodi, but it was something else. that would have been a real high. however, i must be clear on this point, because, as you can imagine, i am going to refer the matter to otis again, because this is an extremely serious matter, which goes far beyond the normal improvement of our working conditions. as far as the media is concerned, you know that the press complained a lot about their newsroom, about their working conditions. we have also made some improvements in the heating system and the installation of blinds. the media is luckier than the mps. we have solved the problem of their blinds, but not yet that of the members' offices, as i said earlier. the mobile phones, which were not working, can now work in the press room. we also changed the location of the documentation, as the media wanted. there are still a number of things to be done, particularly about news agency offices which are not very pleasant, to say the least. we are also considering equipping the old documentation room, which is very bright, with landscape offices. the cost would be low, since no partitions would be made. they would simply be offices where news agencies could settle. it seems, and we have naturally made this proposal in full consultation with the journalists, that they like such an idea. for everything else, the tv buses, the parking access, there too i hope you noticed some improvements. we have done a lot of work in this area, but we still have a number of improvements to make. finally, and i will end with this for the moment, the problem of decoration. our surveyors will examine as quickly as possible everything we could do in a less expensive way, and with respect for the artistic property of the authors of the building, so that the somewhat sad places can be made cheerful. often, little is needed to change the appearance of a place without making extravagant expenditures. sometimes all you need is a color. i am convinced that our team of surveyors will be particularly creative in this area. ladies and gentlemen, let us now open the debate. we'll take very careful note of anything you tell us. i should like to inform you that i shall have to leave you at 10 a.m. because i have to attend the swearing-in of the commissioners in luxembourg, the ceremony taking place at noon. mr. provan will take over then, and you can continue until there are no more questions.
- thank you, mrs berger, for this very constructive suggestion, which we take note of.
- in the meantime, i'm gonna take a lesson from talking less near the microphone.
- i thank you, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, and i thank you at the same time for the very active contribution of the college of quaestors. i can tell you that i enjoyed it immensely.
- thank you, mrs lambert. - thank you. to convey the somewhat indigestible nature of the pizza mr. ford was talking about. we take note of what you have just said.
- thank you, mrs. pack, for bringing all these malfunctions to our attention. obviously, there's a mismatch of mood between an elevator and you, because five times is still a lot. we're gonna get this all sorted out.
- thank you, mr fabra vallés. - thank you very much. in fact, i do not feel that the problem you have mentioned is related to the building. in other words, you are referring to the problem of air service from strasbourg and the means of communication to get to that city. i thank you for bringing this up, because it will give me an opportunity to give you some information. our visit to strasbourg last wednesday ended with a meeting with the mayor of strasbourg and his main collaborators. i have told him of the very serious difficulties many of my colleagues are facing in getting to strasbourg in good condition. i can tell you, mr. fabra vallés, that the mayor has been extremely attentive to my observations. he asked me to send him as soon as possible - which i will do, with your help of course - a sort of status report to see how things are going in practice for all the nationalities represented here. i am making a promise to you this morning - and it is understood that i cannot promise you the impossible: i cannot promise you that you will have daily flights to take you back to your capitals and vice versa - that i will do everything i can, with the cooperation of the mayor and the competent authorities, to improve the situation in this respect as well. i am making this commitment to you because all i want, and it is also my responsibility, is for everything to happen in the best possible conditions in brussels and strasbourg for everyone: colleagues, staff, visitors.
- i thank you for extending the speech of mr fabra vallés and my own reply, because when we are going to contact you, through your groups, your delegations, to make what i call this state of affairs, we should report everything that can be improved beyond the planes. i know, for example, that there were desserts which my colleagues found very practical and which were removed. i can't tell you that we're going to bring them back with a magic wand. anyway, we'll see what we can do. so what i would ask you to do is to give a very concrete answer, as mrs maes has just done, for example, by saying: 'that train was good and it was cancelled'. we will then try to make things easier, even if it is not perfect. you'll be contacted. we'll see in what form very soon.
- mrs breyer, thank you for bringing up all these very important issues. i am sorry to leave you for the reasons i gave you earlier, namely to attend the swearing-in of the commissioners. i'm leaving you in the best of hands, mr. provan. i wish you a good weekend, a good weekend. i hope and trust that when we meet here on 4 october, everything will work out for the best. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i think we can be very proud of this magnificent building which will soon be known, i believe, throughout the world and which will contribute to the prestige of the union. before i make a few comments, i would like to draw your attention to the tastes and colors. i like these colors a lot. i may be a very small minority, but he's still a minority. you know, we can talk about colors for hours. a colleague of ours said to us earlier: 'i hope there will be pink.' i don't like pink! so i think we should try to be reasonable, spend as little money as possible, and then we'll all get used to it. i would like to make one point on the specifications. when we were told that disabled access was not good for visitors, maybe we should have been careful before. perhaps the specifications were not specific enough and i find it regrettable that we now find that disabled visitors cannot access properly. this improvement will still cost us a lot, but it is simply because we have not planned things in advance in the right way. a few thoughts now on elevators. they go all the way down to ground zero, glass doors open to the outside, but we can't get in. i would like to know why, because i think it is very regrettable. for car access, if the red light is extremely unpleasant, i think it is normal that we are obliged to use the badge. but if you have to use it and wait for minutes and minutes to get out, i don't really understand why. that they check us in, maybe, but that they check us out, that's beyond me. i would also like to ask whether it is possible to have a shuttle for the attendees, for the staff, when the meetings last until 9 p.m., so that they do not have to take a taxi. i think that's unfortunate. finally, the only thing that really bothers me is the welcome i get in this building. compared to the reception in brussels or the one in the old building, there is a big difference and we should think about providing a much better reception.
- mr president, i too came here this morning specifically to take part in the debate. i'd like to know when the schedule was decided. i have just realised that this debate is actually scheduled for 9 to 10.30 a.m. i would therefore like to thank you for allowing members to speak after 10.30 a.m. i'll send you a note in writing. i would, however, like to see a similar meeting in three months' time, at the end of the year, to take stock of what has been achieved in response to the requests made today. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, as i was not allowed to speak during the debate on the louise weiss building, i am giving you my written answer, as announced by the president of the sitting on friday morning. he was right to say that this debate is not an opportunity to speak for or against the seat of parliament in strasbourg. it is all the more incomprehensible, therefore, that he systematically refuses to give the floor to members who want to speak in strasbourg's defence in response to the attacks he allows to be made freely against strasbourg. i strongly object to this very partial way of conducting this debate, which seems to be a misuse of the agenda. if strasbourg was chosen as the seat of the council of europe as early as 1949, we owe it to a british gentleman, lord bevin, who saw in this city the symbol of reconciliation between france and germany, of reconciliation between all europeans. it is time to return to the fundamental principles, to take a stand and to outline for our fellow citizens the prospects for the peaceful organisation of our continent, respectful of human rights and based on a european model of economic and social development. what value does the colour of the walls of our buildings or the pressure of the water supply have in this context? the citizen listening to us will ask us if we have no more urgent matter to discuss than the details of our comfort! i do not deny that improvements can be made to these buildings. anyone who has opened new buildings, as i have, knows that it takes a while to get up and running; in six months, these details will be forgotten. i would therefore like to thank the president for the trouble she has taken to look into certain malfunctions and, above all, to thank and encourage all the staff for the real and persistent efforts they have made, the effects of which have been very noticeable this month. we are all concerned about the proper use of european taxpayers' money and i sincerely regret the behaviour of the dutch member who, in defiance of any notion of european solidarity, thought it appropriate to take the defence of 'his' taxpayers. well, let her know that my fellow citizens, whose honour and contributions i defend, and not who i own, have helped finance these buildings and are proud of it, for the vast majority of them. the european parliament, which has not yet reached the sums spent on the buildings in brussels, now has a dignified seat which should appeal to all those who frequent and work there for dignity and a sense of responsibility.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament which was adjourned on friday 17 september.
as you know, on the morning of september 21st, a terrible earthquake, measuring 7.6 on the richter scale, occurred on the island of taiwan. several thousand people were killed or seriously injured and the damage to property was enormous. i would like to express, on behalf of the european parliament, my deep sympathy and most sincere solidarity with the victims of this tragedy and their families.
the minutes of the sitting of 17 september were distributed. are there any observations ?
thank you, mrs maes. i take note of your statement, although it has nothing to do with the minutes. if there are no comments, i shall submit the minutes for your approval. (the minutes were approved)
i am very happy to do so on behalf of the whole of the european parliament.
thank you, mr speroni. there is one point, at least, on which i can give you satisfaction right away. it is clear that a form cannot change a regulation. however, we will look into the matter and see if we can give you satisfaction, particularly on the problem of crime. composition of parliament - composition of committees and delegations - membership of committees - depositing of documents - transmission by the council of texts of agreements - petitions - transfer of appropriations - calendar of sessions of the european parliament: see minutes.
the agenda calls for the fixing of the agenda. the draft agenda has been distributed and the following amendments have been proposed or made to it. as regards tuesday: - the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party calls for a statement by the commission on the french government's refusal to lift the embargo on british beef. this is a question that could possibly be raised in the context of the commission's statement on food safety, scheduled for tuesday morning. i give the floor to mrs lynne, who wishes to put this request to the vote.
no, we can't do that. this proposal is from the liberal group, it was tabled by mrs lynne and it is to have a debate on the subject that has been raised for this part-session. we have heard mrs lynne on behalf of the liberal group. we have heard one speaker against, mrs roth-behrendt. and now i ask if there is a speaker for this motion.
i have another request from the green group/european free alliance that the debate on food security on tuesday morning should be concluded with a resolution. the conference of presidents wished that this should not be the case. so i shall simply put this request to the vote. who is for a resolution at the end of the debate on food security? (parliament rejected the request) as regards wednesday: - i have no suggestion for change. on the other hand, the same greens/european free alliance group asked me to propose to the house that the debate on the opening of the millennium round should also be closed by a resolution. this is a request which the conference of presidents has not accepted.
perhaps i was not clear enough, baron crespo, i apologize. this is the first proposal to replace the item 'earthquake in taiwan' by a new item entitled 'nuclear accident in japan'. is that clear now ? (parliament agreed to the request) urgent procedure: see minutes
thank you, mr maccormick. i think you will have every opportunity to raise this point in the debate.
- madam president, i would like to table a procedural motion on the new chamber's layout. in the old chamber, the president sat in front of a flagpole representing all the countries of the european union. i see that in the new chamber that bouquet has disappeared. anyone can see that. i would therefore like to ask the following question: has this house deliberated on this question or, if not, has the departments been left to decide on a point which seems to me to be highly symbolic and important?
mr berthu, i can assure you right now that i have ordered this bouquet, which unfortunately is a little late. he'll be here tomorrow. (the sitting was closed at 5.35 p.m.) time for speeches - follow-up to questions pending - agenda for the next sitting: see minutes.
the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
well, we'll register you as being present. are there any other observations ? (the minutes were approved) deposit of documents - transmission by the council of texts of agreements: see minutes.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on public health and food safety.
- mr florenz, i can assure you that during the trilogue we shall have tomorrow morning i will let the president-in-office of the council know that the european parliament very much wishes the council to be present at our debates.
- madam president, mr prodi, ladies and gentlemen, after hearing mr prodi's proposals, i am extremely surprised by the position of the epp and the pse on food security. they may not feel ready to make any concrete proposals today, but we do. that is why we wanted to propose a resolution, because throughout europe, the successive scandals have led to consumers no longer trusting their farmers. the argument that the environment committee is planning a hearing on animal feed should not be an obstacle to debate. we can certainly hear experts on a small part of the subject, but we parliamentarians must nevertheless take initiatives. i think that is what the citizens expect from parliament and the commission. adopting a resolution today would have been a strong signal in this regard. the recent past and its staggered productivity have left us with a situation which, in agriculture as - too often - elsewhere, has placed politics at the service of the large agro-food economic groups and the large retailers. the result: mad cows, poison chickens, dioxin-like substances, waste oil in food oil, sewage sludge in livestock meal, and so on. the list of scandals is long and shows that european countries have not been any better than their american counterparts in terms of agricultural production, even though they have banned hormones. it takes courage to say it. recent efforts by some governments to control these industries remain inadequate. in addition, many european countries have taken no action. for that we need rules which give priority to the precautionary principle which has long been dear to the greens. the meaning of this principle has yet to be agreed. for us, it is about restoring the quality of food that guarantees the safety of products fit for consumption. first of all, we ask for an inventory of all the toxic substances that can contaminate our food through pollution: air, water and soil. we are calling for regular testing in sectors which have experienced toxicity problems and for checks in agricultural areas close to polluting enterprises. we want traceability at all levels, not just in the labelling of products that end up in the housekeeper's basket, but upstream. we want to know the exact list of products that go into the feed. finally, in the name of the same principle, it is urgent to wait before accepting genetically modified products whose long-term effects on the resistance of non-cultivable plants are not known, nor is the adaptability of pests to these gmos known. if the european union really wants to show all those who have suffered from the neglect of the past that it wants to involve all actors and that they can trust politicians again, it must make very concrete proposals on food security now. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, mr prodi, it is good that we are having a debate today on food safety, as there are many legitimate reasons for consumers to be concerned. the council and the commission would like to take this concern into account, but at the moment they seem unable to provide any other solution than piecemeal but frivolous regulations which the cleverest and least scrupulous will continue to circumvent at the expense of food safety. recent examples show this. i would therefore like to take this opportunity of general debate to urge my colleagues and the other institutions to return to some of the principles of common sense that have been swept away by the great theories that are too economic and not human enough. trust is not something that is decreed, it is something that is created. it can be innate, particularly when it comes to local products that follow sometimes age-old quality rules. so let us take advantage of this opportunity to recognize and give due priority to these trustworthy productions. at least let those who have known them and have always practised them with the confidence of their consumers continue to do so, without putting them under the knife of inappropriate guidelines because this reality too often escapes their author. these products of the land, i tell you, should never be penalized by community legislation, especially when it comes to marketing them as local products, because the quality of these products is the best guarantee of food security. i shall take our farmers' markets as an example. of course, the fruits and vegetables in my house are in non-isothermal cages, but at least we know where they come from. if they're not fresh, they rot. so, in that case, we can do without the cool dates. on the other hand, if you do not have the privilege of being close to the production sites, you must intervene to create trust and never betray it. but i am concerned when i see that the most basic precautions are not being taken. negligence or willful failure is a serious offence, for which all those responsible will have to answer to the people. so, to ensure food safety in the face of the unknown, i believe that, beyond the practice of scientific committees as is done far too often in the united states - and, i regret, even in our own country, in the european union - with decisions taken behind closed doors, we must first of all guarantee true and complete information to the consumer from the sources of production. the transparency of these products, their traceability with production and component data, and comprehensive labelling will enable everyone to be informed. in addition, the use of unnatural ingredients such as gmos or hormones must be clearly indicated, even if we want to ban them. how many more scandals will we have to wait for before we can impose, without risking fines, the recognition of the precautionary principle which, in the field of human health, is the only one capable of guaranteeing consumers the protection to which they are entitled? that is the question you must answer today, so that this debate will not have been in vain.
- madam president, mr president of the commission, if the epp did not wish this debate to take place today, it was not because it was important, but simply to be able to shed light on a number of things, to hear a number of experts, before making a decision. the debate is certainly taking place today, and since we are here and have heard mr prodi, we have been able to take account of what he has announced, namely the creation of an independent european agency, priority research into food safety, the strengthening of controls, etc. we would like to see these proposals not be wishful thinking. a european agency can be effective, but it can also be a matter of officials trying to deal with problems away from reality, and that is not what consumers expect. in the face of the many food scandals we are experiencing and the growing concern of consumers, echoed also by policy makers, i believe that there are very strong demands for more transparency, controls, traceability and, above all, much more responsibility at every stage of production. mr prodi, we will not miss a genuine agricultural reform. i think the last few decades have shown that we've been playing witch apprentice. but today we are faced with food scandals linked to bse, dioxin, antibiotics, pesticides and the excessive use of fertilisers. how much we know, how many scandals may yet come! so, mr president, you would be particularly responsible if you were not able to propose a real agricultural reform, and that is where we can regret the absence of the council, madam president, since it is largely on it that agricultural policy depends. the commission is therefore proposing a number of measures to improve the quality of products and the environment. all this has a cost, that of extensive production, but the agricultural budget is a large budget and it is enough to have the political will to change its distribution. finally, commissioner, president of the commission, madam president, we will have to be very united in our discussions with the united states on our relations in the wto.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened very carefully to the statement made by the commission on public health and food safety. the french delegation is very puzzled by the remarks we have heard if we place them in the context of the crisis we experienced a few years ago, that of bse, also known as mad cow disease. following an assessment by the french national food safety agency, france decided last week not to lift the beef embargo on britain. i was personally in favour of lifting the embargo when it came to northern ireland. the disease was absent or almost absent. the controls and traceability of products were of a very acceptable level. the situation in great britain is quite different: the disease has not been eradicated and the rate of sick animals is still too high to avoid any risk of contamination and to guarantee consumers a healthy product. i also took note, as did all my colleagues, of the commission's intention to set up a european food and drug safety agency. i am firmly opposed to this initiative. member states should be able to set themselves the level of precaution and food safety they want for their citizens. we have seen that the commission was fully responsible for the slow decision-making process in the mad cow crisis. i therefore do not trust it to guarantee my fellow citizens a sufficient level of health security. the role of the commission and the european institutions, in the specific case of food security, must be limited to negotiating the precautionary principle in the framework of international agreements and coordinating the policies of the member states and the european union. the sacred principle of the single market and globalisation must not be allowed to bury the food security that all citizens of the european union are entitled to expect. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - madam president, i shall be very brief because commissioner byrne will then answer the analytical questions. here too, i think, the commission must show that it is able to work as a team. you said that the white paper must be very ambitious, that it must contain a precise timetable. the commission is working towards this. we must also clarify the problem of the precautionary principle, because it is a framework principle which is at the heart of the matter. it is unthinkable to have standards that can convince all consumers and make the system clearer without addressing this aspect. it is important that all the problems of agriculture be taken into account in the debate and that quality agriculture be rewarded, and that the problem of the relationship between technical control and democratic control, which mrs roth-behrendt raised, be given serious attention. that is why we have introduced the debate today. this is a very important problem because we need an agency - let us call it that - which takes account of these two fundamental principles. finally, this agency, this structure - and i am addressing mr nisticò in particular - will absolutely have to be in contact with the citizens. the control structures must therefore be uniform but decentralized at the local level: we must not create any centralized bureaucratic structures. the last problem, which i think is of enormous importance for our future work, is that different commissioners and different directorates-general have to deal with parliament, as mrs roth-behrendt and mrs thyssen have pointed out. i will answer that this is - fortunately or unfortunately - the way we work. this is a very complex problem and involves not only the commissioner responsible for health but also those responsible for agriculture, research and trade. it is not a question of simplifying complex problems. we must provide a coordinator, knowing full well that the whole commission - and several directorates-general - is involved. our problem is to coordinate this process continuously without asking whether or not it will reduce the role of the various commissioners. we have dealt with this subject at the meeting of committee chairmen and we are trying to make progress because i do not think that we can solve the problems by pretending that the competences are simplified or unified. we must take account of the complexity of the matter and assume responsibility for coordination, but we must also stress that other commissioners also have responsibilities in this delicate area. i now ask commissioner byrne to answer the questions of this debate in an analytical way, which i think is extremely constructive.
commission - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me say at the outset how pleased i am to have the opportunity to discuss these important issues with you this morning. this debate is timely and i am glad that it is taking place at the beginning of the commission's term of office. i am particularly pleased, of course, to have my friend and colleague, the president, at my side to discuss these matters with you. we talk a lot about consumer confidence, but i would like to reiterate that consumer confidence is not an objective in itself. the real aim is to make food security a pillar of public health policy. i have been thinking about how to achieve this and that is why i have proposed to draw up a white paper on food safety. i am glad to see that you have welcomed this proposal this morning. the white paper will contain an examination of the important issues you have raised, such as control of the food chain, strengthening controls, food labelling and improving the early warning system, in order to ensure full transparency with regard to the early warning system and the early warning system. some of you have mentioned the fact that the degree of accountability and openness or transparency is not enough for the early warning system that we all want and i intend to deal with this in the white paper. we have had many discussions on the subject of the food agency. the structure of this agency has not yet been fully established but we have already given it a lot of thought. i believe that the agency can be independent, can give scientific advice independently and at the same time achieve the level of accountability that all of you as members of parliament demand and deserve. i believe that these two concepts are not mutually exclusive. these can be applied if we design the structure of the agency carefully and adequately. of course, i look forward to discussing these issues with the members in due course and i look forward to participating in the meeting i will have with the committee on the environment later this month when we will be discussing this matter in depth. it is absolutely essential to achieve greater transparency for consumers. i will also tackle the problem of traceability. many of you have raised this issue, which is of course of enormous importance. there are a number of issues we'd like to address. i am aware of the time i have and i would like to stress that i will be discussing these matters with you in greater detail in the committee on the environment later this month. first of all, i would like to address the recent controversy concerning the ban on british beef imports. let me say at the outset that i have received the preliminary opinion on the report presented by the french authorities and that opinion leads me to believe that there is no evidence in this report which has not already been taken into consideration by the scientific steering committee of the european union. in the light of this opinion, i have endeavoured to arrange an urgent meeting between french officials and the commission, which will take place this week. in addition, i sent a letter to the french authorities last night asking them to reply to me urgently and to produce all the appropriate facts to enable the conclusions to be drawn to which they appear to have arrived. if new information should appear in the french authorities' reply, i would of course immediately refer it to my scientific advisers and ask them to analyse these questions. the preliminary information i have indicates that no new information is available. however, i would like to examine the possibility of resolving the difficulties which have arisen in recent days in a diplomatic and friendly manner. that's why i wrote this letter last night and asked for the officials to meet. in conclusion, i would like to inform you of the latest developments in the meetings i held with the agriculture council last week in brussels. i must say that this is the first time that a commissioner responsible for food safety has been involved in the agriculture council. i have emphasized three problems in this meeting and i would like to mention them briefly this morning because many of you consider them important. the first problems are related to the dioxin crisis and the role played by the belgian authorities. as many of you know, tests carried out in belgium indicated that one per cent of the samples showed the presence of dioxin residues. the presence of this is not due to animal feed - for which the tests were originally intended - but to ambient industrial pollution. it is reasonable to conclude, as many of you do, that if dioxin was detected in belgium, there is a risk that it is present elsewhere in the european union and, therefore, in other parts of the world. i have drawn the attention of the agriculture council to my concerns and informed the council that i intend to include in the residue directive two additional substances contained in the list of annex i substances. the two substances i intend to add are dioxin and pcb. i also informed the ministers that i wished to see checks carried out in other member states to determine the presence and levels of dioxin resulting from general environmental factors. i am pleased to report that the ministers have welcomed these proposals very much. i expect things to change in the relatively near future. the second point of concern to me, and to which i drew the attention of the ministers, was the presence of sewage sludge in food. some of you have mentioned this morning the importance of pet food products. the common denominator of many food crises - bse, dioxin, sewage sludge - is animal feed. this is why this is an important issue that needs to be examined and solutions found. i have pointed out to the ministers that there seems to be some argument that there is some ambiguity in the legislation on animal feed as regards sewage sludge. i am not convinced that such ambiguity exists. i said it. i expect member states not to include residues in animal feed. i pointed out to them that i thought consumers were shocked by these events. (applause) the ministers welcomed the remarks i made and approved my point of view. i expect progress to be made in this area too. to return to the problem of sewage sludge and in the event that difficulties and the argument of ambiguity continue to arise, i will not hesitate to propose legislation to remove any ambiguity. finally, i drew the attention of the ministers to the question of gmos and animal feed. i propose that a new directive be introduced on this subject. that's the best way to approach the problem. i have also informed the ministers. the last issue i would like to raise this morning concerns international trade and relations with the world trade organization. you all know that articles 152 and 153 of the treaty, as they were added in amsterdam, give the portfolio i am in charge of considerable horizontal powers of control over all community policies. i think it is essential that we focus - as mr prodi said - on health and food issues because they are of crucial importance in the context of international trade. i look forward to the future discussions we will have on these issues, and in particular, as i said earlier, in the committee on the environment later this month. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner byrne. - thank you. the debate is closed.
- the agenda calls for the commission statement on the 11th international aids conference in lusaka.
commission. - i should like to begin by thanking the european parliament for addressing the important subject of aids in developing countries and discussing the conclusions of the international aids conference in africa, which has just been held in lusaka, zambia. the commission is very concerned about the devastating effects of aids in developing countries and the apparent failure to bring the epidemic to a halt and to provide adequate care for all those affected and infected. the statistics and analyses are convincing and show that the aids epidemic cannot be ignored by the developing countries and the international community. in developing countries, where 90 percent of the people infected with hiv live, aids is undermining all efforts to improve the quality of life. in many of the countries where it is most prevalent, aids has already reduced life expectancy by more than a decade. aids is rooted in poverty and inequality and exacerbates these factors. its effects are particularly devastating for the poor, who have the fewest resources to cope with the disease. i would like to emphasize some of the efforts made by the commission and in particular some of the new initiatives envisaged. the commission has been dealing with the aids problem since 1987 and has implemented policies, strategies, actions, financial means and, last but not least, global partnerships and partnerships between countries. by the end of 1997, the european community had allocated a total of eur 200 million to hiv/aids projects in most developing countries. we are determined to go further by allocating more resources and working with countries, member states and international partners to develop effective strategies to stop the spread of hiv, mitigate the impact of the disease on the health sector and provide care for people already infected with aids. however, we cannot tackle aids without first recognising that it is a threat to all countries and that each country has a fundamental responsibility - and capacity - to protect its own people through political leadership, adequate resources and effective and equitable strategies. an increasing number of countries have ignored the aids epidemic, denying that the behaviour of their populations is causing the disease to spread; the facts have contradicted them in a tragic way. it is particularly important that the authorities in these countries make a clear call for the prevention of the spread of the epidemic. hiding the facts won't do any good. the population must be clearly informed of the danger to which they are exposed and of the preventive measures which can be taken. i am thinking in particular of the younger generation. sexual practices and rights, especially among young people, were discussed at the recent cairo+5 international conference on population and development. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of health care in the community. however, political leadership and recognition of the aids problem is only the first step. our common approach to the epidemic must be broad and equitable enough. the poor and the poor countries face many pressing problems alongside aids, and government aid and international resources are scarce and even declining. in a typical developing country, it costs as much to treat one aids patient for a year as it does to educate ten elementary school students for the same period. it is difficult but essential to strike a balance between these two commendable objectives. all partners should therefore play an appropriate role in a genuine partnership. this has been the spirit of the eu response in the past and will be the principle in the future. countries are trying to develop incentives to find solutions to reduce risk and vulnerability, even in the most difficult situations. countries need to make decisions about sustainable and equitable financing. in addition, the international community, including the eu, can help, for example by reducing the cost of condoms and providing clean needles and essential medicines. these should include medicines that can have a significant impact on reducing the risk of mother-to-child transmission of hiv and medicines that are essential, especially for the poorest, most affected and most vulnerable. as for condoms, they are one of the safest ways of preventing the spread of the epidemic. some have moral reservations about the use and promotion of this type of prevention. however, i would like to stress that given the scale of the public health problem we are facing, the interests of the populations at risk must be put before dogmatic positions of principle. it is most encouraging that a growing number of developing countries have already put the interests of their people first, but there is still a long way to go. aids must be an even more central part of our development and poverty reduction efforts. we know that the greater the inequality, the greater the number of people infected with aids, and this is particularly true in the case of inequality between men and women. aids spreads more rapidly in cases where women are dependent on the income of the spouse, are illiterate and have limited rights in divorce, inheritance and child custody. the eu, together with its international and national partners, has been generous and timely in responding to the aids pandemic in several developing countries. however, the assistance we have provided has not always been directed to the most effective interventions and has not yet reached the level needed to achieve the required results. we will therefore continue our efforts with developing countries to ensure that the knowledge available and the funds we provide produce better results in the future. however, only joint action can achieve the required level and we will redouble our efforts to coordinate our work with all the partners involved. in conclusion, the commission welcomes the declaration of the heads of state or government of the sadc on aids, signed in lusaka. we welcome the signing of an additional financial package for the regional action plan on aids in the sadc region (eur 5 million) and an additional regional initiative on aids for all acp countries (eur 20 million) as soon as possible. these additional funds may seem meager in view of the scale of the problem; however, they must be seen as an additional effort, an additional catalyst for eu and international commitments to combat this devastating epidemic. we must work together and continue these efforts.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the fight against aids in developing countries has been raised many times in the european parliament. yet, since 1996, the situation has worsened further: 89% of people with aids live in the 10% poorest countries. this is a clear indication of the failure of a policy which is in fact aimed at limiting the disease without looking at the economic and social roots of its spread. on the one hand, the economies of african countries are collapsing because of the structural adjustments mandated by the world bank and the imf. states are cutting back on their social budgets, resulting in an inability to provide the minimum care for the sick. the european union must help these countries to ensure this minimum and better if possible. we were astonished to learn that, contrary to the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation, the aids budget would be cut in half, which would be a scandal in view of the urgency of the situation and contradictory to what mr nielson said. in most african countries, testing is not available, and even if it were available, it is understandable that no one would want to know their status if the announcement of hiv positive is reduced to waiting for death. indeed, medical care is almost non-existent in most of these countries. in the face of this situation, the lusaka conference often made a dislocated speech, advocating abstinence, moral order, and traditional medicine. we cannot fight aids by neglecting medical care. the most affected countries should therefore be granted the right to compulsory licensing to produce generic hiv treatments at lower cost, which are effective in preventing the emergence of opportunistic diseases, which inevitably lead to death. today, this right is not applied, under pressure from patent holders, either states or multinationals. the european union will therefore have to defend the application of this right to compulsory licences during the millennium round, in accordance with the precautionary principle. millions of dead, millions of orphaned children, we cannot stand idly by. that is why, on behalf of the green group/european free alliance, i ask you to support our proposals so that we can really give the developing countries the means to fight the aids epidemic.
- madam president, everyone remembers the alarm sounded at the 11th international aids conference in lusaka less than a month ago. hiv has become the number one cause of death in africa. in some countries, up to a quarter of the population is affected. we can speak of a risk of humanitarian catastrophe. by calling for a debate in the european parliament, i wanted to show that europe had heard this call. i have since met with some of the leading ngos on the ground in the fight against aids . i would like to draw three main conclusions from these discussions. the first of these concerns the budgetary resources that europe devotes to the fight against aids in developing countries. i would like to remind you that the draft budget for 2000 provides for a dramatic reduction in our aid, a reduction of two thirds in the commitment appropriations, which will rise from eur 16.5 million to eur 5.5 million, at the very moment when it is necessary to strengthen international mobilisation. we as members of parliament will therefore have to take up our responsibilities in this respect shortly. the second area in which we can and should improve our intervention is, in my view, the choice of our priorities on the ground. the commission is in favour of prevention, which is essential, but it underestimates access to care, which is inconsistent. how can you convince people to get tested if they know they're not going to get treated anyway? this situation is fueling fatalism. i therefore believe that prevention, access to care and research must be seen as inseparable. thirdly, there is the essential question of the price of medicines, so that the people of the southern countries can have access to them. commissioner nielson has raised this problem and i have two proposals to make. on the one hand, the european union could and should enter into negotiations with the laboratories in order to arrive at different prices in the north and the south. on the other hand, europe could indeed play a decisive role in the seattle negotiations on international trade. the intellectual property agreements signed in the framework of the wto have, in principle, so far tolerated that 'in emergency situations - and here we are - states may authorize the local production and distribution at lower cost of medicines that are otherwise protected by patents. this is the issue of compulsory licences that we have been discussing. in practice, the use of this clause exposes the countries concerned to threats of sanctions from the most powerful groups and states. this has to stop. the european union would therefore do itself a great honour in seattle by firmly defending the principle of a kind of health exception, in other words by demanding that the major public health imperatives are not threatened by international trade agreements. the european union could also help the countries of the south to prepare their legislation in this spirit in order to counteract ultra-liberal pressures. mr president, by adopting these proposals, europe can assert its own identity on the international scene and help to give hope to millions of people.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the aids epidemic in africa is becoming more and more dramatic. the recent lusaka conference was a powerful demonstration of this. every year, 2 million people die of aids and 4 million more are infected. in total, 25 million people in africa are now living with aids and their deaths are almost programmed. in about ten african countries, life expectancy will not reach 60 or 70 years in 2010, as was expected, but will fall to 40 years, a rate similar to that which we experienced in europe in the middle ages. this epidemic is not only a humanitarian and health catastrophe: it also threatens the social and economic cohesion and demographic balance of african countries. in kenya, for example, 43 of the 50 tax officials who died last year died of aids. according to the zimbabwe farmers union, the virus is responsible for a 60% decline in maize production and 30% in livestock production. in zambia, if the projections are correct, there will be one million fewer children in 2010 than today. in this situation, how can we accept that the appropriations for the fight against aids in developing countries should be cut by a third by the year 2000? how can we accept, commissioner, that pharmaceutical companies have a real monopoly on manufacturing and marketing? we need to renegotiate the agreements we have made on intellectual property. there are solutions. the pharmaceutical industry must no longer simply calculate its margins on the basis of the profitability of western markets alone and must urgently provide - and at cost - a triple therapy to poor countries. today, the countries of the south must be able to produce and buy the necessary medicines. in a few weeks' time, the next wto negotiations in seattle may be a major milestone. we must do everything we can to ensure that free and anonymous testing centres are set up: this is an effective way to stop the disease all over the world. the use of condoms should also be increased because in countries such as senegal, condoms are known to have played an important role in the decline of the disease. but how many of us would give up half our daily paycheck for a condom? for a farm worker in the sahel, a condom costs 150 cfa francs, or 1.50 francs, half his daily wage? i would ask you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and you too, commissioner, to call on the un, the united states and the european union to create a global fund for therapeutic solidarity. what could be more urgent than saving 25 million people from a programmed death?
- mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i already had the opportunity to say last march that i was, and am, as a frenchman, in favour of a very voluntarist policy on energy. we must, as far as possible, go beyond the declarations of intent so often heard over the last decade to find strong practical applications if we are to reach this, albeit modest, 12% target. only then can the european union have a sustainable, balanced and secure energy policy. it is, of course, the european commission's job to do this. to this end, two strategies have been developed in two multiannual programmes: save ii and altener ii. today, at second reading, we are talking of course about extending both programmes, but also about improving them through the possibilities offered by the amsterdam treaty and codecision. as regards the langen report, on which i am speaking in more detail, and renewable energy sources, everyone knows the importance of these sources of energy in reducing pollution and preserving natural resources. we also know the difficulties in penetrating these energies in a liberal market where more traditional energy resources are often much cheaper, not to mention the lack of measures to promote new energies in a voluntary way. that is why i naturally support the amendments tabled by mr langen which call for the commission to play a more active role in encouraging a coordinated promotion strategy in the member states and in developing europe's export potential for renewable energy technologies. of course, there will be some additional costs. we must accept them, because they are very modest in relation to the €7 million at stake. i also support the call for a renewable energy charter. in conclusion, i would say that the vote on these two reports is a pledge to the european citizens of the european union's will to protect the environment while reducing our energy dependence. it is also a declaration and an act against the dictatorship of the market and liberalism in every sense. more specifically, on the eve of the next global conference on climate change to be held in bonn, this is a positive signal that reinforces our kyoto commitment to reduce co2 emissions.
- mr president, i thank mrs kinnock for her report. the agreement between the european union and south africa, on which we are giving our opinion today, is of a very important nature. i am all the more in favour of this since the council unblocked the negotiations at the beginning of this year, sending a very bad signal to the south african people. in february 1999 our assembly expressed its incomprehension at this rejection, even though the interests of certain european agricultural producers should be taken into account. but they could be without calling into question the whole discussion. the urgent appeal of parliament was therefore heeded, as the council finally approved the agreement. i am also pleased that, at south africa's insistence, the agreement has been extended to include development cooperation. it is now up to us to monitor the implementation of this agreement with the greatest possible attention so that its most positive aspects contribute to the development of the new south africa. the 'rich country' is one of the poorest on the continent, but social relations are still very unequal, to the point that the undp ranks it 93rd in the human development index. 52% of annual income goes to only 10% of the population and unemployment is said to have risen from 30% in 1994 to 37% in 1997. these disparities are the basis for the racial divisions that still exist. in short, as the south africans themselves say: "apartheid has been defeated politically, but it is still very much present in the daily life, economically and socially, of millions of people". there is legitimate impatience, particularly among the black population. after having brought our solidarity to the liberation movement against the harsh apartheid regime, it is the unprecedented efforts, reflected in the rdp, that we must help. there has already been substantial progress in schooling for children, community health care, access to clean water and electricity, but much, much more remains to be done. i am all the more sensitive to this agreement because, after years of demonstrating for the release of nelson mandela, i had the honour of visiting south africa the day after his election as president. finally, we need to hear the voices of those who are speaking out about the consequences of free trade. the preference of south africa was based on an agreement close to the provisions of the lomé convention and the unctad predicts an unequal impact on bilateral trade flows to the detriment of south african products. in addition, regional concerns and fears in the southern african customs union countries were not sufficiently addressed. botswana, lesotho, namibia and swaziland will lose a significant source of revenue when the entry into force of the agreement results in a drastic fall in the level of the current customs duties they derive from their union. and the entry of subsidised cap products into their market carries real risks for their agriculture. the agreement we are discussing is strategic for both sides. it is also for peace, stability and development in southern africa. so in addition to my approval, i'll end with a proposal. perhaps we could hear the ambassadors of the southern african countries in parliament, so that they can be directly involved in the new relations between the european union and this region of the world which holds such promise for the entire african continent.
mr president, as the representative of an agricultural country, france, and even more so of a country which has attached its name and its policy to a certain conception of cooperation with africa, we cannot agree with mrs kinnock and therefore approve the so-called trade and cooperation agreement with the republic of south africa, for reasons of form and substance. the reasons are obvious. the first concerns the nature of the transaction concerning the protected designations of origin. granting financial compensation to a country to stop the misuse of protected names - such as sherry in this case - is setting an extremely dangerous precedent. it also means that if this agreement is ratified by the national parliaments, whose primary role, i say in parenthesis, is once again verified, any third country could decide to use a european protected designation of origin in order to negotiate a financial transaction. this is absurd. the second reason seems to us to be even more serious. it is the philosophy itself, or more precisely the ideology implied in this agreement. the claim that trade liberalization is a priori favourable to development is certainly part of the globalist vulgarity that is everywhere, but the facts keep refuting these claims. first, it is clear that poor countries are getting deeper into difficulties as their borders are opened up and essential services are privatised. moreover, the dominant countries today have ensured their expansion through planned protectionism, and it is this protectionism that i wish to see. the agreement responds to an ideology that only aims to mask the harmful policies of a commercial superpower, the united states, and here as elsewhere, europe is following in its footsteps. as for the question of form, i am merely raising it. this is yet another example of the collusion between the commission and parliament to deprive the european council of what, in my opinion, is its exclusive competence, namely foreign policy. for all these reasons, we cannot approve this agreement.
- mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation with south africa, helping it to emerge from underdevelopment, should be a basic duty for europe, whose ruling classes have in the past benefited greatly from the plundering of that country's mineral wealth and the exploitation of its poor masses. but i will certainly not join in the complacency of the european institutions, which even have the presumption of claiming to have contributed significantly to the disappearance of the apartheid regime in south africa, when the responsibility of the great powers, including european powers, is overwhelming in maintaining an infamous regime for so long. it was the struggles of the black masses that brought about the end of institutionalised segregation, but unfortunately they were not able to put an end to the social segregation which keeps the working and unemployed in this country living in misery. all that the european institutions are offering south africa in terms of cooperation is a trade agreement that has been laboriously negotiated to benefit the interests of european trade and industry, an agreement that will only benefit the tiny minority of south african exporters of precious stones and agricultural products who have already been the main beneficiaries of apartheid. the signatories to the agreement do not hide this fact, and i quote them as saying that 'the provisions on cooperation are intended to facilitate the restructuring and modernisation of south african industry and to boost its competitiveness'. well, the workers of any country will have understood that it will be layoffs and worsening unemployment! so our solidarity goes to the workers, the destitute people of south africa, not to those who, there or here in europe, are enriching themselves by adding to their misery.
- commissioner, it seems that there are still significant difficulties in the wine and spirits sector which are preventing the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and south africa. it is essential for us to know whether or not south africa has taken the necessary measures to ensure that a number of key names, including those of port and sherry, are no longer used for its exports to the european community and, within five years, are removed from any export market. we also do not imagine, commissioner, that you could consider raising the current level of imports of south african wines into the european union - 320 000 hectolitres, i remind you - without preserving a minimum of customs duties, unless it risks seriously disrupting the whole european sector. i understand that to settle this dispute it would be sufficient to amend annex 10 to the memorandum of understanding and i would like to hear from you on this point. however, other information suggests that this annex will have to be amended if it is not validated by 30 september. i would therefore like to know the commission's position on whether annex 10 is still valid today, six days after the original deadline, or whether the commission has proposed an amendment. we feel, commissioner, that pretoria has a different interpretation of the content of this agreement and, in particular, of annex 10 to it than your services do. we ask you, in any case, not to consider the conclusion of a global agreement without first reaching an equitable agreement which is neither destructive for one side nor for the other. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - i can guarantee that this conference will take place in lesotho on 13 and 14 october. we are ready to discuss with the representatives of the blns countries how to structure the support package for these countries. so we're doing that, too.
the agenda calls for the communication from the president of the commission on the decisions taken by the commission at today's meeting.
commission - (it) madam napoletano, if we take into account the reactions, i would say that we have really been impartial. everyone has criticized me, starting with the italian press, not to mention the spanish press, the french press, and the germans have even done so orally. so whether we were very bad or very good, i don't know. but i want to emphasize something very important: why did we do this? it is not a genuinely european structure if a particular post is reserved for a country for 30 years or for the same person for 20 years. the future of what we call europe is at stake here. so, in this case, mistakes are possible, some people in high-level positions may be sacrificed, but do you understand what's at stake, do you understand what we're facing? we are really facing the future of a structure which wants to be as international as possible. secondly, i took a risk with these decisions, a very big risk, which is also a sign for the future. it is clear that promotions must be given on the basis of merit and at times they disturb or destroy certain balances between countries. but the future of europe is at stake here, and this is already a very important consequence. i saw it in the reactions that followed. after reasoning with the representatives of the various countries, with the people who opposed me, we came to the conclusion that we must invest more in the training of young people, that we must put more energy into sending high-level officials to brussels. that's what i wanted! launch a chain reaction to make it the best bureaucracy there is. it is clear that this is a challenge, as i said earlier in reply to mr cox's question: to start by designing a type of bureaucracy suited to the objectives we want to achieve and then to continue in our choice of better men, with consequences that sometimes strongly alter the balances between countries. i think it is worthwhile, however, for a future objective. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, mr prodi. my dear colleagues, unfortunately, time has passed. it is now time to put an end to this very interesting debate and to move on to question time with the commission.
commission - (da) echo is closely monitoring the situation of people who have been expelled following the new combat operations which have been taking place since the spring in afghanistan. the office is in regular contact with the international red cross, un agencies, ngos in the country and echo's own representative. the commission has also been working with the un refugee agency to develop a new strategy to combat the spread of the disease. the echo representative is currently in the panshir valley to assess the situation. the difficulties of access to the panshir valley, the extremely explosive situation and the obvious political sensitivity in the region require a coordinated intervention between the various humanitarian organizations in order to avoid errors of judgment and wrong decisions. furthermore, everything we do must respect the neutrality of echo's mandate. echo intends to offer eur 1.5 million in aid to all the deportees who are in the vicinity of the different front lines, namely the panshir valley - these are the deportees following the fighting operations in april and may - and kabul. this aid, the grant of which is already the subject of a proposal for adoption, does not preclude the need to allocate additional aid before the end of the year. the situation may be serious as regards the threat of winter approaching and its severity. in accordance with an agreement with the most representative humanitarian actors, this aid will be mainly aimed at consolidating the existing humanitarian structures in the region and assisting the local population in assisting the expelled through medical structures, food and housing. the practical details of the implementation of humanitarian action will be determined in collaboration with our partners in this field. we are prepared to review our actions at all times, particularly in view of the great instability of the military situation.
- it's a response to bureaucrats and technocrats. in reality, europe is very slow, it is doing too little and the neutrality you have mentioned seems to me scandalous. my question concerns humanitarian aid in the panshir valley, that is to say, in the area controlled by the resistance to the totalitarian and criminal regime in kabul and the taliban, whose appalling fate for women is all too well known. you have to choose. there are over 100,000 men, women and children who, as winter approaches, will be faced with a humanitarian catastrophe of unprecedented proportions in the panshir valley. then don't talk about neutrality with me. europe is not neutral in this matter. she has to choose. there are torturers and victims, there are nazis and jews, there are criminals and there are innocents! and i ask you to answer clearly the question of what we are going to do for those women and children who are today surrounded in the panshir valley. we are waiting for a different response from europe.
- yes, mr. simpson, i have heard of this terrible accident myself and i agree with your proposal. i will write on behalf of all of us, if you will, to express our deep sympathy to all those who are being tested by this disaster. minutes of the previous sitting adopted: see minutes.
- the agenda calls for the statement by the council and the commission on the state of relations between turkey and the european union. i have received six motions for resolutions tabled on the basis of rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the french, flemish and italian members of the european right are in favour of establishing relations with turkey based on mutual respect, mutual benefit and non-interference in internal affairs. on the other hand, they are clearly opposed to turkey's integration into the european union which would not be in the interests of either the union or turkey. the turkish nation is a great nation, but it is different from the nations of europe in origin, language, history, culture, religion, institutions. most of its territory and people are in asia. the integration of turkey into the european union would pose insoluble problems: immigration aggravated by the demographic differential, economic competition aggravated by disparities in income and wage costs. we must therefore finally break free from the globalist delusions which seek to extend the union indefinitely, without taking national identities into account. we must also get out of the humiliating ambiguity in which we have held turkey for years. it takes courage to say that turkey's preeminent role is to be a bridge between europe and asia, between the west and the east, and not to achieve a crippling integration for all the nations involved.
- mr commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by reminding you of the european parliament's resolution adopted on 18 june 1987. in this resolution four points were mentioned, and i quote: 'the unavoidable obstacles to the consideration of turkey's possible accession to the community'. i would therefore like to recall these four points. firstly, the refusal of the turkish government to recognize the genocide which was committed against the armenians in the past; secondly, its reluctance to apply the rules of international law in its disputes with greece. thirdly, the retention of turkish occupation troops in cyprus; the fourth point is the denial of the kurdish fact. nothing has changed since then. of course, the resolution we are voting on today contains a number of points, but we must emphasize that the current situation in turkey is unacceptable to us and to the copenhagen criteria, as is stressed in the third paragraph. it is up to turkey to change its attitude if it really wants to join the european union. it's up to her to change. it is clear to us that the cyprus question is an unavoidable issue and that turkey cannot ignore the kurdish problem. these are key questions. we must remain firm on our demands if we are to be credible and if we want turkey to change. we know that democracy cannot be strong in a country, as history has shown us recently, unless that country is able to recognize its minorities and respect them. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, the passionate and exciting nature of the debates which took place last week in brussels within our group and those which are taking place at this moment in this house show, if necessary, the importance of the question which is before us today. in this light, there is a broad consensus in favour of recognising turkey's special place, because of europe's history and geography. the agreement therefore emerges on the need to deepen relations between the european union and that country. moreover, while turkey has made progress in its move towards rapprochement, doubts remain about its ability and even its willingness to meet all the copenhagen criteria. it is time to break out of the ambiguity. this is why our group has suggested the setting up of a discussion forum, bringing together political figures from the european union and turkey, but also representatives of civil society. the aim would be to examine in greater depth the questions which still pose problems: those which, of course, concern respect for human rights and minorities, but also those which relate to economic relations, in relation to which europe must fulfil its commitments concerning the customs union and accelerate the establishment of the corresponding financial protocol. finally, in view of turkey's geostrategic importance and the role it has always played in defending europe, we believe that foreign and security policy should also be included on the agenda. the founding of such a forum seems to me to be the only way to give a straightforward answer to the questions that remain.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after having chaired the europe-israel delegation under netanyahu, today, after and with the election of ehud barak, i want to say that i am pleased with the resumption of the peace process. barak promised, and he did. as they say in french, let's not be too proud and salute israeli democracy. but at the same time, we won't fool ourselves. it won't be easy, nothing will be easy. there will undoubtedly be crises, blockages, and i want to say today that we must trust the negotiators, and perhaps, at the level of our parliament, we must commit ourselves in the future not to multiply, over the months, resolutions that are somewhat instructive, with each incident along the way. i'll close with a second vow. the european union should cease to be a mere financial donor and finally have a political presence in the middle east. it is still necessary for it to find the means, and the commissioner and the president of the council will perhaps tell us that.
- you are absolutely right, mr blokland. when the vote on the calendar is over, i shall propose to the conference of presidents that the session in question, exceptionally, should not begin until tuesday morning, in order to respect the monday which is a public holiday in a number of our countries. this is not the case in all countries, but i think this proposal would be a solution. the result of the votes: see minutes.
commission - madam president, i hope to appear on the screen for less than ten seconds. on amendment no 1, the commission has always taken the view that renewable energy policy and energy efficiency policy are closely linked and should be closely coordinated, but we wonder whether a charter on renewable energy is not premature. we accept the principle of amendments nos 2, 7, 8 and 9, but we think they could be reworded. we are happy to accept amendment no 3. we accept the principle of amendment no 4, although we do not believe that the point is to add a third objective to the programme but rather to clarify its first objective. amendment no 5 is perfectly acceptable. we are very happy to accept the principle of amendment no 6. amendment no 10 is the one which is the most difficult for us. we have had the opportunity to study it, and we now believe that it should be rejected for two reasons. firstly, the altener programme is open to the participation of countries considered for membership. this is not the case in the associated mediterranean countries mentioned. secondly, the amendment refers to a recital without establishing the corresponding reference to the article concerned, which i think is article 7. in our view, accepting this amendment would be contradictory and confusing.
- i thank the commissioner patten. i would have liked to have asked the council to give me its views, but as you can see, this will be a little difficult for me, and i am very sorry about that. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
- mrs ahern, you are embarrassing me a little, because normally i have to put amendment no 5 to the vote and then, if amendment no 5 is rejected, amendment no 13. i think the message is clear to all the members and i must stick to the rules of procedure, because we cannot change the order of voting as planned in the middle of the sitting. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
commission - if there is a discrepancy, it is the most complete without our knowledge. we are in favour of the report proposed by parliament and we are in favour of the agreement. we do not think there is any problem in that respect.
- it's all clear.
- as you can imagine, this is neither the place nor the time to start a debate. i did, however, open the vote. (parliament adopted the decision)
- yes, i can tell you that it is the english version that is authentic.
- that's exactly what i was going to suggest, mr. friedrich. i think it's very important. i think that the commissioner has a very good point. so i'll read before we vote on what we're going to vote on.
- if you please, mr swoboda, i think it would be good, for the sake of clarity, if you would present your oral amendment to me when we come to the vote on paragraph 7.
- madam president, once again, when voting on the calendar of partsessions for the year 2000, we had to resist an onslaught of amendments aimed at reducing the duration of the strasbourg plenary sessions. this behaviour is all the more intolerable as it is aimed at emptying an intergovernmental compromise whose ink is barely dry of its content, since it is protocol no 12 to the treaty of amsterdam, which has just been ratified by the various member states. the commission's decision to initiate the procedure was based on the principle of proportionality. the opposition in strasbourg, therefore, finding it impossible to reduce the number of sessions, is now seeking to reduce the number of days in each session, which would lead to the same result, by different means. in our opinion, this would also be contrary to the spirit of the treaty and we are therefore pleased that these amendments have been rejected. but we also take this opportunity to reiterate our position in principle on the brussels mini-sessions. as the treaty says, and as the court of justice has pointed out, these are additional sessions - i say 'additional' - which can only be provided for if all the normal sessions in strasbourg have been held regularly. the mini-sessions are therefore supplementary sessions, which obviously means, in our view, that they can only be held if the regular strasbourg agenda is overloaded. in this case, it is clear that we cannot know today, when voting on the calendar for the year 2000, whether the agenda for the november 2000 plenary session, for example, will be overloaded and whether a mini-session will have to be added on 29 and 30 november, that is to say in more than a year's time, in exactly 14 months' time. by taking such decisions, the european parliament is violating the spirit of the treaties and i hope that governments will be found to put things right.
in writing. - on the occasion of these technical votes on veterinary and phytosanitary matters, i would like to stress how important it is that the member states of the european union retain sovereign, national, freedom of assessment and decision-making on all food safety matters. indeed, states must retain the absolute right to protect their population. we have a perfect illustration of this today with the commission's decision to lift the embargo on british beef and the refusal of france and germany to implement this decision. the french believe that if there are still 3,000 cases of mad cow disease in britain each year, despite all the precautions taken, there is something still not understood about the transmission of the disease. in these circumstances, our national agency for food safety, approved by the academy of medicine, has rightly concluded that france must maintain its embargo. if we did not have this national agency, and if we had replaced it with a european agency, as some people are now demanding, we would be deprived of objective information, and we would not even have expert opinions to justify our reluctance. however, the governments of the european countries, and particularly the french government, have put themselves in an impossible situation by adopting the treaty of amsterdam. the new article 95 of the directive, which amends the old article 100a, prevents any member state from taking measures derogating from community rules in the field of public health on its own initiative and obliges it to apply to the commission for any derogations, justifying its case by 'new scientific evidence'. it is clear that in the case of the mad cow we are not bringing forward any new scientific evidence in comparison with the evidence already in the commission's possession. we simply have a different appreciation of the precautionary principle: as often happens, the commission places a high priority on the free movement of products, and it is interesting to note that, for once, france places a higher priority on the food security of its citizens. the fact remains that the contradiction between the european decision to lift the embargo and the french refusal creates an intolerable situation, which proves, less than six months after the ratification of the treaty of amsterdam, the inconsistency of those who supported it. a few more cases like this, and the french may come to understand the usefulness of making the decisions that apply at home.
in writing. - i already had the opportunity to say this last march, i am in favour of a voluntarist energy policy. we must go beyond the declarations of intent we have heard during the decade, we must put the speeches into practice. only then will the european union work towards this. it must stimulate a movement for a rationalization of european energy policy. to this end, two strategies have been developed in two complementary multiannual programmes forming part of the framework programme for action in the energy sector: save ii (promoting more efficient use of energy) and altener ii (promoting renewable energies). the current aim is to continue these two programmes which already existed. the european parliament must use the co-decision power it has under the amsterdam treaty to improve them. as regards save ii, the council accepted a number of the amendments proposed by the european parliament at first reading. in addition, several amendments have taken account of recent council resolutions and the positions adopted at the kyoto conference. however, parliament wished to represent several amendments which were discussed in committee, notably the important one concerning the degree of improvement in energy efficiency. given that the energy efficiency of final consumption has so far improved by around 1% per year, the european commission recommends a further reduction of one percentage point in the energy efficiency of final demand. the rapporteur wanted a more ambitious target of more than 1.5%. i support this amendment even though i admit that we must somehow measure the possible negative impact on the competitiveness of companies, especially smes. to achieve this, it goes without saying that legislative measures must be adopted, even if they are only one instrument among others, and i am thinking in particular of economic sanctions. as regards altener ii, everyone knows the importance of res in reducing pollution and preserving natural resources. the difficulties encountered by these energies in entering the market and the reasons for this are also known: traditional energy sources are relatively cheap and stable; the lack of measures to promote res. i therefore support the amendments tabled by mr langen calling for the commission to play a more active role in encouraging a coordinated promotion strategy within the member states and in developing europe's export potential for renewable energy technologies. in the same vein, i believe it is essential that the renewable energy charter be adopted as soon as possible. the vote on these two reports is a pledge to the european citizens of the european union's will to protect the environment while reducing our energy dependence.
in writing. - the conclusion of the trade, development and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of south africa has just been approved by a large majority in our assembly. i can of course only welcome this agreement, which i naturally voted for. as a local councillor, one of my first acts as mayor of saint-benoît, réunion, was to name a town square after nelson mandela. it was 1983, and this purely symbolic gesture was a fraternal hand extended across the indian ocean to those who were languishing in the jails of apartheid. today, everyone can appreciate the importance of the path traveled. and this agreement, the conclusion of which we welcome, comes at the right time to consolidate definitively the process of democratic transition and economic and social stability which the republic of south africa has been undertaking for some years now. it is in line with the european union's tradition of solidarity. the establishment of a free trade area between two sets of different levels of development is even historic. it also completes the implementation of the union's strategy towards that country, a strategy which was defined, as we shall recall, under the french presidency. finally, it is probably worth noting that the partnership thus established with this large country in the south can help to create synergies which will be useful to the european union in the context of the delicate negotiations which will open up in the wto from the seattle conference in november. for all these reasons, we can only welcome the approval of this agreement. however, there is one point to which i would like to draw the attention of this parliament, the council and the commission: it is the influence that this liberalization of trade, even over a period of ten years, can have on the economic development of the outermost regions, and in particular of réunion, a european territory in full exercise located close to south africa. admittedly, i noted the existence of the provisions contained in article 23 (2) of the agreement, which provide for the possibility of recourse to surveillance or safeguard measures in the event of a serious deterioration in the economic development of the 'outermost regions of the european union'. however, it seems to me important, on the one hand, to have a thorough study carried out as soon as possible in order to determine as precisely as possible the possible impact of this agreement on the economy of réunion, and, on the other hand, to establish a permanent monitoring mechanism creating the conditions for rapid intervention. indeed, a lack of vigilance on our part would have dramatic consequences for réunion society, which is already heavily affected by unemployment (40% of the working population) and would be in total contradiction to the efforts made by the european union for many years, through the structural funds, to promote the economic and social development of the island. for these reasons, it seems to me important to draw the attention of this house to this essential aspect.
in writing. - the french, italian, portuguese and danish delegations to the union for europe of nations group voted against this free trade agreement between the european union and south africa. contrary to what the rapporteur states in his explanatory statement, this agreement is not based on the overall acceptance of all the parties. i would also like to point out the particular favourable character of south africa, and the main provisions of this agreement, which applies, let us recall, to a country whose gdp is closer to that of poland than that of its african neighbours: - europe will have to open its markets to 95% of south african exports within 10 years, while south africa will open its markets to 86% of european exports. - 75% of south african agricultural products will have easier access to the european market. - the european union will eliminate customs duties on 86% of the total volume of south african industrial exports to the european union. - products deemed sensitive by south africa will be placed on a reserve list. - a separate agreement on fisheries will be concluded, as will an agreement on wines and spirits. in my speech at the debate i personally put four questions to the commission concerning this specific agreement on wines and spirits and more specifically on annex 10. the answers given by commissioner nielson were very vague and i am personally very surprised to see that parliament has today given its green light to the signing of this free trade agreement, even though the principle of protection of designations of origin is not clearly recognised in the annex to the agreement and no guarantees have been given as to the evolution of zero-rate imports and their consequences for the whole of the european wine sector. i would remind you that we are currently importing 320 000 hectolitres of wine from south africa which, if this agreement is implemented, will be imported without any import tax. in conclusion, mr president, i am, like my group colleagues, very concerned about the development of these free trade agreements. for the first time, we are compensating a third country for misusing the terms defining our european protected designations of origin, in total contradiction to the trips agreements. this breach of international rules, irresponsibly inscribed in an agreement binding the european union, is a dangerous precedent which could be generalized to other states, in particular the new wine-producing countries (latin america, oceania, etc.) if they make a request to the european union. finally, mr president, i am concerned that this will lead to a proliferation of preferential agreements, even before the opening of wto negotiations, which will lead us to take the concept of the most favoured nation clause into account.
in writing. - i am against aid whose only objective is to re-establish a market economy and exploitation which means that not a penny will go to the population who will always live in the same misery. and just because parliament will hypocritically add the word 'social' to 'market economy' does not mean that it will change anything in the matter. furthermore, russia's record of aid under the imf can only make it more suspicious of what happens to the money of such aid.
in writing. - i'm abstaining on the resolution of compromise on aids. it is wrong to put my name on the joint motion for a resolution. i was not aware of the text as it was presented and i do not approve of it. i think it is unacceptable that the overwhelming responsibility of the governments of rich countries and of the pharmaceutical companies for the spread of this disease should be concealed.
in writing. - we must be sorry for the fate of a continent where 25 million people will die in the next ten years and which is experiencing, because of aids, an unprecedented economic and social decline. the resolutions tabled by the various political groups are full of good intentions, but also of great naivety. you condemn the 'selfishness' of an industry which only follows the rules of the economic and commercial game which you have at best accepted and at worst helped to establish. you also condemned the west's indifference and lack of aid to africa in the fight against aids. but you don't even have the courage of emma tuahepa who dared to ask african governments what they had done and what they are still doing with african money. nor did you note that none of the eleven african heads of state announced for the conference had deigned to attend or stressed the importance of cultural and religious factors in the spread of the plague. in the world of gatt and the european union, you seem to find that commercial and financial values have taken precedence over politics. africa will not emerge from this human catastrophe with solutions from outside alone. it needs not only the political will of its own leaders but also the participation of the entire population. there is no denying africa's financial needs. the point is to be clear: the western financial manna alone, some of which, as usual, will end up in private bank accounts, will not be enough to stem the epidemic. it is necessary, but it is not sufficient. and it is all the more necessary because the people of our countries are also in danger. because our own leaders are irresponsible. by refusing to stop immigration to europe, by refusing to control it seriously, by refusing to impose systematic aids testing on immigration candidates from these african countries, you are exposing europeans not only to hiv, but also to a number of opportunistic diseases, such as tuberculosis, which had been eradicated from our continent.
- mr president, on the turkish question we heard this morning some rather startling statements by mr verheugen, the commissioner responsible for enlargement. already at his hearing last month he said that turkey's candidacy should be reviewed at the helsinki council next december and that he would personally support it. this morning, mr verheugen has relapsed. he said that the helsinki council should give turkey candidate status and that it should then be treated like all other candidates for membership. it is true that turkey should, as such, meet the criteria set by the copenhagen european council, including the existence of stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, human rights and respect for minorities. of course, for the time being, turkey is far from meeting this criterion. but the fact remains that, according to mr verheugen's rather embarrassing speech, turkey should be granted candidate status in order to be able, in time, to join the european union. however, while we consider it necessary to associate turkey with the union in order to avoid an islamist drift in that country, we consider it impossible to integrate it directly into the structures of the union as they exist today, as the european parliament has just asked for. we do not think it is possible to integrate into a superstate in the process of being formed a profoundly different country which, in the very near future, will have the largest population and therefore, no doubt, the largest number of votes in the council and the largest number of members in our assembly. we wonder what turkey would do with this power when we see the real blackmail to which we were subjected on the occasion of the offer made to it to participate in the european conference. we also believe that it is impossible to extend to turkey the area of free movement of persons which is currently enjoyed by the countries of the union. in fact, the turkish question is now highlighting the inadequacy of the union's structures to enlargement. it is impossible to integrate turkey into a european superstate. on the other hand, it should be possible to link it to a europe with variable geometry, respecting sovereignty and national borders.
in writing. - turkey is a large country and a leading partner of the european union. as such, any position taken with regard to its accession to the union must be serious and responsible. this is what makes me say that if turkey wants (again) to join the union and not merely negotiate the best possible partnership in the best possible balance of forces, then we must seriously discuss with it on the basis of precise conditions: - respect for democratic principles and the rules governing human rights in the european union; - economic rapprochement and respect for the rules of healthy competition without dumping or unfair manoeuvres; - a rapid democratic solution to the kurdish question with very rapid 'clear signs'; - military evacuation of the occupied part of the republic of cyprus. today turkey seems to be on a more positive path and therefore we must discuss it without any ulterior motive or blindness. i am not personally very optimistic, either about turkey's real willingness to join us or about its ability to meet the conditions quickly.
in writing. - on the occasion of the debate and vote on the relaunch of the middle east peace process, i would like to congratulate the israeli and palestinian partners on their courage and tenacity. i also want to express my satisfaction at seeing mr ehud barak keep his campaign promises and return to the path traced by mr itzak rabin. i want to assure my israeli friends of our support in this endeavour. i hope that europe will show the intelligence and tolerance to let the negotiators negotiate and avoid playing the role of 'lecturer' whenever there are more or less serious difficulties. the path is laid out. it won't be easy. he's full of shit. however, there are no other possibilities and in the end there will be two states with guarantees on each side of respect for the other. i've always been confident. today, of course, i am even more so and i support israel more than ever in its efforts.
- mr president, i agree with my colleague mr lannoye that we need rules, but the question is which ones. unfortunately, all the indications we have point to the desire to make the future wto negotiations a new stage in the process of imposing the rules of liberalisation on a global scale. the european commission announced in its july communication that it wanted to liberalise new services, such as health and education, but also investment and public procurement. this wave of liberalization is of course justified in the name of the general interest and employment, as you said, mr lamy, at your hearing, when you said that the gradual opening up of markets, both for goods and services, is in the community's interest. however, the results of the liberalization that has been launched in marrakesh will not allay the fears you mentioned earlier. has the union made a serious assessment of marrakesh? what i see is the impoverishment of the poorest countries and, in our case, the spread of unemployment and precariousness, which go hand in hand with huge profits. there are large mergers and acquisitions happening at the moment, at european and global level. yesterday and today, michelin employees were here in this parliament to illustrate in a dramatic way this concept which governs relations at european and world level. financial profitability first. but where are the humans ? where 's the thought ? where is nature ? where 's the solidarity ? i do not think that the choice is between liberalization and protectionism. what reassures me is that the rejection of the ami has indeed shown the possibility of intervention. a front may develop to demand a change of direction. for example, our parliament adopted an amendment by my group calling for a review of the wto mechanisms, the regulatory procedure, in order to take better account of social, health, cultural and environmental issues. today, 1,800 organisations are calling us, asking for changes to the system. the developing countries are calling for a revision of the previous agreement. i also welcome the fact that an intergroup on wto matters has recently met. my group and i took the initiative of organising an open meeting on these issues during the november part-session. many people expect the european union to affirm in these negotiations the values of cooperation, solidarity and the preeminence of human beings over market values and the dictates of the market.
- mr president-in-office of the council, mr president, mr commissioner, the commission's communication to the national parliaments is extremely revealing both of the profoundly undemocratic machinery of the main european institution and of the conditions under which the new chapter of multilateral trade negotiations will begin. the commission has been emphatically asserting that the gatt and wto system has contributed for the past 50 years to stability and continued economic growth, with all the benefits that flow from it. a malicious mind might first of all point out to the commission that this sentence is a false alarm, since we thought - god knows if our ears are closed to hearing it - that it was to the construction of europe that we owed for 50 years stability, economic growth, the peaceful settlement of disputes, etc., but a mind that is simply curious might ask the commission what it thinks of the continuing decline, decade by decade, in the average annual growth rate of the developed countries. according to an oecd report, the average annual growth rate of oecd countries was +5.2% from 1961 to 1969, +3.9% from 1970 to 1979, +2.6% from 1980 to 1989, +2.1% from 1990 to 1996. these statistics do not support, to say the least, the idea that the gradual dismantling of trade barriers, following eight rounds of negotiations from the early 1950s to 1994, has fostered economic growth. it is therefore too much to ask the commission to give us the precise econometric studies on which it bases its present recommendation to carry out a new round of dismantling, as mr lamy has said. would it be improper to ask the commission whether it has also taken the time to check whether any projections it may have made at the time of the launch of the uruguay round have been realised? can you give us any written documents, encrypted, sourced, dated? it is strange to say the least that the commission in brussels, at the very moment when it is calling on the member states to give the green light to relaunch, all business being closed, a new round of multilateral trade negotiations, does not feel the need to make an objective assessment of the wto, and in particular of its dispute settlement system. would the commission have more modesty than our friends on the other side of the atlantic who regularly weigh the pros and cons of a procedure? you called this procedure your vows. it should be noted that in reality it is mainly the americans who have a certain number of successes in the system that has been put in place. i shall not go into detail, given the short time i have. i would like to say this, however: unless one is blind and unaware of what is being said and what is happening across the atlantic, one can only be struck and stunned by the concordance of the terms used by the commission and the words of president clinton. the opening of a new round of multilateral trade negotiations is first and foremost a decision of the president of the united states of america, who set the tempo - i translate: an accelerated negotiation, a tight agenda - set the objectives ... (the president cut off the speaker)
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our citizens have understood that the agreements reached in the millennium round will have a profound impact on their personal and professional lives. the uruguay round had put producers and consumers in front of a fait accompli. let's not do this again. look outside. farmers are rightly concerned about their future and it is our duty to listen to them. we have been exposed to repeated food scandals, the dictates of the retail industry and the european desire to help the agricultural world. it is the whole logic of globalisation ordered by a few that must now be called into question. otherwise the millennium round will be the death knell of our farmers, our countryside and our land, and we cannot accept that. these negotiations must be aimed at the promotion and development of our peoples and not simply at the defence of major financial interests. we must get out of this ultra-free trade logic that standardizes the market. it does not guarantee the just defence and promotion of our european interests because they are primarily local, regional and national. it is up to us to ensure the sustainability of our jobs, our production and our quality of life. europe will then find a justification for this. the news is that we are subject to retaliatory measures, when we are only trying to protect... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this new round of negotiations raises a question of principle, a question of method and a question of substance. first of all, the principle of a new cycle, why do it? we've had tokyo, kennedy, nixon, uruguay, and more. has humanity won ? if the cycles had not happened, would we have been poorer? the ami has not been signed, the transatlantic agreement has not been concluded! there was no catastrophe. on the other hand, the gatt was signed in marrakesh and there are still 18 million unemployed in europe. nafta was signed and mexico was bled. scientifically, free trade is like central bank independence. there is no scientific proof that it's good or bad. this is not a matter of science, but of belief. basically, it's as if the church of worldology were to meet in seattle on november 30th. so the method is important. the council must monitor the commission's mandate, the states must monitor it and public opinion must monitor it, so as not to repeat blair house. it was because in france the sickle revolted against the mac do that the millennium came out of hiding. in the background, of course, there will be a lot of questions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the establishment of a european network of information centres, the european network of information centres, etc. europe will undoubtedly get labels, traceability, it will be able to play with blue boxes and green boxes, but it will give up on the essential, that is, internal support for farmers and on community preference. mr lamy, you did not even say the word 'community preference', which is why we have reservations about this cycle. cycling is a cyclist's activity. the only problem is that it is the people who are pedaling and it is the poorest who are often the ones who are burned out. but it is true that one always has enough strength to bear the ills of others !
- mr president, agriculture will therefore still be one of the major issues in the forthcoming wto negotiations, and our european institutions seem to agree on the whole to recognise our european agricultural model, to protect the consumer, and to consider the berlin agreement as the framework for the commission's negotiating mandate. the only thing left to do now is to take advantage of our consistency vis-à-vis our competitors and our wto partners. in this sense, let us be clear, everything that is done to inform, sensitize and mobilize our public opinion will strengthen the determination of our negotiators in the eyes of the cairns group, the usa or the developing countries. already, we see that the pressure from our civil society can have a contagious effect on our competitors. the evidence of this is what is happening in the united states today, for example, with regard to gmos. it is therefore necessary, by prolonging the phenomenon, and in order to create a favourable balance of forces within the wto, to debate and communicate throughout europe on the meaning to be given to globalisation and the liberalisation of trade. for us europeans, the aim of this globalisation must be to reconcile economic competitiveness with a more balanced, more sustainable and better distributed overall development, particularly between the north and the south. in the case of agriculture, a fair system of trade in agricultural products should be established, which is market-oriented, but also takes into account broader considerations of public health, the environment, employment and territorial balance. it is in the light of these objectives that an interim review of the implementation of the marrakesh agreements should be carried out without delay. furthermore, mr president-in-office, commissioner, these issues will naturally have to be the basis of the principle of the agreement as a whole, which should prevail in the negotiations.
- mr president, yesterday we had a debate here on the strengthening of food security in europe, while conflicts over the precautionary principle have developed within the union and at the same time the americans are pursuing unjustified reprisals. the situation in the agricultural and agri-food sectors has worsened in recent years, when we were theoretically under the umbrella of the uruguay round and the marrakesh agreements, which were supposed to ensure and organise market access, export and internal support. so you will understand, commissioner, our concern at the apparent lack of a common view within the union before the start of the negotiations, while the united states seems very determined in its opposition to the european aid system, while elegantly dispensing with flexibility payments. in fact, negotiations can only begin in earnest if we succeed in forcing our partners and competitors to recognise the european agricultural model. it is this model, based on community preference, which guarantees the quality of products, food security, the survival and growth of our agricultural and agri-food sectors. we have noted with satisfaction, commissioner, both your replies to the committee and your remarks at the beginning of this sitting. but we would like to know what the american reaction is to the european positions in favour of extending the peace clause beyond 2003. could you also tell us whether the united states is asking for compensation or for the disappearance of the green and blue boxes which amused mr martinez very much, but which are absolutely essential for our farmers? finally, could you tell us whether you consider the conclusions of the berlin council on the reform of the cap to be an intangible foundation for you or whether they are likely to be threatened by the new negotiations?
mr president, i would first like to ask the council and the presidency a question on transparency: when will the european parliament be informed of the draft final declaration which the finnish presidency has tabled on the council's table? this long and detailed document is reportedly currently being discussed within the council and between the council and the commission. this is the real negotiating mandate which the council is about to give to the commission. we would like parliament to be really involved in the preparation of the negotiating mandate and to have the reference text for that purpose. secondly, i would like to mention one of the most important points of the future negotiation: the question of services. all services cannot be placed on the same level. for example, we do not consider men's health to be a commodity. some services must remain public services or services of general interest. i'm also thinking about education. in other parts of the world, some have made a different choice and sometimes you are asked for your bank card at the hospital entrance before you are treated. it is a choice, but it is not ours and we do not want that tomorrow in europe, the entry of services into the wto will require that the rules of competition and market opening govern sectors such as health and education. it would be the dismantling of our social model. it would be a shift from a market economy to a market society. the best guarantee for our public services is to place them clearly and immediately outside the scope of negotiation, as was done for the cultural exception. i would like to conclude - and this is not without a connection - on the question of investment. i would remind you that the european parliament has spoken out against ami, and what we rejected yesterday when it came from the oecd should not be allowed to re-enter the wto today. (applause) i would like to thank
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- doc. b5-0142/1999 by mr maaten and mr väyrynen, on behalf of the eldr group, on chechnya; - b5-0149/1999 by mr schori and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the alarming situation in chechnya; - b5-0158/1999 by mr markov and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation in chechnya; - b5-0168/1999 by mr schroedter and others, on behalf of the green group, on the war in chechnya; - b5-0177/1999 by mr oostlander and mr posselt, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the violence in the north caucasus.
the commission is aware of the fact that the situation in the caucasus is very serious. if we do what is proposed here, if we engage directly in this matter, we risk not being able to strengthen the stability of the region. we must do what is possible, so i will not commit myself to the specific actions proposed here. we will have to find many different - perhaps unexpected - solutions to the logistical problems in order to bring aid to people in need, but i find it difficult to promise any particular action in this particular case.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- b5-0143/1999 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the european union code of conduct on the export or transfer of arms; - b5-0152/1999 by mr van den berg and mr howitt, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the first annual revision of the european union code of conduct on the export or transfer of arms; - b5-0157/1999 by mr morgantini and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the european union code of conduct on the export or transfer of arms; - b5-0163/1999 by mr mckenna and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the european union code of conduct on the export or transfer of arms; - b5-0175/1999 by mr morillon and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the export or transfer of arms
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think i need three minutes to tell you how much the resolution on the arms export code, which is before us for our approval, deals with a subject which is fundamental to the extension of an area of peace and stability throughout the world, which is certainly one of the most important mandates we have received from our electors. i only regret that it was examined under the hurried procedure, and therefore we were not given time for a thorough consideration, and god knows she deserved it. i fear that she may be content with noble and generous proposals, but that some of them may not be of much practical value. i would like to draw the attention of our colleagues to the risks to the credibility of our parliament posed by the excessive use of this emergency procedure, especially when it comes, as in this case, to examining a text drawn up by an external body.
the commission has now been in existence for one year. the first annual report acknowledges that the initial experiences of the member states since its implementation during this period have been conclusive. the code has brought greater consistency to member states' policies, established an effective consultation mechanism and encouraged dialogue on the implementation of its provisions. the statistics in the report show the great interest shown by the member states in the success of the code consultation mechanism. however, there is no denying that there are reasons to believe that there is a need to strengthen the code and its enforcement. the annual review process aims to identify possible improvements. however, amendments to the code obviously all have to be supported by all the member states. as regards the role of the commission, i would point out that the member states have so far, in accordance with article 296, excluded the arms trade from the scope of the treaty regulation, thus preventing any community action. the ultimate responsibility for arms exports therefore lies with national governments. the arms trade is currently being dealt with in the context of the common foreign and security policy, in which the commission is of course fully involved. finally, the commission would like to extend the approval of the predominant principles of the code so that the world's main arms exporters are concerned.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: moratorium on the death penalty - b5-0144/1999 by mr thors and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the vote on a resolution by the united nations general assembly on the establishment of a universal moratorium on capital punishment; - b5-0155/1999 by mr schori, on behalf of the pse group, on the vote by the united nations general assembly on a resolution on the establishment of a universal moratorium on capital punishment; - b5-0169/1999 by mr frassoni and mr wuori, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the establishment of a universal moratorium on executions by the united nations general assembly; - b5-0171/1999 by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra and mrs grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the vote on a resolution by the united nations general assembly on the establishment of a universal moratorium on capital punishment. b5-0145/1999 by mr maaten, on behalf of the eldr group, on the conflict between communities on the moluccas in indonesia; - b5-0153/1999 by mr schori and mr wiersma, on behalf of the pse group, on human rights violations in indonesia and in particular in the moluccas; - b5-0167/1999 by mr lagendijk and others, on behalf of the green group, on human rights violations in the moluccas; - b5-0172/1999 by mrs maij-weggen and mr costa neves, on behalf of the epp group, on serious human rights violations in the moluccas; - belarus: b5-0146/1999 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the disappearance of mr victor gonchar and the situation in belarus; - b5-0154/1999 by mr schori and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in belarus; - b5-0164/1999 by mr schroedter and others, on behalf of the green group, on the political and human rights situation in belarus; - b5-0173/1999 by mr wijkman and others, on behalf of the epp group, on the disappearance and imprisonment of parliamentarians in belarus. situation of the roma in kosovo - b5-0147/1999 by mrs ludford and mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the ill-treatment of the roma and serbs in the new republic of kosovo; - b5-0151/1999 by mr schori, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation of the roma in kosovo; - b5-0166/1999 by mr staes and mr sörensen, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the ill-treatment of the roma and serbs in the new republic of kosovo; - b5-0174/1999 by mrs pack and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the situation of roma civilians in kosovo. moratorium on the death penalty
- mr president, it is high time that we adopted a universal moratorium on the death penalty, this veritable administrative murder, as albert camus said. this is the whole point of our resolution to the un general assembly. i would like to focus, as my colleague does, on the urgency of intervening to save moumia abu jamal. moumia is the black american journalist who was sentenced to death in 1982 following a police plot and a sham trial. the supreme court just dismissed his appeal. after 17 years on death row, moumia is now at the mercy of a death warrant that the governor of pennsylvania can legally sign at any time. at a time when a us study reveals racial disparities in the administration of the death penalty in philadelphia, the us government would be honoured to take a stand against this flagrant violation of the international covenant on civil and political rights. the shock to public opinion and the strong international mobilization, in which parliament had played a full part, had already prevented the application of the first implementing mandate, signed on 2 june 1995. today the threat is serious. it's an emergency. the so-called voice of the voiceless and the peacemaker is in danger. all the positions, the demonstrations, the resolutions, will help to prevent the irreparable, to prevent this voice from being extinguished.
- i will vote for the resolution calling for the abolition of the barbaric death penalty. i also ask the house to take an urgent stand against the execution of the black american journalist moumia abu jamal. moumia abu jamal fought against racism and for the dignity of blacks by denouncing in her articles the abuses and corruption of the philadelphia police and, more generally, institutional racism. arrested by the same police who had accused him without proof of the murder of one of his own, he was sentenced to death following a rigged trial, using falsified evidence and bribed witnesses. it has now been 17 years since he was on death row, 17 years of claiming his innocence and fighting for a retrial. moumia abu jamal may be executed at any moment, as his appeal to the us supreme court has just been rejected. the united states is a signatory to the international covenant on civil and political rights, the convention against racial discrimination and the convention against torture, which apply in moumia's case, since the racial factor was a major factor in his trial and seventeen years on death row is, according to those treaties, an unjust form of punishment that amounts to torture. i therefore call on the house to vote not only on the resolution against the death penalty but also on the amendment adding the following paragraph: 'the european parliament urges the governor of pennsylvania to refrain from signing any new execution warrant against moumia abu jamal and renews the request for a review of his trial.'
- mr president, a nuclear accident always provokes reactions of emotion, fear and even irrational terror. what happened in chernobyl has been on people's minds for a long time. but in tokaimura the japanese authorities themselves acknowledged that safety procedures were not respected at both the conversion plant and the fuel production facilities. unfortunately, this is not an unforeseeable accident. beyond our sympathetic and friendly response to the families affected by this tragedy, what are the lessons and consequences that we should draw from this accident? the first lesson, of course, is that it is imperative that the european and national authorities in each of our states ensure that safety procedures are followed. secondly, and this seems very clear to me, the iaea must intervene more regularly, not only to check the wording of regulations, which it does too much, but also to do what it does not do enough, which is to go on the ground and check that these regulations are actually being applied. in the tokaimura case, the iaea should in any event request the japanese authorities not to allow the resumption of reprocessing activities until a thorough investigation has been conducted and public and transparent findings have been made. in any case, we in the european parliament feel that it is more necessary than ever for the european commission, within the framework of its euratom powers, to help japan in the present situation, but also to ask the euratom services to make a full analysis of all the official safety regulations at our plants and around the plants in europe to see whether all the safety conditions are being met; the commission has also been asked whether emergency procedures can be added in the case of regrettable human negligence, which is much worse, at least in recent years, than the unforeseeable accident which, by definition, can cause terror. we are in favour, mr president, of the use of nuclear energy and we know that in the european union the safety regulations and conditions are stricter and more respected. we are told anyway that, for example, the possibility of starting a nuclear chain reaction because of the improper handling of an operator is practically impossible in europe. that's what happened in tokaimura. we want to avoid two pitfalls, mr president. on the one hand, unconditional and unchecked support for nuclear energy. but also, and on the other hand, what some people do too much: the manipulation of public opinion to spread irrational fears and terrors well known a thousand years ago. these were the famous millennial fears of the year 1000. today, these are the fears as we approach the year 2000. no, nuclear does not kill any more than a conventional source like coal has or still kills. that is the meaning of our resolution today.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because there is an urgent need for the european union to take concrete decisions to combat the greenhouse effect. however, the reference in recital g to 'flexibility mechanisms' is unacceptable to me, since the principle of organising a market for polluting rights would be scandalous. the 'right to pollute' cannot be bought and a payment or exchange cannot free the richest from making every possible effort to respect the common law. they should have the greatest means of complying with the constraints necessary to improve the environment. every effort must be made to ensure that each actor reduces its pollution as much as possible by ensuring that the minimum effort set is achieved by all. market regulation cannot replace the requirement of equal rights - and therefore duties - for all. it is a major choice of society that should be the foundation of european identity. but here again we are making serious concessions to american and liberal conceptions which have proved ineffective in protecting the planet and their unequal effects. europe was not able to prevent the adoption of this principle in kyoto, but it is not obliged to implement it in its own country. i hope she can resist it eventually.
in writing. - the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in rich countries is a duty of solidarity with future generations, but also with the people of developing countries who will increasingly suffer the natural disasters caused by global warming. the kyoto protocol sets targets in this respect, but they are still very limited. only radical public interventions would protect the environment. in each country, action must be taken without waiting for hypothetical international agreements. the question of road transport is one example. it also shows the need to go beyond the national framework and develop a european-wide strategy to combat it.
- i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 7 october 1999. adoption of the minutes of the previous sitting - composition of parliament - composition of political groups - composition of delegations - submission of documents - submission of committees - transmission by the council of texts of agreements - petitions: see minutes.
- i don't see your intervention as part of the rules. i think it was a procedural motion which was not a procedural motion. nevertheless, i take your wise advice.
- the agenda calls for the examination of the final draft agenda as drawn up by the conference of presidents, in accordance with rule 110. as regards thursday:
- the liberal, democratic and reformist group has asked for the commission's statement on british beef to be brought forward to thursday. i would point out that we decided at the conference of presidents to set this debate for friday, of course to take account of the meeting of experts scheduled for the day before, i.e. thursday. i do not wish to prejudge the decision of the house, but i would like to make this clarification.
- mr watson, thank you very much. first of all, i would ask you to convey to mrs lynne my deepest regrets and best wishes for a speedy recovery. there are two aspects to this: we already had the problem of the elevators; as far as the stairs are concerned, this is another matter and we will check it. i'd like to go in order, because i'm not sure i understand. i have two requests, the first is that the debate scheduled for friday be moved forward to thursday. this is the request which you should have supported on behalf of your group in the first place, and i therefore give you the floor.
- in other words, if i understand you correctly, you are withdrawing your request to move the debate, given the argument i have put forward. but you are maintaining your request for motions for resolutions to be tabled at the end of the debate. does anyone wish to speak against this request?
- ladies and gentlemen, i have therefore before me a request from the liberal group for motions for resolutions to be tabled and voted on at the end of the debate on british beef. (parliament rejected the request)
- i have the great pleasure of warmly greeting mr dehaene, who has given us the honour of being in the gallery and is therefore attending our debate before speaking himself on wednesday. (applause from the left)
- i have a request from the group of the european people's party to move the oral question on the eu-morocco fisheries agreement to thursday. this is currently on the agenda for friday. who would like to support this request?
- is there anyone who wishes to speak against this request from the european people's party? it is not, and i can confirm that the agenda for thursday would allow for such an introduction. (parliament agreed to the request) the oral question is therefore placed at the end of thursday's agenda. (parliament adopted the agenda as amended)
- absolutely, mrs pack, i can assure you that the council will be present and that we have conveyed parliament's request to it.
- thank you, mrs flemming. we will look very closely at this matter and i would be very happy to consider an intervention in the way you wish.
- thank you, mrs. plooij-van gorsel. - i know. i thank you for bringing this to my attention again. we shall see when that can be done. i thought it was. i had wanted to and i had insisted. i think that things have not yet been done for technical reasons, but i promise you that i will see to it that they are rectified as soon as possible.
- madam president, i would like to make a point of order because members have just received a directory apparently published by the american chamber of commerce in belgium, which lists members of the european parliament with their references. but when i read my references to it, as well as those of several members of my group, i do not see the name of my party or my group, the europe of nations, but a totally subjective assessment: nationalist, anti-european union. i think it is a little strange, madam president, that it is the americans who are distinguishing between the good and the bad europeans. it is even more curious that the secretary-general of the european parliament, perhaps unknowingly violating the duty of reservation, should give a preface to this yearbook in which he praises it, and in which i read in particular that it is a useful reference for the business community, that it even provides a genuine public service! madam president, i believe that the good faith of the secretary-general has been abused. he didn 't see all the details in that directory ! could he write to the authors of this directory to say that he does not use these subjective terms and to ask for a correction? otherwise, i would obviously be forced to consider that there was indeed a breach of the duty to reserve. (applause) i would like to thank
- i promise you will read this brochure very carefully and if it is indeed necessary to make this correction, we will gladly consider it.
- mr chichester, i can tell you that the report has been placed on the agenda for the november part-session in strasbourg. i thought that suited you, and i see that it does.
- you can imagine that it is not for me to answer you.
- i think your request raises another technical problem, one which we shall examine, but which seems to me to be more difficult to solve than that of mrs plooij-van gorsel.
- the agenda calls for the report by mr napolitano, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on possible amendments to the regulation following the interinstitutional agreement of 25 may 1999 on internal investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
- madam president, my group fully endorses the interinstitutional agreement of 25 may 1999 on internal investigations which the anti-fraud office must be able to carry out in the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the communities, including the european parliament. we think this is an excellent agreement. we must react strongly to any suspicion of fraud. but we are a little more perplexed by the implementing measure concerning the european parliament which is being proposed to us today and which is in the form of an amendment to the rules of procedure of our assembly which concerns both officials and members. it seems to me that we have gone both too fast and not fast enough. not quickly enough because, as far as officials are concerned, it seems to me that it was pointless to wait until the end of october to take an implementing decision applying to parliament's staff, a simple decision by the bureau on the basis of rule 22 (5) of the rules of procedure might have been sufficient. but perhaps we have also gone too fast with regard to the members of parliament, and here i plead guilty before mr napolitano, the chairman of the constitutional committee, since i am a member of that committee, but perhaps the debate in plenary will enable us to make up for some of the omissions. we should have thought it strange - this does not exist in many parliamentary democracies - that the elected members of the assembly could be controlled by a body which is more or less dependent on the executive and, in this case, even though olaf is controlled by an independent monitoring committee, it is at the same time headed by an official appointed by the commission. this remark should bring us back to the interpretation of recital 4 and article 1 of the interinstitutional agreement, which define the persons whose misconduct may be the subject of administrative investigations by olaf. the staff covered by the staff regulations are officials and other servants of the communities and, i quote, 'members, officials and other staff of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the communities not subject to the staff regulations'. i believe that this wording and in particular the mention of the statute show that the members and staff in question are employees rather than elected officials. moreover, members of the european parliament are subject to a separate statute under the treaty itself. therefore, madam president, i believe that members should be subjected to a rigorous system of internal control - and i am the first to say this - but i do not believe that the text which will put this control in place should simply be set apart from the standard decision applying to the whole range of community administrations. we need a specific decision for members which could perhaps provide, for example, for parliamentary inquiries, a separate supervisory board, which would be elected by our assembly at the beginning of each parliamentary term. this text would naturally be included in an annex to our rules of procedure, whereas the text concerning civil servants would not need to be included. however, if our colleagues thought that it was politically impossible to postpone the adoption of the current draft - and i am not far from agreeing with them - i believe that we should still put a reform in motion fairly quickly.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that it is a great honour for me to speak today. i have been in this parliament for ten years and i have never had the opportunity to speak for 15 minutes, which, given my temperament, was a long frustration that ends today! i would like to say to you, mr president, madam president-in-office, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a strange business to prepare a budget for the european union. what kind of budget is this, based on the principle that the budgetary authority and parliament vote on expenditure but not on revenue? what budget is it that makes it necessary to distinguish between two clearly defined categories of expenditure, one - compulsory expenditure - which is arbitrated by an authority, the council, and the other - non-compulsory expenditure - which is arbitrated by parliament? this distinction is obviously absurd. what is this budget which so binds the budgetary authority by legislative acts that certain figures, certain amounts expressed in legislative acts and programmes are so binding that they tend to reduce the budgetary procedure to a collection of legislative arbitrations already carried out? so the situation is strange to say the least. but this is a more strange affair than making a budget within the framework of the interinstitutional agreement and the budgetary perspective that we have. we are working within the framework of the financial perspective agreed in berlin. however, the least that can be said is that the programming exercise that took place there was rather strange firstly in its duration (programming for seven years in two council days was perhaps risky) and uncertain in its amounts. we now find that, regardless of how needs are approached, there is a very uncertain match between budgetary forecasts and the reality of these needs. in category i, 'agricultural expenditure, support for markets', we are already at the marginal limit; in category iv, 'external actions' - we shall come back to this - the category is literally exploding. in category v, we do not know what the administrative reform of the commission will cost, but we see the problem of pensions looming with great concern, without the appropriate expenditure having been planned; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. already, countries such as cyprus and malta are in a precarious situation. so the budgetary programming exercise was uncertain, but also very restrictive for the european parliament because, for the first time, we are working in a framework where we have obtained, ladies and gentlemen, less flexibility in exchange for not more money as before, but less money. the situation is therefore paradoxical. the matter becomes downright surreal when we approach the 2000 budget year, because the european union is experiencing a real contradiction. on the one hand, the treaty of amsterdam and the implementation of the single currency create new burdens, on the other hand, the planned enlargement does indeed imply an additional financial effort. finally, the increasing responsibilities of the union, particularly in the field of kosovo, are also creating tensions, much greater pressures on the budget. but faced with this situation, institutions, notably the council - i wonder what the commission will do in the end - tell us: we are going to finance more policies, with more partners, assume more responsibilities with less money. i say, mr president, that there is a paradox, a contradiction, which parliament does not want to accept. that is the framework in which we find ourselves. because the 2000 budget is obviously both the story of the paradox i have just mentioned - how to finance more with less money - and also, i hope, the rejection of this paradox by parliament. how do institutions try to deal with this paradox? well, by two very simple and equally reprehensible methods: the first is to reduce spending, and the second is to sacrifice traditional priorities in favour of new ones. the draft budget which the council has submitted to us, and which we reject, seems to me to be very worrying in this respect. when i say cutting expenditure, i am thinking, for example, of expenditure in category i for which a cut has been proposed. the commission has already taken the wrong path, perhaps it regrets it a little today? we are being offered linear reductions which do not correspond to reality. same goes for payments. as regards the structural funds, we have considerable payment needs, due both to the implementation of the new agenda 2000 system and to the enormous weight of the past. this moan, which is the moan of the dying - excuse me, it is untranslatable for the interpreters, moan means remaining to be liquidated - is therefore the remaining to be liquidated of programs of past years, which are expiring. all this involves considerable effort in terms of payment and, on this point, the council does not follow us and does not follow the commission, and proposes a reduction which is totally unacceptable in relation to the apb. the commission, which has shown a certain hesitation on this issue in recent months, seems to have recently returned to a better mood, and we welcome this. so on the one hand we have a reduction in expenditure and appropriations for actual and future needs. the same applies to expenditure in category v. at the same time, yesterday's and today's priorities are being sacrificed - and this is unacceptable - in favour of tomorrow's priorities. i think there's something very wrong with that. in category 4 the council proposes something which is absolutely unacceptable, namely linear cuts without any justification. i would like to stress that we would understand very well that cuts should be made if they were at least justified, but that is not the case. we were told: "we must finance kosovo, morocco, timor, turkey". timor and turkey are not yet in the draft budget, but we shall see them there. we are told: "we must finance this and in return we will cut all traditional development spending for africa, asia and latin america". parliament says no. we will not accept that africa, latin america and asia, everyone but europe, pay for kosovo. this is unacceptable. (applause) i would like to thank more generally, we consider it important that the council should commit itself to this type of approach in the future, because, let us not be mistaken, we must structurally assume new responsibilities. and we cannot hope to make the balkans pay structurally, sustainably, for example, through enlargement, etc. no, we're not getting out of this. you will not fit the foot of berthe the big-footed, mother of charlemagne, into cinderella's shoe. that's not possible. the size of the shoe must be adjusted to the needs we have to cover. that's the situation as we see it. we are waiting for the commission to take a decision on this. the commission's apb obviously did not take into account a number of expenditures, but it was very clear. the question now is whether the commission will defend it. i would caution you, commissioner, against a proposal that could be made to substantially reduce your own apb, because it would be serious if the commission did not even defend its own policy. we would be in an even more paradoxical situation, which i am prepared to accept, namely that parliament would be the defender of the commission's preliminary draft budget, replacing the commission as the guardian of the major policies decided by the european union. i'm warning you about this. this could be serious. what is the reaction of parliament ? parliament's response is simple. he refuses to do that. it considers that the new priorities must be addressed. there are essentially two: first, we must deal with the consequences of the institutional crisis we experienced last winter at the administrative level. this implies active support and even an active demand for administrative reform to the commission. all the provisions on bat are aimed at this, as are all the appropriations for olaf. the call for the creation of a new administrative instrument, a kind of implementing agency or decentralised implementation unit, is a real need. we have had contacts with the commission which seem to have been fruitful. we expect actions after we hear words. on the international level, our second priority is indeed to finance, in one way or another, the major priorities: kosovo with 500 million, the agreement on morocco with 125 million, the programmes for turkey and timor with 50 and 30 million. we voted in this respect an amendment which reflects a strong political commitment of this parliament, even if we vote for it above category 4, which means that it does not have the status of an amendment at the moment, but it reflects a commitment of this house to vote on these appropriations at second reading, particularly as regards the agreement for morocco which is a political priority of this parliament. the second approach adopted by the european parliament is not to sacrifice traditional priorities. that is why we have overwhelmingly rejected all the linear cuts proposed by the council and we believe that we must meet the needs of planning, development, international development, social action and environmental policy. we must face all these expenditure with great energy and we must not accept to sacrifice them. i have not mentioned that there is one essential point: research in the context of administrative reform. we are waiting for the agreement in the pipeline between the commission and parliament to be put into practice and formalised in writing in order to ensure a better budgetary use of the appropriations for this subsection. so we're dealing with new priorities, we're not sacrificing traditional priorities. this implies, and this is the crux of the problem, that, thirdly, we fully respect the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement, but in a dynamic way. we respect that agreement. we respect all the ceilings in all categories and even leave substantial margins in some of them, such as category 1b 'rural development'. but we want a dynamic interpretation, in line with what has been said, and in particular we want a structural revision of category 4 that is sustainable, not annual. there are new expenses, we have to cover them. these are not annual expenditures, they are sustainable. this must be reflected in a net increase in appropriations for section iv over the whole period and not just in the 2000 budget. this is a requirement of this parliament and i hope that it will be taken fully into account by the commission and the council. how are we gonna get out of this? the council has time to reflect and to choose the means: time to reflect, since we are meeting on 25 november - at st catherine's, every tree takes root, and i hope the budgetary tree will take root - and the choice of means is yours, madam president - and yours, because i know that you cannot do everything and i regret it - to choose between two paths: the revision of the financial perspectives for category 4 which will enable us to vote on this budget in the face of the new priorities in accordance with the commitments made when this agreement was negotiated. if you do not want to go down this road, then it will be up to this parliament to return to the strict application of the treaty, article 272, and to give itself the means - which it can do - both in terms of commitments and payments, to vote appropriations commensurate with the commitments which are the political commitments of the european union and in strict compliance with the treaty. madam president, the ball is in your court. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, the debate on the budget is always a good time to express political will. it is an opportunity for the european union to reaffirm its moral duty to reach out to the developing world; it is an opportunity to show how much we want to fight poverty, injustice, discrimination of all kinds, the absence of democracy, violations of human rights and freedom. in short, it is an opportunity to show our willingness to pursue our development policy, even if we have to revise it here and there to make it more effective and transparent. the draft budget for 2000 is the most worrying in this respect. in saying that, i am of course referring to category 4 which mr bourlanges has spoken at length about earlier. in addition to the fact that the commission first and the council second have proposed very substantial reductions on all the lines concerned, we now have to respond to many dramatic situations around the world. we must respond to the plight of the people of kosovo and make a considerable effort to rebuild the country. but we must do this by creating new appropriations and not by cutting all the lines in category 4 by about 10%. we cannot make the poorest of the poor pay for the actions of the european union. we cannot oppose the poor to the poor, the good and the bad victims, and i regret that the council has put the problem in these terms, by referring back to back to the miseries. we need sufficient funds to finance the reconstruction of kosovo, of course, but also for east timor. and believe me, echo funds will not be able to cover everything, nor will transfers of funds from one line to another, depending on the priorities. we also need to finance the fisheries agreement with morocco, which is a priority for the european parliament. we must therefore ask the council to review the financial perspective for our external actions in category 4. i think parliament is quite unanimous on this point. i should also like to thank, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, both the rapporteur-general for the budget, mr bourlanges, and the committee on budgets, as well as its chairman, mr wynn, for their position on this matter. we have decided, however, on behalf of the committee on development, to table three amendments. the first concerns the question of gender. all over africa, women are on the move; they are the engine, the hope of africa for the next millennium, and we must accompany this movement. the second amendment concerns the health, reproduction and aids lines, which we propose to merge. but this merger must not lead to a reduction in appropriations. twenty-five million people will die of aids in africa, twenty-five million potential patients, nine-tenths of whom are unaware of the danger in their bodies because of lack of screening and sex education. aids is going to be africa's next drama. the third amendment we want to table concerns line b7-6000 on the community contribution to ngo activities. the draft budget provides for a very substantial reduction in the appropriations allocated to this heading. mr bourlanges has made a proposal for an increase, and i thank him for it. we propose to amend the comments. it's an amendment with no financial impact, but it will allow the liaison committee... (the president cut off the speaker)
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, every budget is, par excellence, the expression of political choices. from this point of view, i think there is a strange contradiction between pushing up the tasks assigned to the european union and pulling down the resources needed to carry them out. the iron logic of the fiscal stability pact is clearly incompatible with the ambition of a more social and united europe. to make the main points of the draft budget submitted to us by the council of ministers clear to the layman, i shall summarize them as follows. agricultural expenditure: a systematic 10% cut in all credit lines compared with the commission's preliminary draft, without even examining the specific needs on a case-by-case basis. structural funds: substantial reduction in the appropriations for regional aid. internal policies, i.e. research and networks aside, all policies in favour of employment, youth, training, the environment, culture: a reduction of almost 18% compared to our current budget. external action, particularly in the field of cooperation with the countries of the south: the cutting edge. examples have already been given, but i will add: food aid - 9% compared to today; cooperation with africa - 12%; aid to ngos - 35%. this choice is, in the eyes of my group, totally unacceptable. the reason given for these deep cuts is the unexpected emergence of new and entirely legitimate priorities, such as aid for the reconstruction of kosovo, contribution to the building of the newly liberated east timor, solidarity with the victims of the earthquake in turkey and financing of a fisheries agreement with morocco. that argument is, in my view, inadmissible. we cannot agree to strip peter to dress paul. as much as my group does not advocate any unreasonable increase in union expenditure, we feel it necessary, if the need arises, which it clearly does, to use the margin for increase in expenditure allowed by agreements between the member states themselves. however, as a percentage of the union's gross domestic product, the volume of the council's draft budget is lower than that of the commission's preliminary draft, which was already lower than that of the berlin agreement, which was itself below the ceiling set by the edinburgh agreements. where will it stop? you have to know what you want and be able to afford it. that is why my group is calling for the financial perspective to be revised for all the chapters i have just mentioned, within the limits laid down by the agreements of the member states themselves. and, mr bourlanges, since whoever can do more can do less, we support the rapporteur's proposal for a revision of the financial perspective for external action. i would also like to draw the attention of our colleagues to certain amendments tabled by my group in favour of a study on the application of the tobin tax to unesco world cultural heritage in the countries of the union, in favour of freezing aid to turkey, with the exception of aid to the victims of the earthquake, as long as the turkish authorities do not change their attitude towards the kurdish people, the cyprus question and the problem of human rights in general. finally, we urge that the appropriations entered in the 1999 budget for the european women's lobby, which brings together 1400 women's associations and does a very good job, be fully repaid in the 2000 budget. as you can see, these are common sense proposals on which all progressive members, if not more, can and should be able to agree.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary procedure for the year 2000 is now part of a strict financial framework with budgetary expenditure for the period 2000-06, assumed by this house in the interinstitutional agreement. if the same budgetary discipline prevails at both national and union level, it is here that it responds above all to the demands of certain member states and it is therefore clear that the first victim of this rigor will be the common agricultural policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as far as the structural funds are concerned, european regional policy has become a real handicap for france, contrary to a legend that is complacently maintained, including, alas, by the commissioner currently in charge of regional policy. in the field of foreign policy, we naturally approve of the fisheries agreement with morocco, an essential agreement in euro-mediterranean relations, too often neglected by the union. we also welcome financial support for east timor and aid to turkey following the earthquakes. as regards aid to kosovo, let us here regret for the last time the bombing of a european state by the countries of the union. we bombed the balkans yesterday, and today we must help to rebuild that region and restore peace, but peace for all, including the serbs in kosovo. we can see clearly what the increase in the financial envelope for external action foreshadows. the austerity announced in the financial perspective will in reality be selective austerity: foreign policy rather than agricultural policy. the significant reduction in the agricultural policy, the questionable regional policy are all elements that our group cannot accept. and if need be, paragraph 20 of mr bourlanges' resolution, which considers the distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure to be profoundly anachronistic, would be sufficient to justify our rejection of the budget.
- mr president, the draft budget for the year 2000, 92 billion euros, a margin of flexibility for our parliament of 1.5 billion euros, taking account of the financial perspectives, linear reductions in all appropriations or, in any case, agricultural appropriations, little ambition, still the sprinkling and the budgetary patronage: in other words, a draft budget without much novelty, and mr bourlanges has the great merit of trying to technically animate the discussion. he has given us a good study with a sort of potpourri of everything he has written since march and with the attitude of an adviser to the french court of auditors. that's all very well. the only new things are involuntary. the first budget of the 21st century, which will also see the dissolution of the european union as soon as seattle abandons the community preference, is the first budget of the financial perspective 2000-06, which mr bourlanges is also calling for to be revised. this is the first budget to reach nearly €100 billion if the bourlanges amendments are adopted and, speaking of mr bourlanges - who is the financier of the 'uncle jean monnet fund' - this is his first report after the general report, after those of mrs dührkop, mr tillich, mr lamassoure and others. apart from this change of face and profile with mr bourlanges, the year 2000 is similar to 1999 in budgetary matters. first, there is the european parliament's constant ambition to win the day, a constant since 1979. it is a natural drift of all the world's parliaments. the number of judgments of the court of justice of the european communities has increased. there was even a cancellation of the 1995 budget, the refusal of president hänsch to sign it and, each time, it was the conflict over the dno and the do. well, mr bourlanges brings us back to that warlike atmosphere; he quotes marshal foch, which is normal. there is no room in the european budgetary swamp for two crocodiles: the crocodile of the european council and the crocodile of the european parliament, which, after eating the commission by overthrowing santer, now wants to eat the council. so mr bourlanges is proposing to be voluntarist, he wants to increase community spending by 7%, he is an ultra-liberal who has forgotten the budgetary rationing pact he wanted to impose on others and he is distributing the money because christmas is approaching: 135 million for turkey, 500 million for kosovo. first you bomb, then you rebuild. and then there's even east timor. they say it's the old monarchs who are concerned with foreign policy. of course, farmers are not entitled to the same generosity, except to move to turkey. the only problem, of course, is that as we increase expenditure, we will eventually have to increase revenue and think about a community tax. in the meantime, italy will pay, france will pay 600 million more. i will end, since mr bourlanges quotes st matthew, quoting jesus, who asked peter the question: "peter, what do you think? from whom do the kings of the earth collect duty and taxes - from their sons or from strangers?" peter answers jesus: "from others". and jesus adds: "that's why the sons who don't pay taxes are free", but, with mr. bourlanges's deviations, how long will they be free?
- mr president, the main proposal in the bourlanges report is to increase the budget by €700 million to finance what it calls the four priorities, the main one being aid for the reconstruction of kosovo. i'm all for helping kosovo. but the financing of the reconstruction of kosovo, like that of serbia, whose people's fate does not seem to interest the european institutions, should be taken from the military budget of the powers responsible for the destruction. the humanitarian arguments used are mainly used to conceal the fact that 500 million public money, which is allegedly intended for kosovo, will be used to generate private profit for large companies, especially those in the building and public works sector. the members of the workers' struggle and the revolutionary communist league do not intend to support the european budget, either directly or indirectly. this budget reflects the fundamental orientation of the european institutions, which are responsible for facilitating the activities of the large capitalist groups, including those that are most harmful to society, such as the layoffs plans which are responsible for the seriousness of unemployment and the spread of poverty. as far as internal policies are concerned, since the bourlanges report sets priorities, the first priority should be to prevent all the job cuts announced by renault-nissan, alsthom, rhône-poulenc, hoechst-marion-roussel and many others. this is the only way to combat the rise in unemployment effectively, without costing the budget a single penny.
- mr president, i would like to draw parliament's attention to the fact that the draft budget for 2000 does not provide for the provision of line b1-3800 for the promotion of agricultural products, the amount of which only makes it possible to put the past behind us, and i would naturally like to thank the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, for his understanding and for the support of mr böge and mr görlach. as a result, the efforts to promote quality beef, fruit and vegetables and dairy products were in danger of being wiped out, even though this action is part of the community's action which could be included in the green box at wto level. the pretext of the establishment of an evaluation study does not justify the suspension of appropriations whose continuity is the guarantee of success. the professionals in the member states who are widely involved in this action agree on a study. it could lead in particular to the harmonization of the community contribution, which currently varies from 40 to 100% depending on the products. at the same time, it is planned to finance a communication action on third countries, but in the absence of an implementing regulation, it is unlikely that the appropriation will be used in 2000. finally, there is also provision for a budget for the promotion of labelling, which the commission proposes to postpone by one year, making it unnecessary to promote a product which will not exist. it is therefore possible to continue to promote quality products without additional expenditure, and i therefore ask the commission not to stop promoting quality products, because behind these products are difficult regions, products of the land and the income of our family farms.
- mr president, we are concerned about the draft budget for 2000, particularly as regards the lines on 'development, cooperation' and also 'human rights', as other members have already said. in fact, we feel that this budget limits everything we hold dear. at a time when women are being asked to take a greater part in the decision-making process, the corresponding budget lines are being reduced. at a time when the environment, and in particular the protection of tropical forests, is being integrated into the development process, the funds allocated to it are being reduced. at a time when developing countries are being asked to respect the principle of good governance, respecting human rights, our own budget for this crucial issue is being cut very sharply. finally, at a time when lusaka is reminding us of the human and economic harm of aids in africa, we are reducing the funds devoted to it, contrary to the claims of commissioner nielson, while mixing them with health and reproductive policy. in addition, we can only regret the tendency to give priority to aid to states rather than to ngos, and particularly those in the south, which are known to be more effective and allow for real involvement of civil society. in short, we cannot be satisfied with this new distribution of funds which destabilizes the priorities of the european union in the developing countries.
commission. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your many interesting contributions to the debate and, above all, for the very constructive atmosphere in which these discussions took place. i would like to limit myself to certain points which i would like to touch on further because i think that parliament's and the commission's proposals must be accepted. firstly, there are the market measures in the agricultural sector. the commission agrees that it is obviously necessary that the budgetary estimates for the year 2000 correspond as closely as possible to real needs and that no artificial reduction is made. this was the approach we adopted in the preliminary draft budget, and it will be continued in the letter of amendment. i now turn to the rural development measures. i had stressed that i also regarded the second pillar of the agricultural policy as a crucial complement and that is why the commission will propose a limited increase in rural development measures, also to encourage member states to make greater efforts in the field of agricultural environmental protection and the creation of structures guaranteeing safety in the food chain. i would like to raise the point about research. it was proposed to break down the budget lines. i think there is a condition for reaching a solution that is acceptable to all. the commission will inform the european parliament before any changes in the evaluations of the key actions are necessary or undertaken and will of course give a thorough justification for them. i hope that we can reach a solution acceptable to all with regard to the presentation of the budget. as regards the question of bat, which was again raised with great insistence by mr bourlanges, mr wynn and mr elles, the new commission will undertake and examine the assignment of tasks to technical assistance offices in the light of various criteria, which you have mentioned again, with a view to reaching a clear decision as to what work should be carried out by the public administration and what can be carried out by the assistance offices. this issue will also be a key point in the blueprint on administrative reform and institutional reforms. on the basis of this blueprint, it will also be possible - as the european parliament wishes - to carry out an overall assessment of staff requirements. in conclusion, i would like to address the question of financing important reconstruction measures in kosovo. mr bourlanges rightly pointed out that this mission would last more than a year. on the other hand, we find ourselves in a situation where we have no solid basis for an assessment of global needs. that is why the commission proposes that we first review the financial perspective for the year 2000 and then, when we have the figures, discuss how we can make the necessary appropriations available for the following year. some criticism was expressed as to what approach should be taken for the year 2000. it is a fact that the comparison of the 500 million euros with the estimated gdp of kosovo is worth mentioning. however, i think we should stick to the figure which has also been quoted in a political context by the union, namely that it allocates eur 500 million for the year 2000, so that it does not give the impression that it is shying away from its political responsibilities. i have the feeling, after listening to the speeches, that the commission proposal i have mentioned can be a good basis for seeking a compromise. i should like to refer to the speeches by mr böge and mrs buitenweg. the commission proposes a limited revision, as you mentioned, and it is also very important to plan for and take account of echo actions for kosovo. the commission will therefore propose the use of the three instruments: pooling appropriations, use of the flexibility instrument and revision of the financial perspective. i am convinced that, by listening to the speeches, we will succeed in finding a solution acceptable to all and in drawing up a responsible budget for the year 2000. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank mrs schreyer for what she has just said. we will appreciate his proposal once it has been formulated, which will help us to understand it. for the moment, i will confine myself to one small observation, which mrs schreyer will understand perfectly, on research funding. i appreciated the terms of the commitments made publicly by the commissioner regarding the management of the research lines. i attach particular importance - and i believe the whole committee on budgets does too - to the fact that these commitments are given concrete expression in writing, in addition to the very interesting letter that mrs schreyer sent us, to which mr wynn has replied and which i believe calls for further clarification. i would therefore ask you, madam commissioner, to make the commitments you have just made a reality with your colleagues in the terms you consider appropriate, so that we can vote on thursday in full knowledge of the facts and on the basis of clear commitments that exclude any misunderstanding between us.
- ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to take your seats now that mr. duisenberg has joined us. mr duisenberg, we have been waiting for you, i dare say, with some impatience, and we are very glad that you have finally joined us.
- the next item is the report (a5-0035/1999) by mr huhne, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the 1998 annual report of the european central bank (c4-0211/1999). i shall now give the floor to mr duisenberg.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the new parliament has been given the task of monitoring the european central bank. the green group warmly supports the huhne report, not only for its professional quality but also for its general spirit. it is a response to the fundamental problem we face today, namely responsibility for the conduct of monetary policy. what is the nature of this problem ? the central bank is not a fourth power. it is not in a position, for example, to challenge the social rights acquired by europeans. these rights are based either on the universal declaration of human rights, on national legislation or on agreements between the social partners. the central bank, on the other hand, was given a specific task by the europeans: to ensure price stability. the maastricht treaty is not very specific about how it is to report on its mission to the national representation. all the central or international banks of the major countries are bound, in one form or another, to this democratic responsibility towards the socio-economic community, in the anglo-saxon countries through the parliament, in germany through the federated banks of the länder. we must now invent the forms of democratic accountability for the european central bank. the huhne report already provides many clues. we support the two amendments tabled by the rapporteur himself, the publication of votes in the council of the european central bank and the econometric models on which these votes are based. only full transparency in the relationship between the objectives set by the treaty and the actions of the council members will enable the europeans to measure whether the council members are fulfilling their duties properly, which we do not doubt. in this respect, the huhne report rightly welcomes the drop in interest rates in april. in addition to the positive effect of this decision on employment, it is in line with the objective of ecological sustainability, i.e. the refusal to give too much priority to the present over the future. this is why our group is concerned about the rumours of an upcoming rise in interest rates. such a decision would undermine both the recovery of employment in europe and green investments, in particular those related to energy savings and the fight against the greenhouse effect. such a decision could only be taken if there was a threat to price stability. and price stability is a two-way street. for many months the consumer price index has been rising at a rate of 1%, but the industrial price index has been falling at a rate of 1%. this deflation of industrial prices precipitates the preference for the present, which would become dangerous if real interest rates were to rise. it is to avoid this that our group is proposing an amendment which draws the attention of the european central bank to its mandate of ensuring price stability in both directions.
mr president, our parliament is receiving today the president of the european central bank, that is to say the president of the first institution to which the european nations - by some unknown arrangement - have decided to entrust, to give sovereign power, to eleven of them at any rate. mr duisenberg, you are thus succeeding - even if the meagre attendance here today does not seem to be in the spirit of what i am saying - the emperors and popes who, since charlemagne, have dreamed of uniting our continent by faith or by force. in the end, you will probably have more power or influence than they do, although it will be less glamorous, because at the end of the millennium, when money seems to be the ultimate universal value, you are about to hold both temporal and spiritual power within the european union. in the face of this state bank or this holy bank - i do not know how to describe it exactly - of which your vice-president, mr noyer, recently explained to us in english how it felt to be accountable for the long term when governments were succumbing to the whims of the short term because they were subject to the vagaries of universal suffrage, and therefore in the face of the all-powerful nature of this bank, our colleague huhne's excellent report calls for more transparency, without even daring to go so far as to ask you to do what could be considered an exhibition, that is to say to get out of the anonymity of decisions. we can only approve these excellent resolutions, knowing that the more democracy is abandoned or disregarded, the more transparency is spoken of. in russia, transparency is called glasnost. that is why, mr president of the central bank, i believe that today's meeting, and in particular the ridiculous counter-power that this parliament is trying to exert in relation to the considerable power entrusted to you, can only worry all those who are attached to national sovereignty, which is only a way for peoples to control their own destiny. i hope that, in recognition of the power that has been given to you, you will be able to exercise it with all the wisdom that can be hoped for.
- mr president, mr president of the central bank, mr commissioner, i believe that our sitting today is a founding act. this is the first time, mr president of the central bank, that you have presented your annual report to this house. but if i am able to read the treaty on european union correctly, this is an essential element of the balance sought by those who set up economic and monetary union, with the success we are enjoying given the conditions for the changeover to the euro on 1 january this year. in this balance, there is both the independence of your institution and the annual report which you have to submit to ours: this is the meeting we are attending today. unlike some of my compatriots, i believe that we are reaching the very heart of your democratic responsibility here today. as you know, our institution has clearly demonstrated its willingness to exercise fully the powers conferred on it by the treaty; he has made it a point to hear from each of your members of the executive board, he meets with you regularly and he makes this meeting today the culmination of this process. it is perhaps only natural that today our debate should be more about a discourse on method than on the substance of monetary policy. you are almost in the period of the rollover; we are too. we must use this period to strengthen our own resources as the european parliament. but you too, mr president, may have to take the opportunity to reconsider your view of the relationship between your institution and ours. so, with regard to transparency - many have said this before me, but i insist - if we want to be able to act as a relays to the monetary policy you are implementing and which we are debating, we need explanations, motivations and justifications for the decisions you take. as regards monetary policy itself, mr president, you said that it cannot solve the structural problems of the labour market. - i 'll take it . but it can contribute to this, and that is what the treaty invites you to do, and that is what we invite you to do. sustained growth in europe is essential if we are to solve the employment problem. there will be no structural reform without growth. there are positive signs, of course: we know that slower growth is already creating jobs in some of our countries. but if we want sustainable growth with a high level of employment, we need accompaniment by monetary policy. this is what the treaty invites you to do, and this is what we expect you to do. in this respect, your policy on interest rate policy is obviously essential and we expect very clear commitments from you in this respect.
- mr president, i do not share the rapporteur's congratulations to the ecb. as for presenting the few protocol gestures of the european central bank leaders towards the european parliament as an expression of democratic control, it is a bad joke. that said, i would like above all to speak out against the real declaration of war against the workers and unemployed of the european union which is the objective stated by the vice-president of the ecb when he speaks, i quote: of "reducing the rigidities of the labour market" or "taking on ingrained habits and allegedly acquired rights". it is clear that the right in question is simply the right to work and to a wage that allows a decent living. these gentlemen from the central bank are acting as spokesmen for the big business which is, in fact, "reducing the rigidities of the labour market" by eliminating thousands of jobs, as at this very moment michelin, renault-nissan, alsthom, rhône-poulenc, and hoest marion roussel and many others, or by generalizing precariousness with wages that plunge a growing fraction of the population into poverty while the fortunes of the big shareholders increase. gentlemen, beware, their attitude will eventually trigger the reactions it deserves among the workers and the unemployed. i hope that these reactions will unite the victims of employers' policy in all the countries of the european union.
commission - i answer no to the first part of the question. i see nothing in what we are proposing here that would really threaten our ability to react quickly. we do not intend to create a rigid system and the special character, the capacity to act and the very identity of echo are all important elements which, in my view, can prevent echo - the humanitarian aid office - from being involved in the heavy decision-making machinery of the commission. we are not going to the kind of problems you are referring to here. the case of sierra leone is difficult to decide. the main question is to what extent sufficient donors can be mobilised. it's not just about our own actions. a large number of donors must be willing and able to make a long-term effort in a given country; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. we must do our part on the ground and then encourage a gradual withdrawal of echo once the crisis is over. our development-oriented resources can then take over and be used for the long term. without the participation of others, we will achieve nothing. so, what do we do now? the partial answer to this question is to be more active in ad hoc discussions - within sierra leone's advocacy groups, for example - in trying to develop a more coordinated response and to go beyond the immediate demands of the crisis. we must be careful not to end up like unhcr in rwanda, which today continues to fund and manage primary education in that country. no one is willing to fund this education, that's why unhcr is here. its work is quite respectable but this situation leads to a distortion of the international system and the division of tasks when the regular donors are not willing to play their traditional role. we hope to be able to steer the international debate in this direction, a better direction than it has taken so far.
i have the great pleasure today of welcoming mr andrés pastrana, president of the republic of colombia. (applause) mr president, your visit to the european parliament comes at a time when the entire colombian population has loudly expressed its desire for civil peace, democracy and respect for human rights. we were very moved by the appeal of the 11 million colombians, including your wife, who marched through the streets of many cities in your country last sunday. i should like to remind you that we are concerned by the desire for peace expressed by your compatriots and that it is our duty to encourage any initiative that may contribute to that end. this huge demonstration coincided with the opening of peace negotiations between your government and the guerrillas in uribe. i would like to pay tribute to your perseverance and courage, which have enabled this peace process to begin, and i sincerely hope that it will be irreversible. yes, the european parliament can stand with the colombians who chanted nunca mas last sunday. mr president, your continent and your country in particular have paid a heavy price for violence and political instability. that is why i would like to pay tribute, in your presence, to all those who have been the victims of their commitment to democracy. too many women and politicians, journalists, human rights defenders and citizens have paid with their lives for their fight for a more just and humane society. i would like to remind you, mr president, that we will support all efforts to eliminate terrorist acts, to control paramilitary forces and to assert the supremacy of civilian power over military power. the european union will help you in your peace-building efforts and will work to strengthen eu-colombia relations. the cooperation agreement, of the third generation type, has already made it possible to establish very strong links between us. i am convinced that these ties would be all the stronger if they were part of the framework of strengthened regional cooperation between the andean pact countries, which we hope will be strengthened, because regional stability is, of course, above all a matter of good neighbourly relations. mr president, today our european parliament wishes to encourage you to continue your efforts to establish the rule of law once and for all. we thank you for your presence, for your visit and it is a great pleasure for me to give you the floor now. (applause from the left)
president of the republic of colombia. - (es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to stand before you, representatives of a europe of hope, which is the most successful model of political integration of this century and which proves that it is possible to move from death to life, from contempt for man to respect for his rights, from pessimism to hope; the european union is a great example of the need to promote peace and democracy in the world, and it is also a proof that peace is possible where development, social justice, the defence of the weakest, solidarity and coexistence are rooted, where they define culture, give meaning to freedom and pave the way to these shared objectives. my country has the privilege today, from this new chamber of the european parliament, of speaking to europe, to the representatives democratically elected by the 15 countries that currently make up the european union. colombia, the country i govern according to democratic principles, is struggling to achieve peace, employment, development and, in particular, social justice. the sovereign people of colombia, through the highest vote in history, have been clear and have given me an unequivocal mandate. a mandate to achieve peace within the nation. i'm not used to raising my hands to protect myself from the sunlight or having a blindfold. the international community is farsighted and watching us carefully. we too, with our own eyes, see what is happening on the territory of the nations and we know that action must be taken now, that there is no time to lose, that the time has come for cooperation and not confrontation or intervention. many of our neighbours in latin america have, over time, found a solution to their conflicts. the european union has always been very much present in this process, acting as a mediator and a bridge between different political and social sectors. the european union played a key role in the negotiation processes in guatemala and el salvador. the traditional concern of europe for peace and human rights and its accentuated tradition in the negotiation process are more than necessary support for my country: they are vital support. it is therefore also vital that europe knows the ins and outs of the colombian conflict. we can no longer allow the discussion of colombia to be based on empty words, on the idealization of conflicts of the past decades, or even less on news reports from the press that are more concerned with the spectacular nature of the news than with the reality they contain. i know the questions you have about our conflict and the peace process. why does the guerrilla persist in colombia when it has disappeared from the rest of the continent? is there a civil war in colombia? what does the "relaxation zone" mean? who is violating human rights in colombia and what is the government's commitment to human rights? is plan colombia a military plan ? i'm here today to inform you of our true situation, without denying the severity of the violence we are suffering. it is impossible to ignore the reality of my country. violence has been rampant in our homeland for years. many colombians have died because of it and many have lost their freedom because of the kidnappings. the colombian conflict, because of its own dynamics, has undergone serious transformations, and the force with which drug trafficking broke into colombia in the 1980s is undoubtedly the main factor in the escalation of violence. it has not only had an effect on the guerrillas, whose funding is increasingly coming from coca leaf rights, but has also caused the violence to spread to other armed groups and organised crime groups. in the face of escalating violence, the population has said, "enough". the protests, which are reminiscent of the spanish response to terrorism, have taken to the streets to demand an end to the violence. the people of my country are now more united than ever to demand an end to the violation of human rights, in particular kidnapping, which is an unacceptable instrument for financing guerrillas and other violent groups. there is no civil war in colombia. the guerrillas are supported by less than 4% of the colombian population. the conflict has changed substantially over the past two decades. while the military capacity of the violent groups is growing, largely boosted by the money from drug trafficking, the civilian population is asking to be excluded from the conflict, because they have understood that they are now the main victims and that their fundamental rights are being violated day after day. our conflict, ladies and gentlemen, is a sui generis conflict requiring a sui generis solution, which is what my government is working towards and is committed to. the guerrilla has occupied the attention of our people for over 40 years. during this period, several insurgent groups were involved in the conflict. but some of them also understood that the best alternative for the country is to lay down arms and embark on the path of political dialogue. in the last ten years, six armed groups with nearly 8,000 insurgents have replaced the use of their weapons with the force of their ideas. today we are moving forward on the path of negotiating the armed conflict with the farc, the oldest guerrilla group. in just over a year, through dialogue, we have agreed on a 12-point negotiating timetable and, on a historic sunday for our nation, we began the process of negotiations that will lead our country on the road to building a real and lasting peace. there has also been much speculation about the "relaxation zone". it is in fact an instrument created by colombian law to create the security conditions necessary for dialogue. this area covers only 3% of the national territory and represents 0.25% of the colombian population. in this area, we have not renounced our territorial integrity, nor the presence of the state, represented by its democratically elected mayors and municipal councillors. we are also making progress in finding a solution with the national liberation army, the eln. last week we made preliminary contacts with a view to resuming the dialogue and i hope that we will soon make progress which will enable us to begin negotiations with this subversive group as well. the whole of colombia and the international community are hopeful that progress will be made through political means. i am aware that our path is difficult and that we will continue to face difficulties, but we will move forward with determination to overcome them. peace processes take time and require patience, a lot of patience. let us recall the case of el salvador and guatemala. let us look at the processes in the middle east or in ireland. none of them found a solution overnight, but the benefits of a negotiated political solution will be clear. i want to reiterate here that i will do everything possible to obtain this vital peace for us. but as i said a few days ago in the united nations general assembly, i do not want peace at any price, but a peace which will really consolidate democracy, preserve the integrity of the territory and enable all citizens to exercise their rights and freedoms fully. i believe that we cannot achieve a dignified and democratic future without a culture of respect for fundamental rights. i know that throughout the internal conflict in colombia there have been serious violations of these rights, and this must stop. my commitment to human rights is absolute. my beliefs, my training, and the mandate of my people confirm it. that is why i have launched a broad state policy to fight within the limits of the law against armed groups that are on the margins of it; to ensure the safety, protection, support and freedom of action of human rights defenders; to address the needs of people displaced by violence; the european union is committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law, and to the adoption of legal instruments to protect human rights and strengthen our judicial system. in short, a set of specific measures to ensure the application of international humanitarian law. the results of this policy are reflected in the significant reduction in complaints of human rights violations by the police, as acknowledged by reports from intergovernmental bodies and ngos working in this field. we have worked hard to update our legislation. congress is currently debating a bill to criminalize and punish kidnapping, genocide and massacre. similarly, my government has encouraged the approval of a new military penal code that substantially increases the power of civilian courts when they have to try military personnel for crimes such as genocide, kidnapping and torture, and we have signed the statute of the international criminal court. we have also drawn up a presidential directive to encourage respect for non-governmental organizations working in the field of human rights. i also hope that these organizations will develop their noble activity with a strictly humanitarian purpose, without interfering in political life. ladies and gentlemen, my government is working resolutely to protect human rights, and in this respect we need the support of the international community. the violations of human rights by guerrillas and self-defence groups must be denounced and punished. if a state official violates human rights, it is also a crime that cannot go unpunished. so all violations of human rights must be rejected and the perpetrators punished in accordance with the law. the "reason of humanity" must take precedence over the "reason of the state" or the justifications put forward by the perpetrators of violence. it is also important for colombia that europe and the united states understand the links between drug trafficking and violence in colombia. colombia is the nation with the highest number of victims in the world in the fight against drug trafficking. this sinister trade has been and is the main cause of the greatest evils of our recent history. the economic power of these organizations has led to corruption in many areas of our lives. the drug trade has been a major source of violence and has been the cause of the mass killings that have cost our nation a very high human cost. it is currently helping to sustain the wave of violence we are experiencing, by funding various perpetrators of violence. i have already said it and i want to say it again before you: drug trafficking is today the worst and the greatest enemy of peace, and we will not achieve lasting peace unless we dismantle the organizations involved in the odious drug trade and unless we find economically and socially sustainable alternatives and solutions. my country has borne the brunt of the fight against drug trafficking like no other. i therefore wish to take this unique opportunity to call on all countries in the international community to develop the principle of what i have called 'shared responsibility' in order to combat the world drug problem. this principle implies that we must tackle together the serious problem of drugs on a global scale, in every link of the chain, namely production, distribution, consumption, money laundering, the diversion of chemicals and the sale of weapons. it also means that we all contribute to sustainable solutions to the extent of our own possibilities. we have concluded important agreements with the european union recognising shared responsibility in this area. we have made progress in promoting cooperation mechanisms between europe and the andean countries, such as the tariff concessions of the andean gsp, the extension of which is vital for my country. in this context, i also welcome the recent tampere european council presidency conclusion on money laundering, which notes the council's decision to 'ensure that concrete measures are taken to trace, freeze, seize and confiscate the proceeds of crime'. we must confiscate the money and property of drug traffickers and their associates who have acquired it through the trade of death, we must take away all possibilities for them to buy chemicals and weapons and we must prosecute the smugglers who launder the money they obtain. we must continue to move together towards global solutions that take all the links in the chain into account. we must also give priority to education and prevention programmes together to reduce demand. in this fight, ladies and gentlemen, we need you as partners and allies. my country does not ask much of you: we only ask that each member of the international community do its part of the job, according to the principle of shared responsibility. and that we can afford the costs of sustainable solutions wherever possible and with available resources. we should also be concerned about the serious environmental damage that drug trafficking causes every day. in our homeland, one of the eight most biodiverse nations, illegal coca cultivation has destroyed over a million acres of forest, wetlands and uplands. the devastation of nature is so irrational that we are destroying five hectares of forest to grow one coca or one poppy, and that every year 200,000 gallons of herbicides, 16,000 tons of chemical fertilisers and 100,000 gallons of poisons used in these crops pollute the water and soil of colombia. today i would like to repeat that there is no doubt that illegal crop activities are damaging the natural heritage of mankind. it is therefore the duty of all our countries to put an end to this destruction in order to defend at all costs the human rights of future generations to live on a habitable planet. we share the european concerns about global warming, deforestation and the need to conserve tropical forests. we also understand that we need to address the issue of polluting emissions. that is why we intend to propose to europe an environmental alliance bringing together the countries of the european union and colombia in order to achieve this noble objective together. in the face of the real situation in colombia, it is clear that the hard work of peace building must go beyond dialogue and negotiations with the insurgents. we need to look for deep solutions to our problems. we must build a new nation where respect for human rights, the administration of justice and the reconstruction of our social fabric are the solid foundations that will enable us to form a society in which the factors of violence are eradicated once and for all. that is why i have come here, to propose to those who share these ideals to deepen their commitment to us and to consolidate a beneficial alliance for all. timely cooperation is one of the best ways to protect human rights; cooperation is about preventing what can be avoided; cooperation is opening the door to hope. it is with this aim that i have drawn up the plan colombia for peace, prosperity and the strengthening of the state. this is not a military plan. it is a comprehensive and unified strategy to strengthen the country's fundamental objectives, such as the pursuit of peace, the recovery of our economy and the creation of jobs, the protection of human rights, the strengthening of justice and the increase of social participation. the final result will be the strengthening of our state, which is essential for achieving peace and progress. we need your participation in all these areas, but we especially need you, your nations, the whole of europe to invest in peace for peace's sake, to open its markets so that we can create jobs for peace. colombia is therefore presenting to the international community an alternative policy for the eradication of illicit crops based on an alternative development offering the peasant population, currently involved in illicit cultivation, a stable solution to its economic and social problems, by replacing its illegal crops with commercial, mining, agricultural, agro-industrial and service enterprises, equipped with the necessary infrastructure to be sufficiently competitive in a globalised economy. colombia hopes to be able to finance the infrastructure of the project with countries that are in some way linked to the drug trafficking chain and also hopes to link private capital, both domestic and foreign, to economically productive enterprises so that they can integrate advanced technologies and new capital. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i wish you, on behalf of the colombian people, every success in the enlargement and deepening of european democracy. you represent those who have chosen life, peace and the defence of human rights; you are the expression of those who believe in democracy, freedom and a healthy environment for future generations. it is up to you to play a major role in bringing the nations closer together, those who are building up their own hopes and who are eager to see the third millennium filled with the realities that are good for them. i am here before the representatives of european democracy to make it clear that i have placed my trust in peace; i offered the guerrillas peace in dignity and security. we need a great national agreement, backed by the international community, to live in peace. as a democrat speaking to democrats, i say to you today: bet on peace in colombia. doing so means investing in humanity and in prospects for development, well-being and social justice. thank you very much. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- mr president, i thank you for the words you have just spoken, which will remain etched in our conscience as europeans, in our conscience as women and politicians. you have explained to us, with great frankness and clarity, the difficult situation in your country. i have noted that you have stressed the disasters of all kinds caused by drug trafficking and have called for what i will call our shared responsibility to eradicate this scourge. we got your message. as you know, an extraordinary council of heads of state or government of the european union met a few days ago in tampere and decided on a number of extremely vigorous measures in this area. and then you explained to us how you intend to walk on the path of peace. you have very strongly expressed your desire to, and i quote, "silence the guns with the force of ideas". i must say that i very much liked what you said to us on this subject and i also appreciated your willingness, as you have expressed it, to establish a peace that strengthens democracy. in this connection you have mentioned a number of very courageous measures which, as you can see from the applause of my colleagues, have been very much appreciated. we have heard, mr president, your wish, your call, i would say, for very close cooperation between us, your call for us to help you in your very courageous undertaking. i thank you for choosing the european parliament to make this appeal, and i can assure you that this appeal has been heard and understood. (applause from the centre and the right)
- the agenda calls for the report of the european council and the commission's statement on the results of the european council meeting in tampere on 15 and 16 october. i am very pleased to give the floor to mr lipponen, president-in-office of the council.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as the opacity of the preparatory work suggested, the conclusions of the tampere council remain, for our group, disappointing in their ambition and vague in their conclusion, despite some interesting progress. from a general point of view, it is very significant that the council has announced a precise timetable for measures concerning the safe space. however, for actions falling within the area of freedom, there is no clear timetable. the fear of a fortress europe therefore still exists. the measures relating to asylum and immigration remain completely indefinite and unconstrained, the only good news being that the geneva convention is being respected and the fight against racism is being reaffirmed. our group welcomes the desire to grant similar rights to third country nationals and european citizens. the committee is concerned, however, that there are still some uncertainties on this issue. it is essential that this equality of rights be extended to political rights, freedom of movement and the right to family life. europe must provide the same guarantees for all the people living on its soil. there is also concern about president lipponen's statement on the future of the charter of fundamental rights. to announce that this will be a political declaration is to destroy the work of the working party in advance. the binding nature of this charter is essential in the perspective of building a people's europe. finally, if the council announced the increase in the powers and mandate of europol, a necessary tool in the fight against organised crime, what about democratic and judicial control, particularly as regards the creation of files? this lack of transparency is the seed of future deviations from our individual and collective freedoms. this shortcoming must be addressed urgently by the creation of a european commission for information technology and freedom.
- madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i do not know whether there will be a spirit of tampere. in any case, i am quite certain that tampere will be an important step on the road to the creation of a people's europe, for which we must now fight with determination. in this area of justice, security and freedom which we are striving to establish, all three terms are important, and tampere is acting on all three. and then, commissioner, you now have a major responsibility in committing yourself to the development of this scoreboard. there is a rudder in your hands: we expect much of it. on the question of fundamental rights, the establishment of the framework enabling this parliament to contribute to the drafting of a charter is one element, but, in substance, we will have debates, because, for us, this charter must have direct effects, that is to say, citizens must be able to appeal to the court of justice and this charter must deal with new rights for europeans in the 21st century. on immigration, by integrating what could be called a co-development strategy, i.e. by recognising that to solve the immigration issue, the root causes of refugee phenomena will have to be fully tackled, i believe that tampere marks a significant step forward. it also marks a significant step forward in the recognition of the right to nationality for third country nationals. this is an important step. we also believe that in this fight the french, german and british contributions on asylum and immigration will provide us with elements that will have to be taken into account more. in the area of justice, we attach particular importance to the mutual recognition of judgments in civil and criminal matters. this is essential for us because behind it is the reality of a europe of citizens which allows family law to become a right for binational couples too, and not just a source of difficulties. we therefore call on you, mr president-in-office of the council, to quickly incorporate the brussels ii convention, because this is an urgent matter and a legal requirement that many families are waiting for. and then - and this will not surprise you - we in this parliament attach a certain importance to the democratic nature of the procedures. we therefore ask that the legislative procedures provided for in the treaty of amsterdam not be circumvented. we also ask that in future these issues be brought into the community's hands in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. finally, if there is a spirit of tampere, we ask that title iv of the amsterdam treaty be implemented in advance. we shall see it as a pledge of the goodwill of all the partners.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tampere decided to draw up a european charter of fundamental rights. the consultation of unhcr on immigration and asylum policy can be considered a significant step forward. i regret that human rights and anti-racism associations and the social partners have already been excluded from the drafting of this charter. i would like to pay tribute to these men and women. their dedication and fieldwork has helped to recreate a social network and has reduced the daily racism, hatred and contempt. bringing these forces together would help to break the deadlock in the debate on immigration and asylum. unemployment, insecurity and immigration are all too often conflated. to hear today that we are going to use eurodac to take the fingerprints of asylum seekers and minors is unacceptable, and to justify this by saying that it is easier than taking their dna is beyond comprehension. on the contrary, equal rights must be given and immigrants treated as full citizens. this requires family reunification, the fight against discrimination in housing, employment, leisure, the right to land. and in the face of the daily humiliation inflicted on immigrants, it is right and proper to give them the right to vote. finally, to regularize the undocumented and to abolish the double penalty would give full meaning to this charter. a very important sentence, if i may say so, was said in tampere. this charter will ensure, in the face of the surge of extremism... (the president cut off the speaker)
- mr president, general de gaulle said that good politics is not a politics of good feelings. in this respect, the tampere council marks a further step in the denial of reality. the report of this conference suggests that the peculiarities of the peoples of europe should be fused in a kind of global melting pot where, i quote, 'the rights and obligations of migrants should be similar to those of citizens of the european union, the status of third-country nationals should be closer to that of nationals of the member states', and this in accordance with a so-called principle of non-discrimination. all these positive feelings will of course only increase the migration flows, i.e. unemployment and insecurity. a realistic immigration policy should, on the contrary, be to make the situation of migrants in europe more difficult by, among other things, abolishing all social aid - a policy which is also that of the us congress - by reducing economic aid to countries which encourage immigration and by systematically organising border returns. but to do this, we must break with the prevailing ideology, punish the media which, like the arte television channel, disseminate this ideology and, in general, no longer be afraid of our social and cultural superiority. we cannot shoulder the misery of the world, the inability of some to organise themselves or the vengeful thirst of the former colonies. it is natural for groups of men to seek to dominate others. it is up to our european peoples to be the strongest in this fight. if we fail to do so, europe, like any other organisation which stops fighting, will be forced to disappear into the crowd.
- mr president, despite all the good words we have just heard, it seems to me obvious that the mountain of tampere has given birth to a mouse. the only resolution adopted was to take the resolution to adopt a resolution later to solve the problems raised. yet there is urgency. while all the member states were pledging their commitment to human rights in tampere, the belgian government was sending back to slovakia, manu militari and by charter, several dozen gypsies. in france, because of changes in legislation, nearly 70,000 immigrants are undocumented, illegal. in saint-denis, in the paris region, six of them have been on hunger strike for more than 30 days. the question remains: how can member states be obliged to respect the rights and dignity of immigrants and asylum seekers ? in concrete terms, this means the right to free movement, the right to vote, the right to family reunification, the abolition of double punishment, the regularisation of the undocumented, the end of all racial discrimination. the approach taken by tampere is therefore wrong. instead of harmonizing repressive laws in a europe that is increasingly looking like a fortress, let us establish at community level real statutes and rights for immigrants and asylum seekers.
- mr president, commissioner, the europe of nations group considers that the dehaene report on the institutional implications of enlargement is not satisfactory either in its methodology or in the main conclusions it draws. the method he used: the cologne council last june refused to appoint a small working party to prepare the work of revising the treaty. he wanted the discussions to be more open from the outset. now, what have we seen? the commission, despite not being able to close the debate, hastened to appoint a small working party on its own behalf, a group which was immediately described as a group of wise men, although its members are no wiser than the average person in the chamber. all this in an attempt to force the council to stick to the agenda of the conference as desired by the commission. it is not surprising, therefore, that the dehaene report seeks to strengthen the powers of the commission and to circumvent the rights of the states. first of all, this text concludes - what a curious coincidence! - that the commission will have to present a complete draft treaty to the council as soon as the intergovernmental conference begins. so it's the same method of enforcement that continues. in the same spirit, the group is advancing the old federalist proposal for the generalization of qualified majority voting in the council. this proposal, combined with the maintenance of the commission's monopoly of initiative, would, as is well known, result in a considerable strengthening of the commission's powers and a corresponding reduction of the rights of the states. it is interesting to note that in a good example of nine european languages, the majority decisionmaking system is described in the report as 'consensus-based', although the opposite is clearly true. majority rule requires minority to comply, especially small states, while unanimity requires negotiation until consensus is reached. in the same spirit of circumventing the states, the dehaene report proposes that the treaty may in certain cases be amended by a simple decision of the council, or even by a decision taken only by a qualified majority. this is absolutely unacceptable, because it is totally contrary to our conception of a europe which respects its nations. however, this report, alongside the usual federalist pontificals, timidly outlines a new idea, that of the institutional flexibility necessary for an enlarged europe. it recognizes, as we have always said, that the enhanced cooperation of the amsterdam treaty can do nothing to solve the double problem of growing heterogeneity and the total impossibility of relinquishing sovereign powers to qualified majority decision-making procedures, and even more so in a europe of thirty or more states. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the real subject to be included on the igc's agenda, and the second subject, 'how to bring europe back under the control of its peoples', is similar to the first, since it too calls for the free exercise of national sovereignty.
- mr president, less than a year after the historic success of monetary union, the european union is in a strange position. she runs, she runs, but she doesn't know where she's going or how she's getting there. the european currency notes are not yet in circulation and in june in cologne there was talk of a european army, in september in tampere of a european criminal justice system, a charter of fundamental rights is being prepared, and above all, the commission is calling on the european council to accept the prospect of a europe extended to asia minor and the western borders of iraq and iran. it's not an enlargement anymore, it's an explosion. some, including us in the udf in the epp, are in favour of further european progress. some of us are reserved, even hostile. but i think we can all agree that it is time for politicians to take back control of the machine and finally dare to debate the purpose of the geographical dimension and the path of political europe, as we have done for economic and monetary europe. europe, how far? how far, in geographical terms? we have never discussed this in parliament, in the council or in the commission. europe, how far ahead in terms of skills? the europe of the thirty cannot function as the europe of the twelve! on the one hand, it will need a much more effective decision-making system, political rather than diplomatic. conversely, there will be fewer subjects of common interest and the need for decentralisation will be much greater. how far do we want to go ? with what partners and in what way ? these are the questions that must be answered before we can give our legal advisers instructions on, for example, the future weighting of the vote on the beautiful island of malta. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, without wishing to prolong the debate, i believe that a problem has arisen which requires a solution to avoid that we are confronted with the same problem every time. the functioning of a democracy requires rules, but the honour of a democracy is also measured by the care it takes to protect its minorities, and i hope that we all have the same rights in this house.
- mr evans, i very much welcome the three points you have raised. on the first point, we thought it would be desirable to ask the two candidates which system they preferred. we asked them whether they wanted an electronic vote or not, since, as always but perhaps more particularly in this case, the vote could be very close, perhaps with a few votes. in any case, as president, i did not want there to be any subsequent objections, that colleagues said they had made mistakes in the handling. it seemed to me extremely important. if both candidates had accepted electronic voting, we would have done so. that was not the case. i should like to point out that this vote by ballot took exactly 20 minutes, as i have been informed. i think it is not excessive and it will allow us to have a vote that is absolutely unchallenged and uncontested. on the second point, i think you noticed my frown. i saw right away where the blow came from. it was not easy to overcome, but i made it clear that it was absolutely wrong and i hope that the person concerned understood that. on the third point, we will do what is necessary, because here too it is not normal. these are things we cannot accept. so the observation will be made.
in writing. - this is not the first time and certainly not the last time that i have spoken about the issues connected with the development of e-commerce services. i believe that while we should be pleased that trade is being facilitated by the advances in information technology, we must nevertheless remain extremely vigilant and ensure that there is a fair balance between the interests of service providers and consumer protection. we must take account of new developments: electronic communications and transactions are growing and becoming more widespread. the products and services of the sector generate a rapidly expanding global market, with growth expected to exceed 100% by 2001. this means that rules to regulate this new market must be adopted as soon as possible. while it creates new opportunities for profit for businesses of all kinds, it also creates a certain degree of insecurity for consumers. it is therefore imperative to develop standards for the security and legal recognition of electronic signatures and authentication services (authenticity of origin and data integrity). this is what the directive we are discussing today proposes. the european parliament had proposed several amendments at first reading. we were pleased to see that many of them were taken up in the common position. the same must be true of the amendments proposed today. this directive should be a first step in the development of a european framework in the field of electronic commerce, while being aware that we will not be able to avoid discussing this topic at world level for a long time.
in writing. - i voted against the european parliament resolution on the 1998 annual report of the european central bank (ecb) because it approves of this report, which itself is in the perspective of the transition to a fully unified european monetary system. i agree with the economists in the association for monetary independence in france that this is not a desirable objective and that, on 1 january 2002, national currencies must be maintained alongside the euro as a common currency. the european parliament resolution also deals extensively with technical measures to improve the ecb's transparency. this may seem a noble goal, but it is unattainable. the european parliament has just proved this itself by getting itself into a tangle from which it has not been able to escape. the original text of the resolution called for the meaning of the votes of the various members of the governing council to be made public after each monetary decision. mr duisenberg, president of the ecb, argued that he did not agree with this idea for all sorts of reasons, each one worse than the last. in particular, he said that publicity of votes would encourage pressure on council members. professor buiter, a member of the bank of england's monetary policy committee, has rightly said that if the votes are kept secret, the pressure will be on in secret, and that will be even worse. the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs has finally withdrawn the relevant part of the draft resolution to avoid any trouble with mr duisenberg, and the european parliament has just given its approval to this resignation. this is a bigger deal than it looks. firstly, it shows the timidity, even complacency, of the european parliament's control. secondly, it should be remembered that voting advertising is permitted in all the major central banks of the world, particularly in the united states and japan. why should the european central bank be an exception? why should she play a more opaque game ? the answer is simple: the central banks i have just mentioned work each within the framework of a single nation, whereas the european central bank works with several nations and peoples. because of this difference in situation, it is much more afraid than the others of the exploitation of its internal conflicts by one or another of the member states. and to counter that danger, it's forced to be half as transparent. the european central bank, because it has jurisdiction over an area which is too heterogeneous, must distance itself even more from social reality. in doing so, it may calm the game in the immediate on this or that vote, but it is condemned in the long run by cutting off from the people. it is understood that under these circumstances i cannot approve either the european parliament resolution or the ecb's annual report for 1998.
in writing. - as a former member of the economic and monetary affairs committee, i have read the first annual report of the european bank with great attention and i try to follow its work closely. i therefore agree with the rapporteur when he deplores the lack of transparency at the ecb. while some progress has been made, it is still largely insufficient in relation to the information provided by the other central banks. given its high degree of independence, it is essential that the ecb ensures a high level of transparency in its monetary policy decision-making. that would be a guarantee of his credibility. i find it regrettable, for example, that mr duisenberg opposes the publication of detailed minutes of meetings, which is a common practice in many central banks. i support the proposal by the committee on economic and monetary affairs to request that the ep be provided with brief accounts of the meetings of the governing council, explicitly stating the arguments 'for' or 'against' the decisions taken and the reasons for those decisions. it also seems to me essential, for the sake of effective cooperation between the ecb and the ep, that the president of the ecb be prepared to be accountable for every monetary decision of significant importance. i would also like to stress one of the demands that the ep makes to the ecb. the latter must strive to think about monetary policy in terms of sustainable growth and employment. the objective of price stability is not an end in itself, it must contribute to growth and job creation. i take this opportunity to speak about the ecb to address a problem that is close to my heart and that i have had the opportunity to denounce on several occasions: the bank charges that some banks impose on euro transactions. the problems are far from being solved and continue to be felt badly by european citizens in the euro area. an initiative must be taken as soon as possible to put an end to these practices, which have been repeatedly denounced by the european parliament and the european commission.
- madam president, the tampere council, which has just been devoted to the european area of freedom, security and justice, took some good technical decisions to intensify cooperation in the fight against crime and to promote judicial coordination, for example by means of a wider use of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in civil or criminal matters which you yourself, madam president, recommended in your introductory speech. but more generally, and particularly when it dealt with immigration issues, the council found itself in two contradictions, both of which, moreover, refer to its lack of political courage or to the mutual paralysis of its members, we do not know. first contradiction: whereas the amsterdam treaty proudly gave itself the means to make immigration issues fully community-wide, the tampere council is suddenly more cautious. it is as if the heads of state and government, who are always ready to subscribe to the major european principles in the treaties, which do not commit to anything, were suddenly horrified by the practical consequences of this new text. the difference in tone is so obvious that it is hard to believe that the same men signed the amsterdam treaty and the tampere conclusions six months apart. the contradiction becomes frankly laughable in the case of the french government which, in the treaty of amsterdam, subscribed to the financial and physical distribution of refugees among the countries of the union, and which now shrinks from the consequences of its own signature. second contradiction: the tampere council shows a platonic desire to manage migration flows and to combat illegal immigration at its source, but at the same time it loudly proclaims, on several occasions, that legal immigrants must be given, i quote, 'a set of uniform rights as close as possible to those of union citizens' and that an integration policy allowing them to stay must be put in place as a matter of priority. this is all nonsense. it is clear that the more rights we give to legal immigrants, the more we attract others, including illegal immigrants who hope to be regularised someday. how long will it be before the council and the commission realise, once again, the disastrous practical consequences of the principles they are promoting?
- the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the restructuring of enterprises in the face of globalisation. i give the floor to mrs diamantopoulou, who will speak on behalf of the commission.
commission - (el) ladies and gentlemen, the michelin case is an opportunity to bring the crucial question of industrial restructuring back into the spotlight. we are indeed living in a period of profound change in industry and in business in general, due to various causes, starting, of course, with the complex phenomenon of globalisation. the liberalisation of capital, the removal of economic frontiers, the transformation of patterns due to advanced technologies and the information society, global competition are all elements which are frequently factors in restructuring and violent upheavals of industrial production. it is certain that this restructuring is foreseeable and that it can be carried out in many ways. the michelin press release and the announcement that 7 500 jobs will be lost over the next three years have raised a deep concern which i share and which concerns not only the company in question but what is happening and will now be happening in all european companies, large and small. realism leads me to say that no restructuring can be smooth sailing and without problems. but restructuring can be prudent, in other words it can take into account the social and economic cost, or it can be short-sighted, i.e. consider the immediate economic cost and pay the social cost much later, because there are many factors that have a negative impact on a company that neglects the social dimension. our objective, of course, is what i have just called prudent restructuring, and there are three key elements that many companies have taken into account, because we have dealt in the past in the european union with the two types of behaviour i have just mentioned. a prudent restructuring first of all involves providing for the employability of the persons concerned. obviously, this is both a right and a duty of the company itself. the company must have a strategic plan for the employability of the persons concerned. secondly, there is no reason why workers should not be warned in time, informed in detail and consulted on possible restructuring which could, at a lower social cost, produce the same results. the european union currently has an institutional framework which consists of two directives: one on collective redundancies and the other on the european works council. they represent a minimum set of requirements to which a company intending to restructure can refer. as far as today's debate is concerned, there is nothing to indicate at this stage that the company in question has broken the rules in force. we have a long time ahead of us to consider the next initiatives. but it is clear that, as in the present case, in view of the very important changes taking place around us, we can only change our way of dealing with them. existing rules often need to be improved, changed or replaced by new rules. that is why in november 1998 the european commission put forward a directive on information and consultation of workers which has so far received the support of parliament, and i think that the current debate on michelin will give rise to further action on our part in support of this directive. but it is certain that we are living in a time when legislation alone cannot solve the very large problem of restructuring firms, especially at a time when european industry is not only facing competition within the union's borders but must successfully face competition on a global scale. in earlier cases, such as the renault case, the commission had asked experts to examine the question of restructuring in the light of job losses. the gillenhammer report, which parliament has read, has been drawn up and contains a number of proposals which we could follow. the first concerns the creation of an observatory, on which a final decision will be taken in january, and i reserve the right to discuss this with the european parliament to see whether it is necessary to set up an observatory for smes which would inform about the changes to be made but would also have, at national level, a liaison function with local observatories so that companies are as prepared as possible for the signs of the times. the point i wish to raise now is that of social dialogue. the responsibility for social dialogue lies with the social partners and there are certain initiatives that they could take as part of their collective social responsibility. the first is that employability of workers is an aspect of national policy as well as of the workers and the enterprise itself. the employer is obliged to preserve the employability of the worker, the worker is obliged to participate in continuous information and in the continuous development of his abilities and qualifications. negotiations between employers and workers on continuing training mechanisms are one of the major aspects of the social dialogue. i would like to point out that i will have my first official meeting with the european social partners at the beginning of november and that this issue is one of the main items on the agenda. finally, i would add that, drawing again on the proposals and ideas of the gillenhammer report, i intend to send a letter to all companies employing more than a thousand people at european level, asking them to draw up, on a voluntary basis, a report entitled 'managing change' which will serve as a kind of reference point for large companies on how to plan restructuring without causing acute social problems. i think it is important to recall a number of measures which have been taken at european union level in the field of company restructuring. i will mention very briefly: the decision taken a few days ago on the implementation of the plan for high-risk capital investment, which the commission approved last week and which is an important tool, especially for newly created small businesses; measures to promote cross-border innovation; measures to encourage the mobility of employees by transferring their rights and pensions; special programmes for their training; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in all member states. we are dealing with a particular case today which is not a model to be imitated. a particular case where we are told of profits and a large number of job cuts at the same time. it is clear that the european union will do everything possible, as it is obliged to do, and at all levels, to help free competition, the area of free and healthy competition in which european companies operate. but it is equally clear that the union must defend what it can be proud of in the face of history - the european social model. restructuring and modernisation of enterprises cannot take place without victims. as i said earlier, while restructuring cannot be easy, it can be controlled, planned and carried out at a passing social cost. i am convinced that the proposals in the legislative field and especially the proposals in the field of cooperation between the social partners constitute a basis for tackling these major problems of our time.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i want to begin my speech, as the representative of the group of the party of european socialists, in the debate on the restructuring of enterprises with the message from the michelin employees, a message which i heard in the form of three 'nons', which my colleague mr pronk was not pleased to hear. no, ladies and gentlemen, in a balanced and prosperous europe it is no longer acceptable to hear a company announce both a 17% increase in profits and the elimination of 7 500 jobs. no, ladies and gentlemen, it is not moral to see the stock market value of this company rise by 12% following this announcement, thus creating a surplus value for the shareholders, without a single additional element of wealth being created, quite the contrary. no, ladies and gentlemen, employees can no longer rely on the truncated, distorted or even false information which the michelin bosses disseminate in an attempt to justify their decision. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, this new and serious case, which has shaken the media and the political world in france, shows, if it were still necessary, the urgency of strong and relevant measures in europe to finally reconcile economic performance with social guarantees, growth and employment, freedom of enterprise and the defence of employees. the european socialists demand this and have therefore put forward a number of proposals. first, a direct link between public aid and agreements including a reduction in working hours with financial penalties for companies that do not respect their commitments even though they have received public funds. the socialists also call for an assessment of the application of the european directive on collective redundancies, accompanied by proposals for improvements to make it simply effective in defending employment and defending employees. the european socialists insist, finally, that the european directive on the establishment of a european works council be revised so that employees are given real information, in normal time and at the right time, and real consultations are carried out, which presupposes that sufficient resources are granted in good time and that independent expertise is provided for employees. without these minimum measures and a few others, together with concrete measures against relocations within the european union and other measures against social dumping outside, the european social model, so dear to some of our politicians, including those on the right, will never be more than empty talk, which would help to reinforce the anti-european sentiment that is widespread in our countries and among many employees. it is often said, ladies and gentlemen, that progress is only worth sharing, and this means that in a world of constant change we must stop putting the burden of the efforts and sacrifices on the workers and then make it a priority for the richest and most powerful to benefit from the positive effects of these efforts and sacrifices. it is high time for action at council and commission level, and i dare say this at the end of my speech, because what is at stake is of course the cohesion of our societies, social peace, the very survival of the european idea, but also the interests of business as a whole and therefore the soundness of the european economy.
- madam commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commissioner's speech was more about smes than the concerns of the michelin employees who are represented here. born and living in clermont ferrand, the birthplace and headquarters of michelin, it is in this capacity, among other things, that i have received them on several occasions. the simultaneous announcements of the loss of 7 500 jobs and the huge increase in profits, the closure of the wolber-michelin plant in soissons - described as a communication error by the company's managers - demonstrate the cynicism and disdain that drive the industrial strategy of this multinational. other examples are still in our memory: renault vilvorde, the french banking system, the large distribution companies, not to mention daewoo. all these companies, which have been setting up redundancy plans year after year, have benefited from european and national subsidies without being accountable at any time for the use of these funds. i believe that our institution must be at the heart of the concerns of millions of europeans who are unemployed or who fear being unemployed. we must therefore be firm and clear on three points: first and foremost, we must ensure that the money received by large companies is used for the purpose of ensuring that jobs are maintained. on the eve of the opening of the wto negotiations, it is worth recalling that any strategy of companies - including multinationals - must take account, alongside economic and financial data, of human data if millions of european workers are to be able to keep their jobs and their dignity. finally, at the time when a european "michelin" establishment committee has just been established, community legislation must be amended so that employees or their representatives, who are affected by plans for collective redundancy for economic reasons, can be brought to justice without waiting for the dismissal to be pronounced before the territorial court with jurisdiction and challenge the basis of this decision. this is the spirit of the resolution we are proposing and it is only on these conditions that europe will be able to play its political role in enabling the economic development of enterprises to be truly sustainable and in protecting the rights of workers, who are, let us never forget, its vital force.
- mr president, commissioner, i am glad that this debate on the wave of company restructuring we are witnessing and the accompanying job bleeding has been able to take place in the european parliament. my group had expressed this wish in the 'michelin' case. in other words - and this has just been repeated - the simultaneous announcement by the management of this large company, in front of financial analysts, of substantial profits on the one hand and the decision to cut 7,500 jobs in europe on the other. if this initiative was immediately welcomed by the stock exchange - where the stock took a leap forward - it has, on the other hand, aroused a very strong indignation in large sectors of public opinion, particularly in france but also elsewhere, as i have been able to see for myself. in a way, the cynicism of the michelin method has had the effect of multiplying tenfold the phenomenon of rejection which is increasingly caused by this very modern capitalist strategy, the so-called shareholder value strategy, the creation of value for the shareholder, which consists in subordinating everything in the first place to the bulimic demands of the financial shareholders of the company, these costs which are unbearable in their eyes, which are represented by jobs. unfortunately, michelin is far from being an exception in this respect. its provocative announcement is part of a real gangrene which we cannot allow to develop without reacting, unless we ourselves renounce all control over economic and social development and consequently the ambition to promote a european social model in globalisation. this is the case for olivetti, which, after finding the capital necessary for its juicy takeover bid on télécom italia, planned to cut 13 000 jobs; for alcatel, which, in order to regain the confidence of its financial shareholders, announced in the same move 15 billion francs, or 2.3 billion euros of net profit and 12 000 job cuts; for the banking sector, where the arrival of the euro has given a real blow to job-devouring mergers and acquisitions and moved the banking business to financial activities, if not speculative. the sad record is held by renault, which, by liquidating nissan jobs, is satisfying its shareholders and is about to export europe's most odious image to japan, not without, by ricochets, eliminating several thousand jobs in the european union itself. so what can we do ? there is the matter of governments, and in particular the reform of the laws on so-called "economic" redundancies. under no circumstances should a thriving company be allowed to reduce its workforce or even lay off employees. then there is the matter of the european union. our parliament amended the directive on information and consultation of workers last january, madam commissioner. we are still waiting for the commission to take up these amendments. but i think that today we have to go further. for example: a six-month grace period for any restructuring plan should be imposed on companies to allow for independent union expertise; if the company has received public aid - it has been said - including european aid, non-compliance with the established rules should lead to their reimbursement; in the same spirit, the role of the european works councils directive and the protection of staff delegates should be considerably strengthened. it is therefore up to the commission to submit to us as soon as possible two revised proposals for directives. finally, on the eve of the opening of the wto negotiations, i would like to stress the need for europe to assert its political will, including in the field of industrial policy, with 'employment, wealth creation and territorial development' at its centre. in the face of new technologies and the information revolution, there is room for a new conception of productivity, based not on the rationing of social spending but on the promotion of human capacities. contrary to the current tendency to deregulate everything, the european union can, if it wishes, provide itself with the instruments to promote such a policy, from taxation of speculative operations to the introduction of selective credit to encourage job creation and deter mass job cuts. my group will be contacting the main european trade union organisations to exchange our experiences and, if necessary, launch a european petition to allow our fellow citizens to influence future decisions. there has been a vilvorde effect, mr president, and we all remember the magnitude of it, but it has not translated into new rules. we want the michelin effect to bring about real change. i think that it is at this stage that our fellow citizens, faced with the restructuring we are discussing today, will be able to gauge the real extent of our solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, arrogant and demagogic, the european political class has found the perfect scapegoat to blame for its own economic depravities. those on the left who today denounce the michelin job cuts have overwhelmingly endorsed the ultra-liberal economic policies of the european union, as defined in the maastricht and amsterdam treaties. my dear colleagues, you actively support globalisation, but you shout loudly when european companies try to adapt to the harmful rules you have created and the economic environment you are imposing on them. so have the courage to face the truth: michelin employees are not the victims of michelin management, they are your victims, you who are the merchants of globalism, as are your victims the employees of the banking, insurance, automobile and many other sectors, whose companies merge, relocate or restructure in order to survive. your globalised economy is the globalisation of unemployment and the certainty of widespread social regression. the socialist or liberal governments and the european commission, also subject to the dogma of globalism, are co-responsible for this situation. they have continually deceived and manipulated the european workers. they are capitulating in the open, even before the opening of the millennium round negotiations, by refusing to fight effectively against social dumping, by refusing to impose a necessary social clause, by refusing to accept the principle of community preference. thus, by promoting the free movement of capital worldwide and by seeking to liberalize investment even further, european governments are turning anglo-saxon pension funds into the real rulers of the economic and financial markets. tomorrow these stateless multinationals will be the uncontrolled masters of the economy, but also of the new world order you so eagerly desire. the only policy that can guarantee full employment for european workers is to win back the internal market, to protect it against unfair competition, to abandon criminal and antisocial globalisation, and to re-establish the necessary rule of community preference. in short, it is about producing european products, in europe, with europeans.
- mr president, we will be very interested in the conclusions of the inquiry you are going to carry out because we are also signatories to this resolution and we have made the same finding. what we have been saying to each other since a moment ago is that the aim of a growing number of company restructurings is to give shareholders ever greater guarantees and to guarantee them ever greater returns on their financial investments. this is why the management of the michelin group announced at the same time the elimination of 7 500 jobs and of spectacular profits. this is why, as you have pointed out, the announcement of redundancy plans is always followed by an increase in the share prices of the companies concerned. this violent expression of contempt for workers and their lives is fundamentally contrary to the stated objectives of employment, social and territorial cohesion and the european social model. what do you want the employees, in the process of being dismissed in soissons at the wolbert-michelin plant, to think of these objectives and our determination to achieve them? the social despair generated by these decisions inevitably turns into political despair and this political despair is a constant threat to democracy. this is why the european union must act in accordance with its words and must live up to its commitments to employment and the right to live in dignity. how can it do so now, in the immediate future, when faced with the unilateral and brutal decisions of the big groups? it must first of all condemn this type of decision unequivocally and support the employees concerned. no, mr pronk, the decisions of the major groups are not divine right. it is the responsibility of politicians to intervene and say what they think. the european union must also acknowledge the end of the magic equation shared by all the european institutions, according to which growth plus competitiveness would necessarily equate to employment and development. that's not true, it's been proven! the consequences of this will have to be drawn if we are to reconsider the foundations of our european employment strategy and our broad economic guidelines. we must provide for the extension of the power of employees and their representatives to assert their right to protest on the basis of the economic grounds for dismissal, which we call the wolbert-michelin amendment and which we will put to your vote tomorrow. it is not acceptable that the definition and management of the general interest should be confiscated by economic decision-makers. it is not by bowing to the shareholders or by injecting authoritarian nationalist populism... (the president cut the speaker off)
- mr president, in this debate i want to speak against the scandalous decision of michelin to lay off 7 500 people, when its profits are high. of course, i am equally appalled by the plans to cut jobs at renault-nissan, alsthom, rhône-poulenc and hoechst marion roussel, and many other companies. they all have in common that they make huge profits and still throw workers out on the streets, or they cut jobs, which has almost as serious consequences, because a job lost is another unemployed person. the companies that do this, their bosses, their large shareholders, are the main ones responsible for the seriousness of unemployment and the material and even moral misery it causes. we are in favour of a ban on redundancies in all profitable enterprises, or else we will be forced to resign. to promote the enrichment of a handful of large shareholders by pushing tens of thousands of women and men towards unemployment and poverty is a criminal act, and i weigh my words. the profits of enterprises are the result of the work of all: they must be used as a priority to maintain existing jobs and create new ones, by distributing the work without reducing wages.
- mr president, the european union must have a competitive industry which creates wealth and therefore jobs. this means that within the union, we must achieve genuine coordination of tax policies and the definition of comparable social standards for all in order to avoid the distortions of competition which are still too pronounced today. it also means that our companies must be equipped to cope with and adapt to globalisation. this globalisation, we may regret it, but it exists. it is up to us to organise it to avoid its negative aspects. in this context, we are faced with the difficult problem of relocations: difficult, because they are obviously job-destroying in europe; the european union is not only a major player in the world economy, but also a major player in the world economy. as regards the michelin case, since everyone is talking about it - although we all said that it was not about that - on the very day of the announcement of the job cuts at michelin, pirelli was doing the same thing, in the same proportions, but nobody is talking about it. today, michelin has 82 production sites, 48 of which are in europe. i would very much like to know how many car companies, including public ones, and how many tyre companies, including semi-public ones, have the same presence in europe today and have not already relocated quietly and sometimes with the blessing of governments, including those on the left. today, we must tell the truth. it is true that michelin has reduced its workforce by 25 000 in 20 years, but i remind some people that 25 000 jobs have disappeared as a result of comparable productivity efforts in all industrial sectors, particularly the automobile and tyre sectors, 25 000 of which only 186 were redundancies. we are told: but look at the profits in the stock market. sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but the stock market profits, look at them for all companies for a year, for two years, and i remind mr. wurtz that he or his friends are part of a government that does nothing to stop the stock market profits.
- mr president, commissioner, at this stage of the debate, a lot has been said. this allows us to take up some ideas as a conclusion. this resolution on industrial restructuring is being tabled today because one company - michelin - has decided to lay off 7 500 people. the situation is of course dramatic, but it is interesting to note that we can now speak of industrial restructuring not just from an economic point of view but also in terms of the human problems involved. i think that this resolution is well connected with the michelin situation. to cut 7 500 jobs today, when neither the industrial nor the financial results of a company allow these redundancies to be attributed to any crisis, is completely unacceptable from the point of view of the law alone. from a human standpoint, this is not only unacceptable but also indecent and immoral. when a simple communication operation allows the price of a company to rise by 12%, when no value has been created, no additional tyre has been produced or sold, and when it is suggested that wealth could simply appear spontaneously on the financial markets, this is a total disregard for human labour. while shareholders sell shares and make capital gains, women and men learn that they alone will suffer. this is the price european workers have to pay for a few investors to maximize their returns. in the measures proposed, commissioner, you spoke to us about the social cost and how it is to be taken into account in the long term. it is obviously essential and urgent that a strengthening of the directive on collective redundancies and the directive on european works councils should complete this system. it is equally essential that new forms of social redistribution be considered, financed by the shareholders of successful companies who lay off employees solely to boost their share prices. finally, we are waiting for an explanation as to whether we can vote on this compromise resolution which will remove the name michelin. in any event, this debate is a good illustration of the political division which divides this house and which does not disappear in so-called 'compromise' resolutions.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the european union wants the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear tests to enter into force as soon as possible. all eu countries whose ratification is required for entry into force have done so - including france and britain, states with nuclear weapons. the eu believes that the ctbt (comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty) is an important step towards nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament and that its entry into force is in the interest of all states. the european union therefore deeply regrets the decision taken on 13 october by the united states senate not to ratify the nuclear test ban treaty. this decision has a detrimental influence on multilateral efforts to promote nuclear non-proliferation and disarmament. the disappointment caused by this decision was expressed in the statement made on 13 october by the president of the european union. the tampere summit also issued a declaration on the prohibition of nuclear testing. we have underlined the support of the european union for the nuclear test ban treaty in the eu-us political dialogue. in the light of what has just happened, it should be noted that mr clinton has assured that he will do his utmost to ensure that the united states ratifies the treaty as soon as possible. mr clinton said that the united states would refrain from nuclear tests in the future. the international credibility of the nuclear test ban is strong. efforts to ban nuclear testing have a long history dating back to the 1950s. after difficult negotiations, the un general assembly accepted the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty (ctbt) in september 1996. the treaty has been signed by 155 states and ratified by 51. of the 44 states with nuclear technology, whose ratification is, according to article xiv of the treaty, a condition for the treaty to enter into force, 26 have ratified it. the strong international reaction to the nuclear tests by india and pakistan last year showed that nuclear tests are strongly condemned by international opinion, regardless of the country that carries them out. the european union adopted a common position in july 1999 with the aim of strengthening eu cooperation in international efforts related to the entry into force of the ctbt. on the basis of this common position, the eu actively participated in the conference in accordance with article xiv of the treaty, which took place in vienna from 6 to 8 october. in addition, the eu has held bilateral talks with all countries that have not yet signed or ratified the treaty, but whose ratification is necessary for its entry into force, with a view to its entry into force. these efforts to bring the treaty into force must be pursued with determination. the eu calls on all countries, and in particular those, including the united states, whose ratification is a condition for the entry into force of the treaty, to accede to the treaty as soon as possible. the european union considers the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons to be a central instrument of the international security system, which provides a comprehensive framework for the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, as well as for nuclear disarmament. the nuclear test ban treaty supports this non-proliferation system. the european union is preparing to participate constructively in the conference on the non-proliferation treaty to be held in april-may 2000. the nuclear test ban treaty is unique in its nature. it prevents all nuclear tests, anywhere, even "peaceful" nuclear tests which were the subject of a heated theoretical debate in the 1960s, at the time of the birth of the non-proliferation treaty. compliance with the nuclear test ban treaty is monitored by a comprehensive verification system, the central part of which is a global monitoring system consisting of 321 technical measurement stations. the verification system shall also include instructions for carrying out on-the-spot checks where there is reason to suspect that the treaty has been violated. the verification system is efficient and allows for a high degree of reliability in monitoring compliance with the treaty. the verification system strengthens the maintenance of confidential relations between the contracting parties. the european union is actively involved in vienna in the preparatory work for the establishment of the organization for the application of the treaty and the monitoring system. the union supports the efforts of the preparatory commission of the ctbt to establish, in a timely and effective manner, a monitoring system, as provided for in the treaty.
the commission shares the disappointment expressed by the presidency of the council at the decision of the us senate not to ratify the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. as honourable members know, this treaty, which dates back to the non-proliferation treaty of the late 1960s, is the result of decades of hard work, decades of determined work to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons. it is a key element of the international strategy to control, reduce and ultimately eliminate the risk of nuclear conflict. the ratification of the treaty by the present nuclear powers is essential to support our efforts to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons to other countries. as the presidency has stressed, the european union is and remains fully committed to the pursuit of these objectives. we have endeavoured to bring this treaty into force as soon as possible. with the exception of one member state, the fifteen have already ratified the treaty and the ratification procedures are being completed in the fifteenth state. i know the american administration shares our goals. president clinton and his team redoubled their efforts to get congressional approval to ratify the treaty. they, like us, have understood how important it is that we are at the forefront of the movement to get the 44 ratifications needed for the treaty to enter into force. it is therefore all the more regrettable that the senate has voted against ratification. he seems to have acted as much for reasons of us domestic policy as for his assessment of the value of this treaty to us and international security. as reflected in the proposal before us today, i think he has made a very serious mistake. by refusing to approve the treaty, it is giving a chance to the states which we wanted to join the commitments laid down in the treaty and whose ratification is a condition for its entry into force. what is the message to russia and china? will this vote help to convince countries such as india and pakistan to ratify the treaty? this unfortunate vote could even encourage other countries' nuclear aspirations and push them to go over the line by testing their own nuclear devices. at this stage, any such nuclear test could ruin all the work that has gone into this treaty. it would undermine international support and confidence in multilateral arms control efforts. more seriously, it could lead to reciprocal action in other countries via nuclear testing or the strengthening of nuclear programmes. the senate's refusal to approve the treaty's ratification is a setback, not an irreparable defeat. we must demonstrate more than ever our commitment to the treaty and redouble our efforts to promote its early entry into force. this is essential to maintain the international momentum towards a permanent arms limitation and a stricter global non-proliferation regime. the commission has shown unwavering support for an ambitious community policy on non-proliferation issues. wherever possible, we have supplemented cfsp initiatives in this area with actions falling within community competence. for example, we have contributed to the development and strengthening of an effective nuclear safeguard system in europe, including the russian federation, under the euratom treaty. activities in this field are financially supported under the phare and tacis programmes. we are now considering extending these activities to other areas such as safeguards for chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction. the common strategy towards russia also includes specific provisions on non-proliferation. in this context, we are examining the extent of cooperation with the united states on the initiative to weaken the threat thus strengthened. accession to this treaty is also a crucial element of our policy towards south asia, as the presidency has stressed. following the nuclear tests carried out by india and pakistan, the commission took part in the international task force set up to increase confidence and develop security measures and to bring these countries to constructive discussions on regional non-proliferation and arms control. in recent years, remarkable progress has been made in international arms control, non-proliferation and disarmament, whether through bilateral or multilateral efforts. in the multilateral context, the ratification of the treaty and the revision of the non-proliferation treaty scheduled for next year will be of crucial importance in reaffirming past commitments and building a platform capable of supporting future progress. to achieve this, we must work with the united states and other major partners. the united states' leading role has been essential in the development of the global non-proliferation regime. i hope that we can encourage our american friends to take up this role again. we should do everything we can to convince congress of the importance of the ctbt to us, to the united states and to international nonproliferation efforts. i can assure you that the commission will continue to contribute to this objective. i also think that all members have a special role to play in this respect. i hope that you will take every opportunity to explain and demonstrate to your colleagues in the us senate why they should reconsider their vote on this treaty and how a renewed commitment to international non-proliferation and arms control will serve the security of the united states and, more broadly, international security and stability. in this wonderful newspaper, the international herald tribune, you can read today the abridged version of a recent speech by sandy berger, the president's national security adviser, to the council on foreign relations. he points out that american opponents of treaties similar to the one we are debating have overlooked the fact that the united states has already stopped testing and that the treaty has helped to freeze the global development of nuclear weapons even though the united states enjoys a huge strategic advantage. to paraphrase it in an unattractive but appropriate way, i hope that the fallout from this regrettable policy decision can be contained. i know that's the american administration's intention. that's what we all want. u.s. senators and congressmen should assume the responsibilities that come with their country's position in the world. this position emphasises bipartisanship on foreign policy in general and nuclear security in particular. failure to recognize it condemns us all to live in a world that is far less safe.
- mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, you have just very fully recalled the importance of this ban treaty, which is essentially aimed at strengthening the provisions of the non-proliferation treaty and, with it, at keeping the development of nuclear weapons under control, and thus limiting the proliferation of these weapons and the technologies necessary for their development. the treaty, which was opened for signature three years ago, was signed on the first day by the five permanent nuclear powers on the united nations security council. but to enter into force, it must be ratified by 44 states, designated by name and including the nuclear-weapon states, but also the so-called threshold states, that is to say those which, because they possess civil reactors, could master military technologies. on 13 october this treaty was defeated in the us senate by 51 votes to 48 and one abstention. that is to say, the margin was very narrow and it could therefore be useful - and it will certainly be useful - for our parliament to make its voice heard after that of the heads of government who, in tampere, deplored the attitude of the us senate, stressing that it was, and i quote: 'an inappropriate signal to those who would be tempted to acquire nuclear weapons'. among the arguments put forward in the united states was that the time was not right to give up nuclear testing, as north korea is making efforts to develop its own weapons and china continues to develop its arsenal. others questioned the validity of the simulation and felt that to ensure the long-term credibility of nuclear deterrence, testing should not be banned. finally, others have questioned the application of this treaty, which it must be admitted will be difficult to monitor once the 381 stations mentioned by the council representative have been deployed. it is not certain that they will have the means to detect low-power nuclear explosions in an environment that will not always allow them to be distinguished from earthquakes. but all this is of little importance in the face of the geopolitical challenge we face, which is to control, as effectively as possible, the production of weapons of mass destruction. i am glad that commissioner patten has mentioned that the threat does not come only from nuclear weapons. having spent my life in the service of arms, i know that force is neutral in itself and that it is the use of force that can be good or evil. the emergence of nuclear weapons has at least had the merit of making political leaders aware of the risks that could be posed by their use. the balance of terror during the forty years of the cold war probably helped to avoid a third world war. so the deterrence strategy may have had its merits. if we fail to prevent the spread of these weapons, we run the risk that they will end up in the hands of the irresponsible. i am therefore aware of this risk and i am approving the resolution which will be submitted to the house for approval tomorrow.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by emphasizing the importance of mr graça moura's report. the construction of a cultural europe is now as necessary as the political construction of an economic and monetary europe. whether it is a cultural policy objective or the promotion of cultural activities, the result is the same: the budget allocated to the culture 2000 programme is ridiculously low. the committee on culture, youth, education, media and sport is asking for €250 million, but it has been given €167.33 million a year. is that admissible? community expenditure on culture is 0.003%. is it really relevant to welcome the progress of such a budget? mrs reding herself, at the september hearing, spoke of cultural action as a delayed legitimisation. so let us make up for an obvious shortfall for all by means of an appropriate budget. the rapporteur also stresses the link between culture and citizenship. i believe that a better balance is needed between budgets for large-scale cultural events and targeted projects. the construction of european citizenship requires the involvement of individuals and not just institutions. in view of this budgetary timidity, let me make one final comment. what can we say about a europe that is rightly proud to defend cultural diversity in the face of future wto negotiations if we are not able to support this cultural expression in practice? i would not like the culture budget to be inversely proportional to our ambition.
commission - (de) mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs gröner on her commitment and energy to this project. i would also like to thank the members of the committee, because it is to them that we owe the opportunity to vote today on a draft which young people should be able to have very quickly. the speed was imperative; you acted quickly. i thank you on behalf of the commission.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0024/1999) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the proposal for a council decision on the participation of the community in the european audiovisual observatory (com (1999) 111 - c5-0019/1999 - 1999/0066cns)).
commission. - (it) mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. he did a thorough and quick job. i thank you, mr president gargani.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0023/1999) on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision amending the basic decision on the socrates programme to include turkey among the beneficiary countries (8076/1/1999 - c5-0024/1999 - 1996/0130 (cod)) and on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision amending the basic decision on the youth for europe iii programme to include turkey among the beneficiary countries (8077/1/1999 - c5-0025/1999 - 1996/013 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr gargani).
commission. - mr president, i have listened carefully to the positions of the members. the commission is convinced that turkey's participation in programmes which primarily concern young people, exchange and meeting programmes which strengthen civil society, democracy and respect for human rights, will promote understanding and goodwill between peoples and cultures. at first reading, the commission agreed with the amendments proposed by the committee on culture, and i thank its rapporteur for that, which are aimed at encouraging the implementation of preparatory actions. the turkish structures which will manage the new generation of socrates and youth for europe programmes could not start their work without prior training and technical assistance. it is also clear that we will not be elitist, but will help the part of civil society that needs it most, including, madam president, minorities. although the decisions on turkey's eligibility under the current proposals do not allow for immediate effective participation of turkey in the programmes, they will allow the european union to send a positive signal to turkish civil society and to reiterate its willingness to develop sectoral cooperation with turkey. you are right, if turkey changes, it will change through its youth and because its youth has changed.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97). (the sitting was closed at 8.10 p.m.)
must_be_checked_more
- madam president, in concluding my speech in yesterday's debate on the restructuring of companies, i pointed out to the presidency that an anomaly had crept into the joint resolution which we are going to vote on at the end of the day. the resolution i signed on behalf of my group on tuesday contained a reference to michelin in the final paragraph. the text has now been circulated and only the english and spanish versions mention this reference, which has disappeared in the other languages. according to the explanation i obtained from the plenary minutes service, someone from the epp group was contacted and said that this item had been deleted. madam president, the authors of the resolution and the signatories of the joint resolution were not consulted. as far as i am concerned, and as far as the other signatories are concerned, this reference must be retained in the text to be put to the vote today. (applause from the left)
- (de) madam president, i do not take the floor now to argue that i have followed closely the events of the last few days. i am not an expert like mrs plooij-van gorsel or mr pronk. i would like to stress, however, that the agreements reached - also in the conference of presidents - must be respected. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to recall that during the conference of presidents - my neighbours pat cox, mrs hautala, mr barón crespo and others will remember this - we discussed whether we should deal with the michelin case or whether we should deal with globalisation and business restructuring in general. the unanimous decision of the presidents was that the discussion would not be about michelin in particular, but about the restructuring of companies in the context of globalisation in general. that's what we agreed. now, whenever the name michelin appears in any language, i ask myself the following question: who is responsible for this? that doesn't fit the defined rules of the game. i object to the fact that the texts contain points which have not been negotiated. my group won 't sign the agreement ! i ask all groups to respect the principles of correction and the mutual agreements. (applause from the right)
- ladies and gentlemen, i do not think we can prolong this debate too long. we have a very clear picture of the situation. i must say that, having chaired this conference of presidents, i have the same memories as those just mentioned.
- madam president, i'm speaking on this resolution. for us the case is very simple: we have signed a document which clearly mentions michelin, so for us the compromise is clear on this point. if there were any ambiguity or if the term michelin were not to be used against the signature we have formulated, of course that signature would no longer be valid.
- i'm all right. it's very clear. we got it.
- (es) madam president, it was actually i who proposed that the emergency should be transformed into a more general debate on globalisation, which the conference of presidents accepted. i also proposed that the name of the company, which we advertise and which is in parentheses in the title, be deleted. that was agreed, but we are talking about something else here: a motion for a resolution was tabled in which, in the last paragraph, there is a question almost of courtesy, and the fact is that the resolution was going to be sent to the president of this company. what's happening is that the transaction resolution that was presented was named that. the question is very simple: those who are against the reference to the resolution in the resolution can ask for a separate vote. but it is not appropriate to amend a motion for a resolution at the same time in the relevant body of parliament without informing the signatories. the resolution on the fisheries agreement suffered the same problem, because it was amended without the signatories' knowledge. i therefore ask the president to carry out a thorough check in the register for unauthorised amendments to the proposals, which i believe is a problem of alteration and falsification of a public document of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i take this opportunity of the adoption of the minutes to inform you that, as we have announced, mr turco and i will not be taking part in the vote today. as regards the minutes themselves, on page 7, where mrs bonino's speech is mentioned and it is stated that mr corbett and mr madelin spoke, i think that a minutes should better reflect the statements made by the authors. in particular, mr madelin spoke in support of this proposal. i think it would be logical to have that in the minutes.
- (it) madam president, i would like to say that as of this morning i am joining the fight being waged by the radical group in favour of the independent technical group. i join them in order to improve the general situation of parliament and the non-attached group. i shall therefore not take part in the vote on the report or on the other points, and i shall join them in declaring a strike.
- (de) madam president, at the beginning of the sitting you not only mentioned the tragic events in armenia but also indicated that you would send a message of condolence. as chairman of the delegation for relations between the european union and armenia, i would like to thank you for this. we are all shocked by the tragedy that occurred last night in the armenian parliament. the head of the government, the president of the assembly and several other people were murdered there. we must ask ourselves whether peaceful development is now possible in armenia. the attack has plunged the young republic, which is located in the immediate vicinity of chechnya, into a state of emergency, the consequences of which are not yet perceptible. i think you share my hope that the independence of armenia will not be affected again. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i want to speak in support of the two speeches which have just taken place. our group was a co-signer of that compromise resolution. it is absolutely unacceptable that such compromise resolutions can be changed without the knowledge of their authors. i therefore ask you, madam president, to take extremely firm action against what has just happened and which is absolutely deplorable.
- i'm sure you are. i'll take care of it. i just said that, and i think we're in agreement.
- (es) madam president, i assume that this problem will be motivated by the fact that ten members, of whom i am one, who are members of the greens/efa group, knew of a joint resolution of the three parliamentary groups and had the idea of supporting it, believing that they were exercising a right which we all have as individual members. in this sense, all ten of us submitted a letter to the register saying that we supported this resolution, that we believed it was common to the epp, pse and uen groups, and that was all. we're completely oblivious to any other problems. but we thought the resolution was so good that we supported it and we still support it. all the rest is pure confusion, which we fail to understand, and in any case we fail to understand why something as normal as the support of a minority group of members for the majority groups is presented in such a problematic way. if you don't want us to support you, just say so and next time we won't. (applause from the green group)
the commission - madam president, i assure the new colleagues, they will not be entitled to a new speech. as mr napolitano would say, when we make a speech, it's different from what i'm about to do now. i would simply like to make a statement on technical points, madam president, before the vote. i should like to point out to the minutes that purely technical or linguistic errors have been found in some of the amendments. the necessary corrections will have to be made to reflect the vote of the committee on budgets. the amendments are as follows: 409, 471, 520, 621, 612, 565, 637 and 459. i can assure my colleagues that there is not the slightest political problem behind these technical corrections. i thank you and hope that the minutes will be able to make the necessary adjustments.
- mr bourlanges, i can confirm that and tell you that the language services have already been made aware of these problems and will make the necessary changes. - the 460th amendment
- (nl) madam president, we are now coming to a series of amendments concerning the reform of administrative expenditure and the restructuring of the technical assistance offices. the question is whether this should be dealt with here, i.e. after a debate in the committee on budgets, or whether it should be discussed in detail in a debate on the reform of the commission in general in the various committees concerned. we are afraid that, with each amendment, the commission's management will not be helped. that is why my group will vote against this amendment. however, many subsequent amendments will contain this specific point. i would therefore like to point out that in future we will only vote on the additional points to these amendments and that our vote on this point will remain valid for the whole vote, otherwise i would have imposed more than twenty separate votes on you.
- for those of us who are less initiated, it may seem a bit complicated, but it's actually quite simple. to the visitors watching us, all of this must seem a bit complicated, too.
- before i continue, i would like to welcome a very important delegation from the french senate, headed by its president, mr christian poncelet, who have honoured us with a visit. (applause) we are very pleased to have you in the european parliament.
- (de) madam president, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, i would like to thank the coordinators of all the groups represented on the committee on budgets for having found this compromise. i also appreciate the generosity of the lead rapporteur who was of a different opinion. that is understandable, and i also know that the chairman of the committee has a different view, but we must respect the hard work put in by all those responsible for the committee on budgets. the committee on agriculture and rural development agrees with this.
- (de) madam president, amendment no 65 tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development is now in the compromise proposal in a slightly modified form, but it is there. thus, plant and animal genetic resources represent a chapter. the council has yet to decide. we have slipped something into the compromise and therefore we must not vote on it. we're taking him out.
- thank you, mr bourlanges. so, mr graefe zu baringdorf, i would like to know whether the chairman of the committee on agriculture is withdrawing this amendment? i did. - the proposal for a directive
- (de) madam president, may i ask why the order of voting has been changed? we see that amendment no 430 on the european year of languages is the next amendment to be put to the vote. can anyone explain this to us, either mr bourlanges or you?
president of the committee on budgets. - madam president, in line with what mr bourlanges said, by voting the last amendment we have now gone beyond the margin of heading 3, which means that any amendment which does not follow the recommendations of the committee on budgets is likely to cause us serious problems. we already have one. we're way over the edge. it is ridiculous to continue to vote like this. i ask you to respect the rapporteur's recommendations on heading 3.
- (sv) madam president, now that parliament has rejected amendment no 443, we have solved the problem. in other words, the european women's lobby is maintained and will get the €600,000. it is maintained both in the accounts and in the explanatory notes. that is exactly what the committee on women's rights unanimously wanted to achieve, and we can therefore now withdraw amendment no 10. we therefore withdraw the proposal contained in amendment no 10, since we have obtained exactly what we wanted with this vote.
the commission - madam president, thank you for your congratulations. we have done a fairly considerable amount of work with the rapporteurs, with the members of the committee on budgets, with all of you, and i am of course very excited to see these votes. i would like to thank all those who voted for this budget, and those who voted against it and who are contributing to the democratic expression. i would like to thank, with particular care, the secretariat of the committee on budgets, which has done an absolutely considerable job. (applause) i would like to thank it takes a rapporteur to know how much the general life of all the staff of the secretariat of the committee on budgets is disrupted by the infernal pace of this procedure, and i think we should be aware of this. apart from that, i would like to say a few words, if i may, to the council and the commission. mr president of the council, madam commissioner, i think you have seen how this parliament was united in fighting not only for its rights but for a number of fundamental changes. the year we are living through has been marked by two fundamental crises: the international crisis in the balkans and the crisis affecting our institutions with the departure of the commission. on these two points, the votes you have cast, ladies and gentlemen, show the determination of our parliament to go ahead and find the necessary solutions to these two problems. tomorrow we will be open to discussion with the council and the commission, but do not doubt, dear friends, the interinstitutional dialogue, do not doubt the determination of this house! (applause from the left)
- mr president, i wanted to say that, unlike mr bourlanges, i voted against this resolution and did not abstain.
- (de) mr president, this is a matter which requires a large majority and which we want to ensure. however, in the present form of this report, there are still some areas of doubt on two points. firstly, there is no clear definition of what members and members are. this point still needs to be clarified. secondly, there is a lack of clarity and a procedure which we do not think is fair, namely that officials must report to other officials the failures of parliament. we believe that when irregularities are found, officials should inform the president of parliament. we still have to debate these questions. that is why we are asking for the report to be referred back to the committee on constitutional affairs. the committee could hold an extraordinary meeting next week and we could, if necessary, proceed to the final vote next thursday in brussels, which would lead to a broad consensus in this house if clarifications have been made. but if the referral is rejected, we will not be able to vote in favour of this report today, which we very much regret. we therefore ask, in the interests of a large majority on this vital question, that it be referred back to committee. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (es) mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs gröner and all the members of the committee on behalf of commissioner reding, who have worked very hard on this whole document. i would like to say that the work is so positive that no amendments will be rejected and, in this connection, i would point out that the commission accepts amendments nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. it therefore accepts virtually all the amendments and, as regards amendments nos 7 and 8, it cannot accept the wording but accepts the spirit of the amendments. i can say that this is a remarkable piece of work, which we welcome, and that no amendments are clearly rejected.
the rapporteur. (de) mr president, i thank the commission for reacting so quickly to our rapid work. the bulk of the work, however, still lies ahead of us and we must now convince the council. the main problem is budgetary. parliament is asking for €980 million, the council is proposing €350 million and the seven-year programme is talking about €490 million. the great debate is about to begin and if the commission and parliament join forces, the council should also make a move.
- all the members present at the beginning of the sitting in this house have already attended the debate and many of them have already spoken. it is obviously necessary to avoid repeating the discussion we have already had, both on the agreement reached between the groups as to whether or not to mention the name of the company which was so much discussed this morning and on the specific question of whether or not the signatories of a particular compromise text were aware that part of it had been amended. i'd like to make two proposals. firstly, i believe that the secretary-general of parliament should make a rapid inquiry into the exact course of events. i think it is only right that we should be informed and given an explanation. some colleagues claim to have signed one document, others claim to have signed another. i think we all need to be informed of the real state of affairs. the secretary-general of parliament will inform us as soon as possible. secondly, as regards the matter under discussion, i would like to propose the following. if there are no objections, i can also put to the vote the part of a concerted text which some say is included in the compromise and which others say is not. i will only put this part to the vote if you all agree. indeed, since we have two versions, i cannot say that there is agreement. we can all agree, however, that despite these two conflicting interpretations, it is appropriate to vote the part in question by division. i repeat: i can only have this vote if everyone agrees. if any of you are questioning this working hypothesis, it's obvious i won't be able to do so. in order to avoid reigniting the debate, i will ask those who do not agree with the proposal i have just made to say so immediately, so that we can know whether, at this point, we can proceed to the vote or not. if there is any objection, i repeat, it will not be. is there any objection to this or do you all agree to vote for this part of the amendment? are there no objections? well, then when we get to that point, we'll proceed to a block vote.
- thank you, mrs auroi, but explanations of vote are for later.
- (fi) mr president, contrary to the majority of the members of this house, i believe that the union should finance its possible action in kosovo, east timor and turkey with funds not exceeding the maximum provided for in title 4 of the financial perspective. the same applies to the implementation of the fisheries agreement with morocco. as the council has noted, there is no precise indication in the estimate of emergency aid for countries other than kosovo. it is therefore premature to set the overall amount of funds for external action next year. in addition, resources have already been reallocated to the above-mentioned challenges. as regards point 11 of the virrankoski report, i think that parliament has already committed itself last summer to renewing its regulation so that travel allowances are paid on the basis of actual costs. i too have personally accepted the reimbursement system on this basis, but i demand that the council should align itself with the overall solution proposed by parliament.
in writing. - the european women's lobby represents over 3000 different women's rights organisations across the eu. he defends women's interests with competence and professionalism. the group provided valuable information and assistance, particularly on the impact of european programmes on women's lives. we have also been able to access information, testimonies and analyses on an individual basis when necessary. the documents produced by the lobby are of high quality, as are the forums, seminars and conferences it organises. i want to see this as a result of the one-day conference of women from all over the eu, which was held in cardiff at the same time as the summit convened under the british presidency. it is obviously inappropriate to allocate funds between different organisations which, by definition, would be unable to identify the key elements which make the service provided by the european women's lobby such a unique service. the purpose of the lobby is clear and unassailable: to promote women's issues, priorities and interests. the accusations against the lobby, which is supposed to serve only one cause, are simply unfounded when we know that it represents so many women through its 3000 member organisations.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr napolitano, chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs, on his excellent report. it is the inauguration of a new way of operating the community institutions based on the greatest possible transparency. it is also a pledge to the european citizens of our willingness to learn from the crises that shook the european commission at the beginning of the year. following the resignation of the european commission, the three institutions, the european parliament, the european commission and the council concluded an interinstitutional agreement which aimed to specify the detailed rules for the implementation of administrative investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the aim is to incorporate these new data into our rules of procedure. it goes without saying that we can only welcome the introduction of more transparency in the european parliament. the decision establishes an obligation to inform any ep official or employee who 'takes cognizance of facts suggesting the existence of possible cases of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the interests of the communities'. meps who become aware of similar facts must inform the president of the ep or, if they consider it useful, olaf directly. it is a firm commitment to no longer 'tolerate' practices that were known to be irregular but had become part of the customs. i would add, however, a nuance: this obligation must respect the criteria of confidentiality specified either in the legislative texts or in the ep's rules of procedure (in particular the facts known to the members of the parliamentary committees of inquiry). i am also very pleased that it has been decided to insert a protection clause for civil servants who comply with the duty to inform: they must not under any circumstances be treated unfairly or discriminatory. we remember the way the official was treated by whom the scandal happened! i sincerely hope that we have gone beyond declarations of intent and that this is a profound change in the way each of our institutions operates.
in writing. - the draft on which we are to take a decision in the report by our colleague graça-moura is not open to controversy and rightly enjoys the support of the whole of this parliament. the european union has a central role to play in the development of arts and culture in europe. in the concept of a europe of nations, which is the one i am advocating here, it is precisely in this type of action that european cooperation brings significant added value. but i would like to stress that we are not deceived: the fact that this parliament wants to replace the term 'cultural cooperation' with the term 'cultural policy' is indicative of the temptation to standardize a so-called european cultural policy which would replace those of the member states. culture must not be the experimental ground used by the ideologues of the creation of the 'european people'. there is no european culture, just as there is no european people. there is, and this is a tremendous wealth, the peoples participating in the european union, and national cultures. i hope that this programme will help to make all the citizens of the member states aware of this richness and diversity. the union for a europe of nations group will always support programmes which aim to promote exchanges and develop the cultural appetite of the citizens of our member states. as long as it is really about exchanging and discovering and not creating the homo europeus by memorizing jean monnet's speeches. this new articulation of european cultural cooperation is of particular importance on the eve of the seattle negotiations, which i fear will not fail to strengthen american cultural hegemony. i therefore warn the commission and this parliament against the temptation to use these programmes as a propaganda tool or a means of standardization. secondly, and finally, i think that the battle of numbers between parliament, the council and the commission on this issue is particularly fruitless. we all know that the european union must face choices, perhaps painful choices, but crucial choices, to ensure its enlargement. so, ladies and gentlemen, let us take our responsibilities and not accuse the council of being a cabinet, when it is simply fulfilling the responsibilities which the voters and taxpayers of our member states have entrusted to it.
in writing. - the europe of nations group supported the joint resolution on corporate restructuring in the face of globalisation, as it shows the beginning of a new spirit, distancing itself from free trade, and calling for international trade to be conceived "in the context of the more complex objective of sustainable development". i believe that while it would be very inappropriate to call into question international free trade, it is now necessary to force it to take account of a number of unstated costs to our societies. you have to continue to reap its benefits while counteracting its drawbacks. the unstated costs include social costs resulting from the relocation of enterprises. it is true that international asset reallocation can contribute to better use of assets and thus ultimately benefit everyone. but at the same time, wage competition is marginalizing the least qualified people in developed societies, which we cannot accept. the michelin company, which has just carried out controversial redundancies in france, is in precisely such a situation, since its main competitor produces tyres in eastern countries at wages five times lower. the french minister for social affairs, mrs aubry, has put forward the idea of making michelin pay an exceptional unemployment contribution. this proposal seems absurd, because in this case the company is the victim. i would suggest the opposite: that companies manufacturing in low-wage countries should be obliged to pay an exceptional unemployment contribution when importing into france or europe. this contribution would be one element - but probably not the only one - of a system of rebalancing social costs which could better regulate international trade between heterogeneous areas, without, however, depriving us of the advantages of free trade. we believe that this proposal should be put on the table at the next round of the millennium trade negotiations which are to be held in seattle. i would also like to take this opportunity to recall the main objectives of the europe of nations group at the outset of these negotiations. we want to emphasize the importance of the problems not resolved by the uruguay round, and the harmful effects of which we are now beginning to see, in the areas of social costs, which i mentioned earlier, but also in those of the environment, public health, food, etc. it must be remembered, however, that we alone, or almost all of us, refused to approve the uruguay round, both in the french national assembly and in the european parliament, for precisely this reason: we considered it very dangerous to accept substantial reductions in customs tariffs without first resolving the essential collateral problems. so now we have to try to make up for lost time by putting these social, environmental, health cost issues on the seattle agenda. (2) the we want an objective and comprehensive assessment of the uruguay round, based on transparent consultation of governments and specialised non-governmental organisations. we refuse to negotiate in the present darkness. the opening of negotiations is inappropriate in such circumstances and a moratorium should be decided pending the establishment of the balance sheets. 3) the we are even more opposed to the inclusion in the seattle agenda of certain subjects proposed today by the european union, the consequences of which we have absolutely no control over. i would mention in particular the question of international investment, which would lead to a repetition of the attempt at the dismal multilateral agreement on investment (mai). i would also mention the definition of a global competition policy which, as it is presented today, would lead even more surely to a challenge to public services than the current european policy. (4) the finally, we demand that future negotiations should at the outset recognize a fundamental principle: that each people has the right to choose its own laws and that international trade must respect them. the logical consequence is that each people has the right to express choices and preferences. preferential zones, whether expressed on a regional basis (european community) or on a functional basis (lome convention), must be recognized as legitimate when they are based on democratic decisions of the peoples concerned.
in writing. - ridiculousness does not kill. fortunately for the european parliament, which should have clearly denounced the attitude of michelin's management, which has just announced a massive train of staff reductions and layoffs, even though the results and profits of this company have increased considerably! the simultaneous announcements have of course laid bare, in a glaring way, the scandalous and unjust side of the current economic logic and of this financial capitalism which has become dominant in europe and the world. of course, in the first place, the european parliament must, in this particular case, firmly condemn the management of michelin, ask it to reverse these job cuts and assure the employees of the group of its solidarity. but our assembly must also learn the lessons that are needed to improve community legislation to ensure that workers are protected against such practices. it is clear that the directive on the procedure for collective redundancies must be revised and that more protective measures for workers and employment must be introduced. in particular, employees should be able to challenge the very basis of such dismissals and their economic imperative before they are carried out and well in advance of the procedure. the creation of genuine group committees, european committees with real powers, is also becoming increasingly necessary. here too, the european parliament should review the directive on this point. our resolution is singularly lacking in determination and it is to be feared that, without a large-scale mobilization, social europe will remain dead in the water for a long time.
in writing. - (el) the snowballing phenomenon of mass layoffs of workers by large multinationals provides a scathing rebuttal to the mainstream speeches on the fight against unemployment and the recovery of employment in the eu. the goodyear, renault and michelin groups today, in adapting to the development models promoted by the creation of the single market and incorporated in the maastricht and amsterdam treaties as well as in emu, have taken advantage of the unbridled conditions of liberalism thus spared, by gradually eliminating any notion of social responsibility and protection of workers and by pushing ever increasing numbers of workers into unemployment and exclusion. these large-scale restructuring and merger operations have encouraged a boom in speculation at the expense of productive investment and have led to a rise in mass layoffs. the jungle of unbridled competition and the full license granted to big capital no longer even seeks to make excuses, hence the simultaneous announcement by michelin's management of a 17% increase in its profits and 7 500 job cuts, in addition to the 15 000 in previous years. indifference and cynicism are not only endorsed by the eu and its institutions but are even financially supported by direct or indirect aid to strengthen international competitiveness. the human factor is being rolled under the roller of the most savage capitalism. the worker is invited, with the weapon of unemployment pointed at his head, to show solidarity with the increase in profits by accepting agreements with humiliating clauses, conditions and remuneration, as in the case of michelin, before finally being led to lose his job. the emu is proving to be a royal road for monopolies whose sole purpose is to increase their profits and strengthen their power. the workers have nothing to gain by taking this route. on the contrary, they are faced with unemployment, deterioration of their living conditions, marginalization and poverty. in an era when all the provisions for the protection of workers are ignored and suppressed, when every right is outrageously flouted, the unification and united front of workers against the choices of the monopolies and the emu, their struggle for full employment, for the improvement of their living conditions and for genuine social development and welfare, is the only way open to them. the european parliament, by its resolution today, is in practice making itself an accomplice in the implementation of the most anti-social policy against workers. this is an unacceptable resolution and we shall vote against it on behalf of the workers.
mr president, if we want the transport of dangerous goods and materials to be carried out primarily by rail, it seems urgent to impose requirements as to its conditions. it is increasingly dangerous for people and workers in this sector for a number of reasons. firstly, the privatisation of railway networks, especially all maintenance, is creating serious safety problems, with an increase in accidents, sometimes leading to real human disasters, as we have just seen in britain. the need to make profits and competitiveness are set up in european standards. they impose drastic cost reductions, always at the expense of employees who play a vital role in maintenance and safety. it's done without any control. neither the agents, nor the users, nor the citizens are called upon to give their opinion. the diversity of national legislation also complicates safety issues and increases risks. it is important to us that the principle of maximum precautions and safety is a priority. this is particularly true of the transport of radioactive waste, which is treated with intolerable lightness in france, particularly in the case of the hague, without regard to the health of railway workers and the population. it is therefore urgent to stop privatisation, to increase staff and to train them seriously, to impose mandatory budgets for maintenance and its control, to set up user/professional committees to monitor traffic, to impose a right of veto on transfers when the risks are real. this would make it possible to act preventively, rather than waiting for the disasters that are likely to multiply if no public and citizen action is taken.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fisheries agreement with the kingdom of morocco is by far the most important of those concluded by the european union, because of the number of community vessels it affects, the fishing opportunities it opens up, the jobs that depend directly on it - more than 8000 fishermen, more than 20 000 workers. a number of regions belonging to several member states of the european union are closely, if not totally, dependent on this fisheries agreement. we all know that if this agreement is not renewed, the entire fisheries sector in the european union will suffer the indirect consequences. the fact is that fishing vessels that cannot fish in moroccan waters would inevitably shift their activities to other areas, thus risking dangerous chain reactions and imbalances that would be harmful to all. the fact that the moroccans are tough negotiators should not come as a surprise to the commission, which should have drawn the consequences. we have already had considerable difficulties in negotiating the agreement now in force. it is also perfectly legitimate for morocco to seek to manage its fisheries resources in the best long-term interests. we would be unwelcome to blame him. but this demand must be fully integrated and fully respected in a new agreement. however, has the commission sufficiently made our moroccan friends aware of the terrible consequences for the eu member states of the non-renewal of the fisheries agreement with them? we feel that the commission has not shown the necessary diligence in this respect. the fisheries agreement expires on 30 november. the commission took a long time to ask for the negotiating mandate. the new negotiation is not under way, and we are one month away from the deadline. what arrangements are in place, commissioner, in the event of a standstill, to ensure that the ships directly affected, the fishermen affected, the regions concerned and especially the objective 1 and 2 areas dependent on fishing, as stated in our joint resolution, do not suffer the full and catastrophic consequences of non-renewal of the agreement? you were quite vague on this essential point earlier, commissioner. there has therefore been undeniable passivity, inadequacy and laxity on the part of the commission, whereas this is an essential task entrusted to it by the treaties. if the commission does not now devote all the energy necessary to safeguarding the fisheries agreements, which are the fundamental pillar of the common fisheries policy, then the pressure from the fisheries sector will be strong and justified in calling for the common fisheries policy to be called into question and for a bilateral framework to be established, allowing the direct conclusion of fisheries agreements between member states and third countries, which would better respect and defend the vital interests of our peoples. this means, commissioner, that the issue of negotiations with morocco is particularly important for the future of the common fisheries policy. we therefore hope that you will give it the priority attention it requires in brussels, strasbourg or seattle.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are dealing with the renegotiation of the ec-morocco fisheries agreement, which expires on 30 november. this is one of 29 fisheries agreements concluded by the european union, 15 of which are with african or indian ocean countries. these negotiations will take place in a specific context, marked by two new elements: the death of his majesty hassan ii, the last great figure of 20th century history, and the acceptance a few days ago of the principle of turkey's application for membership. when considering the integration of a country that has nothing in common with europe, it is difficult to make any serious reservations about morocco, which shares with spain or france at least the language, a history and economic relations. on the technical side, morocco wants a comprehensive negotiation which would cover fisheries, the protection of fishery resources, local industry and even more generally agricultural relations with morocco. the position of our countries is essentially a budgetary one, with a cost of 125 million euros a year. the main beneficiary country is spain, which obtains 20% of its fishery production under the agreement with morocco, mauritania or senegal; portugal and france, on the other hand, benefit to a lesser extent and italy would like to benefit as well. morocco also wants to keep its fisheries resources in its economic zone, and other countries, such as britain, have expressed budgetary concerns. it is true that the community budget for fisheries agreements is not insignificant: eur 300 million, or 5% of the budget for european external action. so it is not negligible, even if we do not lose money. if i believe the ifremer report, for every euro invested, the european turnover generated would be almost three euros, and the value added would be 900 million. the spanish are the main beneficiaries, with the canary islands where 91% of the fleet depends on this agreement, with andalusia with 75% of the fleet, and the absence of an agreement would have a cost. morocco is not the loser either, since nearly a thousand jobs are affected by this agreement, with an annual added value of 36 million. but the moroccans rightly point to the risk of over-fishing. world catches have risen from less than 20 million tonnes some 40 years ago to nearly 100 million tonnes today. even if europe is not to blame, since we are fishing less and less in the mediterranean, where our share is now only 40% of the catch. it is therefore important to protect these fisheries resources, which i know well, from the small ports of oualidia or media to mauritania and the sahara, which, i remind mrs mckenna, is not autonomous but has belonged to morocco for centuries. where can we find the compromise with moroccan minister el khyari? on the european side, we could make concessions on the development of local moroccan processing industry, on aid for scientific studies and on landings in moroccan ports. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr. fischler, you mentioned that you're going to be in seattle, so we need to look at this on a much higher level. this is not a simple fisheries negotiation, but a much broader negotiation, a euro-mediterranean negotiation, or even a wto negotiation. while in seattle we are going to concede to the united states on compensatory aid for agriculture, it is difficult to refuse morocco equivalent concessions in the agricultural field. it is also clear that morocco-europe relations must be assessed at the summit. we must take advantage of the forthcoming visit of his majesty mohammed vi to parliament to renegotiate the whole thing and ensure that morocco is not destabilised by the foolishness mrs mckenna has just spoken about saharawi sovereignty, which we know would have consequences if algeria were to join the atlantic front. europe needs morocco and vice versa. the agreement must therefore be found in respect for common identities, sovereignty and in respect for what we are to each other while recognizing that history has made morocco, if not a cultural exception, at least a mediterranean exception for europe in general and for france in particular.
mr president, the question of renewing the fisheries agreement between morocco and the european union is a perfect illustration of the general policy of europe which is reflected in the budget discussed this morning and whose logic we have denounced. we are opposed to cuts in aid to developing countries. europe is directly concerned by the tragic situation in africa. first, as a former colonial power, but also for having continued to plunder the wealth of these countries after they gained independence. we must completely reconsider the very nature of this aid, which has so far only allowed the maintenance of neo-colonial relations, favourable to the incumbent government and the multinationals, of which elf gives a particularly eloquent example. the people are still in a state of perpetual misery. far from opposing the interests of the fishermen of european and african countries, we must try to bring their demands and their struggle against the powerful capitalist interests together. in the case of morocco and the fisheries agreement in question, it is also impossible to ignore once again the rights of the sahrawi people, starting with their right to self-determination, their right to establish an independent state, if they so choose, and to protect the natural resources of their territory, whether phosphate deposits or, in particular, the resources of their seafront, which are threatened by this agreement. finally, i would like to draw attention to the particularly tense social situation in the fisheries sector in morocco. a strike movement has been affecting most of the country's ports for several weeks and is facing a violent repression by the security forces. again, as in september 1998, the fight is about freedom of basic social rights, paid leave, social security, retirement at 55 and a guaranteed minimum income. but the moroccan fishermen are also demanding justice for the murder by the basri minions of the founder of their trade union, mr mounacir, and i would like to express our solidarity with them.
- you have received the minutes of yesterday's meeting. are there any comments on the minutes ?
- i'll answer that. your statement, of course, will be entered in the minutes of today's sitting. ladies and gentlemen, there is a golden rule in this parliament. we never go back on a vote. you understand that to repeat a vote that has already been taken would set a terrible precedent. but what you said will naturally be recorded in today's minutes. (applause) i would like to thank
- i am recording your statement, and excuse me, but we also have a custom in this parliament: when we have the floor, we stand up. you didn't know that, and now you're informed.
- i remember it well. we shall amend the minutes accordingly.
- madam president, i wanted to make a point following my reminder of the rules of procedure of last monday concerning the circulation of a directory of the american chamber of commerce in brussels which contained seriously erroneous information concerning myself, the members of my group and many other members of this house. i have just received a letter from the secretary-general of the european parliament, who tells me that this is a mistake and that he would never have imagined that there would be such biased information in this directory. i'll take that. we have agreed that he will write to the chamber of commerce to ask for the withdrawal of the yearbook and, for the copies already in circulation, a corrigendum. i thank him for his reaction, which i consider appropriate, but of course the matter is not over because we will now have to actually have this yearbook withdrawn from circulation.
- thank you, mr. berthu. the information was indeed very biased and the secretary-general tells me that the letter has already been sent to the addressees. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
- the next item is the commission statement on british beef.
mr president, i would like to remind you that by deciding not to lift the embargo on british beef, france is merely applying the treaty which allows each state to ban or restrict its imports for reasons of protection of the health and life of people and animals. i am personally pleased that the precautionary principle takes precedence over free trade. the reasons given by france for its decision are not false pretexts masking some kind of protectionism. they are based on sound scientific arguments from afssa, a completely independent association of scientists. his studies show that the bse epidemic is far from under control. so of course, i'm not going to get into a numbers war, there are still a number of them that are here to demonstrate that. the british committee of experts does not dispute these figures, which were echoed by the director of public health in scotland, who said: 'i remain sensitive to the fact that there is a risk to human health in this country'. too many bse cases are occurring in cattle born after the ban on animal meal. how can this be explained without acknowledging that the eradication programme in britain is not yet fully developed? furthermore, the traceability of animals is not guaranteed. there is no guarantee that only animals born after 1 august 1996 and between 6 and 30 months of age are to be placed on the market. france is not the only country in this position. without having formally decided to lift the embargo, germany is dragging its feet in applying it: did not the minister for health just announce that the embargo would not be lifted until christmas? it seems to me that the european commission's decision to lift the embargo is more political than scientific, as the divergent analyses and views within the european scientific committee show. past experience with the european commission's dysfunctions and shortcomings in this bse case does not lead me to have blind faith in its decisions, to say the least. so obviously, in view of the campaign that has developed in the british press, i do not think we should fan the flames as some colleagues do. i think we must be right, and help to restore calm, with the aim of ensuring the best possible protection of the health of our fellow citizens by limiting the risks to the greatest possible extent. the question of food security has become a matter for our societies, and i would even say a requirement of our fellow citizens. i therefore think that more scientific examination should be carried out within the scientific committee, taking into account all the most recent data, pending the screening tests which could be applied to live animals and by strengthening controls at all levels. only then will france be able to lift the embargo safely.
- mr president, no one disputes that britain remains the lingering home of a disease affecting half its cattle herds. the number of mad cow cases will exceed 3 000 in 1999, despite the measures taken since the embargo was imposed in 1996. the persistence of the epidemic raises a formidable question: are there other ways of transmitting the disease than those we have identified so far: feeding with animal meal and maternal transmission? the greatest caution should therefore be exercised in the face of these fundamental questions, as in the case of gmos, and this is all the more so as we will very soon have a powerful scientific instrument, the esb tests, which will enable us to judge the health status of all herds. their scientific validation is imminent. so why such a rush to force the lifting of the embargo now, when britain has no beef to export and these tests are about to be validated? the french government's attitude is not consistent. if, instead of abstaining in the council, it had voted, as germany did, in favour of maintaining the embargo in the absence of the essential elements of traceability, the embargo would be in force, consumers would be safe, the tests would be about to tell us something, the outbreak of chauvinism in the channel would have been avoided for the honour of the great british people and our conservative friends would not have had to renounce the principle of sovereignty to which they are rightfully attached. however, questions as crucial to human health as those of bse could not, of course, be dealt with by majority decisions. the whole question of the health and food protection of our people is at stake. the crisis is rooted in the obstacles to the implementation of the precautionary principle by both the european union and the wto, and it is by returning to genuine subsidiarity, not by subverting it as has been done in the name of free trade and federalist ideologies, that the precautionary principle can be properly implemented. in the field of food security, the european union is what it is, and we know that we can only expect a minimum level of protection and a value in the box rather than an added value. subsidiarity therefore imposes the urgent need to recognise that states have the right to derogate from any harmonisation measure if they intend to adopt more protective rules in the field of public health, as well as in the field of the environment. this is a key point which must be urgently included on the agenda of the next igc and, as a corollary, it is a point which must be renegotiated within the framework of the wto, otherwise any application of subsidiarity at european level could be circumvented. in marrakesh the commission made us give up our freedom of health protection. the burden of sufficient scientific evidence on the actor concerned to protect the health of his population in practice hinders or prevents the application of the precautionary principle. these provisions must be revised if the present crisis is to steer us firmly in these two interlinked directions. we cannot, as is currently the case, ask seattle to take the precautionary principle into account at wto level and refuse member states to do so. the crisis, mr president, commissioner, will not then have been unnecessary.
mr president, i understand our british friends, as i understand our portuguese friends, who are also concerned, as i understood our belgian friends in the dioxin case and as i understand even better the french in the sludge case. but it's not the same thing. atypical creutzfeldt-jakob disease is a terrifying disease that affects boys and young women in their early 20's. they start to lose their mobility, their ability to walk, they get stuck in a wheelchair, they lose muscle mass, they have increasing breathing difficulties, they see themselves dying, and they die within six months. it is true that our british friends have taken steps to ensure traceability, introduced a passport for cattle, flour has been abolished since 1990, slaughter conditions have been changed, ganglia, spinal cord and lymphoid tissue have been removed, and only cattle under 30 months old are exported. they have worked to reduce the consequences of the terrible mistake made by the demulder brothers in yorkshire, which caused the disease. however, the conditions of slaughtering with a special gun cause brain particles or lymphoid to pass into the jugular vein, which adds muscle mass. however, there are still 3,000 cases a year in britain, and the creutzfeldt-jakob disease is at 40, which is the normal ceiling. the fact remains that there are 650 bse cases per million cattle. but i'm told the cattle exported are impeccable. yes, but the disease incubates for 15 or 20 years. there are no clinical signs of export, but the cattle are in the process of incubation and maybe even the british who ate the cattle! this is all the more true since the first applications of the screening test show that clinically perfect cattle are already affected. you understand there's still some doubt. we thought the disease was transmitted through flour. the flours have been removed but the disease is still there. it was thought to be transmitted from the mother to the calf, and there's probably a third way of transmission, perhaps like sheep trembling, through the soil, through the forage. there are fields that are cursed where a herd is killed, and when, two years later, a herd is brought back, the herd is infected. the same may be true of creutzfeldt-jakob disease. it is therefore understandable that the french food safety agency has issued a negative opinion. we are told that if the agency were european, things would be different. oh , yeah ? there is a french biology and a brussels biology. we are resurrecting lyssenko, who in the soviet union explained to us that there is a biology of the proletarians and a biology of the capitalists. well , no , you won 't . the laws of biology apply to everyone. professor dormond and jeanne bruger picou are among the greatest scientists, like professor dirringer in germany, or like one of the scottish bosses who, incidentally, also has doubts. i'm told the embargo is lifted, france is resisting, after germany. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in early 1996, when five german länder refused british meat, the european commission brought a liability action against those länder for wanting to protect their populations. then a few weeks later the european commission imposed the embargo and acknowledged that the german länder had been right. but the european commission had, of course, given in to political biology. we are all agreed, ladies and gentlemen, that we must oppose american hormone-fed meat and the use of somatotropin, a lactation hormone, for which there is no scientific evidence that it is harmful. somatotropin will cause mammitis in the cows, but if a colleague here injects somatotropin, his chest may swell a little, but he won't die. how can we refuse american hormones and somatotropin when the risk is not clearly established and accept british meat when the risk is serious? how can we come to the wto and plead for europe, the precautionary principle, and refuse to apply the precautionary principle in the case of the british cow? my dear colleagues, there is a hierarchy of standards, and in the hierarchy of standards, there is first the health standard, then the international trade standard. after all, our british friends are punished where they have sinned. it was a british man, ricardo, who had explained to us the laws of international trade and comparative advantage. he had explained to the portuguese that they should not make linen but wine, because the english made better linen. well, my dear british friends, you must find that others do cattle better than you and perhaps you should give up cattle making. in any case, you are being punished for your sins, for excessive free trade, for excessive ultraliberalism, because that was the fundamental cause of this pandemic and of this zoonosis. we cannot risk killing 20-year-old boys to keep international trade flourishing.
- mr. president, after mr. martinez, it's gonna be tough to be better than him. the violence of the reaction of europeans from the channel to the measures taken by the french authorities, echoing the agency already quoted this morning, seems disproportionate. it must be admitted that a three-and-a-half-year embargo is extremely burdensome, and what may be mistaken for ill-will may become the straw that breaks the camel's back. i know that the farmers are suffering a lot and i also received them in my office on tuesday. at present, the british are trying to counterbalance the health concerns of the french with the health concerns of meat from animals fed from prohibited materials. i would like to make a few points. first, as regards the war on cattle, cattle have not been consuming meat meal since 1990, so they are not involved in this issue. secondly, it is undeniable that all the practices that have been denounced must be prosecuted and severely condemned. third point: france is the only european country, along with belgium, to have been subject to a commission inspection mission. does this mean that the british are not committing any offences, when we know that exporters did not hesitate to export contaminated flour, which was banned in their country in 1988? they exported them to the community until 1990, when the european embargo on these products was imposed, and even longer to other countries. i would add that in france too measures are taken, since when there is a sick animal in the herd, the whole herd is eliminated. we've had 22 cases compared to several thousand in the uk. it must be said that french consumers are no longer feeling very reassured. since northern ireland is open and transit through france is allowed, trade can nevertheless continue with all european countries except france. for my information, i will ask the european commission for some technical details. which european countries are currently buying british meat and in what quantities? i think that'll clear up the whole thing. it is clear that french consumers have no general a priori protection against british meat: one has only to look at the beef flows to see for themselves. producers and consumers should know that the current debate is first and foremost a debate of scientific experts, who must be allowed to express themselves freely. producers and consumers should also be aware that scientific data evolve as discoveries are made. i hope, for the sake of all, that the screening tests will be implemented quickly. after the scientific debate, everyone, at his level, will have to take responsibility. it is essential that european consumers have healthy meat on their plates. i would like to say in conclusion that i am glad to see that in this crisis the governments and the respective professional organisations have finally wanted to bring back the necessary calm to move forward with a debate which obviously will not be closed today, and i simply ask the british minister to take the same steps as the french minister.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring the safety and quality of our food is an imperative for all of us. to this end, the french government has set up the french food safety agency to improve the scientific assessment of food risks. it was considered essential that france should have an institution which would enable it to take decisions on a rigorous scientific basis and which would be completely independent of the authorities. what would have been said if the government had not followed the advice of scientists when their conclusions were negative! it is clear that we must not give in to psychosis. it is equally out of the question to stigmatize british farmers who have suffered a great deal and made unimaginable efforts. we cannot ignore their desperation. on the other hand, no one will come out of a trade war unscathed, and certainly not the european union. let us not give anyone the stick to fight us and let us not fall into the hands of the anti-europeanists who are exploiting the situation in a shameful way. it is those who do not want europe who are using every excuse without any shame to stir up the population against europe. it is so easy to use emotion, but let us not forget that if we can have a free market and if we can actually trade our products, it is thanks to europe. if the european union did not exist, we would be faced with a problem today, and our borders would be closed, period! we wouldn't be here today debating! the european scientific steering committee must decide on the relevance of the french arguments because on monday the ad hoc group, which brings together european specialists in prion diseases, was unable to reach a unanimous conclusion and transmitted the results of its work to the european scientific committee. the committee must therefore decide and we are all awaiting the opinion of the commission, which will have to take up its responsibilities. it will take them, without sacrificing a high level of protection, we are convinced. it is the opinions of scientists that have triggered the crisis and it is through scientists that we will get out of this crisis. we now have the ability to use a test to screen for animals in incubation. we will have to see if this can be done quickly, because if there is no zero risk in health matters, it is our duty to do everything possible to ensure that our fellow citizens are assured that everything has been done to avoid mistakes, including food mistakes. the commission can propose additional measures which would give us complete reassurance. i would add that it is quite obvious that everyone has to sweep in front of his own door, and france as well as the others. all those who have led our countries into mad agriculture must be strongly condemned. we can see today that the pursuit of profit leads to abominations and to horrible paradoxes. while manufacturers have not hesitated to make ruminants carnivorous, world hunger is still present. scientists are giving their opinions, politicians are making choices, and those choices are not always easy to make. the problem is how far one can reasonably take a risk when there is a risk. that is why the precautionary principle is developed. my dear colleagues, we must all come out of this crisis together and we must come out on top, because we cannot compromise our credibility. all consumers want to know what's on their plate and they want to be sure they can trust us.
mr president, i would like to begin by saying that i am in favour of the precautionary principle in a field where the health of consumers is directly threatened, but the discussion taking place here between the supporters of the embargo and their opponents is one of total hypocrisy. it is well known that the good and bad arguments for consumer protection are primarily used as ammunition in a trade war and as arguments in obscure domestic political maneuvers. it is therefore totally hypocritical to invoke the farmers and their interests and to oppose them, explicitly or implicitly, to the interests of consumers, without denouncing the responsibility of the large capitalist groups producing and supplying fodder for livestock. we hear in this house constant praise for the competitiveness of companies, their right and even their duty to maximise profits. well, here is the result of this race for profit in a field that touches on health and food safety! together with the carcinogenic consequences of asbestos use, spongiform encephalopathies are one of the time bombs left by the capitalist management of industry. whether the european parliament takes a position in favour of the embargo or of its lifting, the substantive issues will not have been addressed. there will still be firms which will save on the investment required to test new products for hazards. there will still be companies which, like asbestos companies, will continue to conceal the dangers to workers and consumers; companies that will continue to take the risk of poisoning and even killing to make a little more profit.
mr president, after the excellent speeches by mr souchet and mr martinez on the continuation of the french embargo on british beef, i would like to add only three points from the legal, moral and political points of view. from a legal point of view, it is clear that the french law of 1 july 1998 establishing the food safety agency implies that france has the sovereign power to safeguard the health of its inhabitants. it is nevertheless clear that article 95 of our treaty, as strengthened since amsterdam, says the opposite in the absurd desire for uniformity. this kind of contradiction between national and community law also exists in the field of hunting and in many other areas, as if governments signed abstract european commitments whose aberrant practical consequences they later discovered. in this kind of contradiction, the ultimate reference can only be the free choice of each people, otherwise the european system will explode. there is also the moral aspect to consider. there is, of course, a higher moral principle that requires a government to safeguard the vital interests of its people. but we must not forget that the mad cow disease disaster that struck our british partners could have struck any of our countries, because we all practice the same unnatural productivist agricultural policy, which is increasingly subject to global free trade. all member states share a collective responsibility for this policy. i would not say that of all areas of our european relations; i would not say the same about our relations with third countries either, but within the union there is undoubtedly a common agricultural policy and everyone has a responsibility towards this policy. we would therefore find it right that the european budget should step up its efforts to help british farmers. and, whatever you say, there's money! just yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the federalists in this parliament found a way to set aside 60 million euros - i say 60 million euros - for a unified statute for the european parliament which is absolutely useless and which has not yet been decided. finally, the political level, political thinking: how to get out of this? well, apart from the compensation i just mentioned, i think there's no other solution to this case than screening tests which should be available soon. until then, the precautionary principle must prevail, otherwise we will only further undermine the citizens' confidence. more broadly, we should agree on the need for quality agriculture, respecting the environment and the health of consumers and ensuring our food independence. but this agriculture needs a community preference which we must now go to seattle to defend. i think it would be a great benefit to today's debate if we agreed with the british to recognise this as a priority objective.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that we are not very proud of the situation in which the agricultural profession finds itself today. but rest assured, i will not only speak as a frenchwoman, but first and foremost as an ecologist and a european. in this sense i am defending the environment, and in particular the precautionary principle, for britain as well as for france, spain and the countries of the south. this precautionary principle is, for us, a political line to be followed precisely to ensure food security. in france, it was under pressure from the population, consumers and of course environmentalists and the greens that this agency for health and food safety was set up. she gave the advice and the government of course followed it. we cannot therefore reject this french position, especially since we are calling for the establishment of such an agency at european level. i hope, of course, that the members of the european parliament and the commission will follow the advice of this future agency when it is established. but we must think of the farmers. they had a seismic event, a mad cow disease, and they were barely recovering. today it is absolutely unacceptable to allow the situation to escalate by allowing citizens of the same profession to oppose each other within the european union. the british farmers are understandably distressed. it must be remembered, however, that the agriculture which is responsible for the situation in which all european farmers, or a good part of them, find themselves, is a productivist agricultural policy. it is therefore our responsibility today to finally make a radical change in the agricultural policy of the european union. we have also assumed our responsibilities towards the wto, and the european union is in the same situation vis-à-vis the united states as france is today vis-à-vis the european union. we cannot, on the one hand, reject the so-called legality of the wto with regard to american hormone-treated meat and, on the other hand, invoke the european state's reason for rejecting the precautionary principle proposed by france. the greens are asking the commission for concrete and urgent proposals even though the experts have not yet given their opinion today. commissioner, you know the situation, it is not new, it is not new. there is a real need for proposals to reassure consumers and farmers in europe.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 29 october 1999.
i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, how much i have been shocked, together with you, by the tragedy that has occurred in the state of orissa in eastern india, with this terrible cyclone which, as you know, has caused the deaths of tens of thousands of people. over 200,000 homes were destroyed and over 1.5 million people were left homeless. i simply wanted to express on your behalf and on behalf of the european parliament my sincere condolences to the families of the victims. if you agree, i will write to the prime minister of india to convey our condolences. we will also ask the commission to implement an aid plan to address the most immediate and urgent needs. i wanted to make this announcement.
the minutes of the sitting of friday 29 october were distributed. are there any observations ?
mr rübig, that was not quite on the agenda.
thank you, colleague. i take note of your statement and i can personally say that i fully share the sentiment you have just expressed and that i would indeed like the turnout for friday's vote to be much higher than it is. we know that this is an old problem, but of course we all wish the same.
- madam president, this is not really a point of order, but it is true that events happen one after the other and i was called upon to take a decision on friday, when there was no one left to answer my questions. on friday morning, i was invited by the ambassador of armenia to the european union, mr tchitetchian, to attend the funeral of those who were murdered in the armenian parliament last week. after seeing if i could go, i decided to go to the funeral and tried to inform the chairman and the secretariat. unfortunately, it was friday, between 4 and 5 p.m., and there was no one to answer. so i faxed you a letter to tell you that i would be coming in a private capacity, and yet to represent the european parliament in some way at the funeral. so i attended the funerals and official ceremonies in memory of those who were murdered in armenia. i wanted to point that out to you, madam president.
thank you, mrs. isler begin. i'm not sure i can do this. you did a great job.
mr. alavanos, i will answer you right away. what is true is that we are having a debate on information policy in the bureau tonight. i can also tell you that the president has no intention of deleting this bulletin. i hope that the bureau will follow me. (the minutes were approved) documents received: see minutes.
the agenda calls for the fixing of the agenda. i have two requests to alter the agenda. first, the commission's communication, which is the first item on the agenda, and which was to deal with the fight against discrimination. the commission informs us that, contrary to what it had foreseen, it is not in a position to adopt the proposals in this area and therefore does not wish to make a communication on this subject. the commission is, however, quite prepared to give us a statement on the situation with regard to british beef following the meeting of the scientific committee. i therefore ask you whether you agree that the communication on discrimination, which was included, should be replaced by a communication on british beef. (parliament agreed to the request) so we shall have a communication on british beef. now there's a second problem. some colleagues have asked that this communication be followed by a debate and not by the question and answer procedure which was originally envisaged for the first communication.
mr baron crespo, do you still maintain your request that we have a debate and not a question-and-answer procedure as usual? i put this proposal to the vote, with a request for a roll-call vote. (parliament rejected the proposal)
commission. - to answer the first part of your question, mrs jackson, i think it is quite the opposite. rather than questioning mr prodi's plans for a european food safety agency, she stresses the need for such an agency at community level. we are currently working on this very point in my department. we want to identify and determine its level of competence and it would also be very important to clearly identify and delimit the jurisdiction that the food safety agency will have at community level and how it will interact with agencies at member state level. it will be important to identify where the functions of each begin, end and coincide. once this is clear, i think the problem we have been facing for the last four or five weeks should no longer arise. i should also point out that we have undertaken an exercise which will be undertaken on friday and the following days and which is, as i said, a clarification exercise. this is not a negotiation. a negotiation involves both parties sitting down at the negotiating table, each with their own views, and something eventually comes out that reflects both of their views. we have here undertaken an exercise in clarifying the five points i have mentioned. the french authorities have good reason to ask for more information on these very important subjects. most of them are requests for information on how the date-based export regime actually works from a practical and technical point of view. my department is really happy and eager to provide this information to the french authorities. british officials will also be involved. some practical considerations about how the programme actually works need to be explained. i am therefore convinced that it is more accurate to speak of clarifications here. if my statement - that the obvious implication of this exercise is that the embargo will be lifted - does not come true, we will initiate an infringement procedure, as i said from the very beginning when we were first confronted with this issue on friday 1 october. that's always my opinion. since then i have repeatedly stated that we will take legal action as a last resort. i think it's best to reach a result through discussion between the parties to ensure that everyone understands what's at stake. this is the exercise we are engaged in at the moment. if that does not work, then i think it is appropriate to take legal action.
commission. - these days, almost nothing surprises me. i think, however, that the clarifications requested by the french authorities are not unreasonable. they concern the date-based export regime. they cover five subjects: traceability, additional testing, questions about derived products, additional information on controls - inspections and controls by the food and veterinary office at the only facility in truro, devon, which slaughters and exports this product - and finally, labelling. as regards labelling, there is currently a draft european legislation, which is due to come into force on 1 january 2000. these provisions were delayed by one year because the member states had not completed the preparatory work necessary for the application of the legislation. in the meantime, the uk authorities have introduced their own system of labelling of beef quality assurance programmes and have indicated that the voluntary labelling system would work for exports to france or other countries. this, i must stress, is done voluntarily. this is not the subject of legislation at european level. i have neither the competence nor the pretensions to do so. as a transitional measure, pending the final application of the european labelling system, this proposal was put forward by the united kingdom voluntarily and it will work in this way. i agree with you, mrs roth-behrendt, that the french authorities have not produced any new scientific evidence. the scientific steering committee confirmed it last week. this was more recent information but not new evidence to change the opinion of the scientific steering committee. as for the agency, i can only refer you to my reply to mrs jackson that i think the creation of a centralised food safety authority at commission level will have a long way to go before this kind of difficulty is eliminated. there may be some initial difficulties, but it will be a challenge for all of us who have committed ourselves to creating legislation for this agency to ensure that the competences of each of the different institutions - whether at community or member state level - interact properly and that each knows exactly where its competences begin and end. this will increase, not reduce, our certainty in this area.
- madam president, commissioner, you and the scientific committee have taken responsibility for the consumer and i believe that i was one of those who experienced this crisis and have always followed the scientific committees. but i think that particular vigilance is needed in the identification of cattle in the various countries of the community. of course, you have answered some of the questions on labelling and traceability and - i beg you - especially on the question of total transparency throughout the community in the whole beef sector, whose past is known. what are the various control systems you have at community level and what is your position on the various tests, in particular the bse test which has been accepted by the commission?
commission - (en) there are currently four esb tests, three of the most reliable and the fourth fairly reliable. these are postmortem tests. additional work is underway to ensure that these tests, or a development of these tests, can be used in a preclinical setting. we have not yet reached that stage, but we hope to do so. work is currently under way in this regard. tests are underway as we speak. the control systems in place - inspections and controls - are carried out by the food and veterinary office for the date-based export regime. this agency has run two tests in the last six months. the last one is recent, dated the first week of october. although we do not yet have a written report on this particular inspection, i do have an oral report stating that the results are satisfactory.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am convinced, as much as i can be, that france is not trying to buy time. the french authorities have requested these clarifications. i think their request is not unreasonable. i believe that the officials in my department and those in the united kingdom will be able to answer it and provide the necessary information. it can be done in a few days. as for the time limit, i would point out that the report of the scientific steering committee was delivered on friday evening. so this is the first working day since then and i do not think there has been much sign of delay during that period. as for mr brown, he and i have discussed the matter several times over the past few weeks. in my contacts with him, he seemed to me determined to solve this difficulty in the quickest and most satisfactory way possible. you raised the issue by saying he was deflating, but that's far from the case. he has devoted himself to this issue as assiduously as possible in negotiations with me and then with minister glavany. in my view, the views and positions adopted last night represented the intelligent, rational and reasonable approach to this situation and, in my view, far from being a 'deflation'. i hope that my judgment on this will prove correct over the next ten days or so in order to resolve this particular problem once and for all.
- commissioner, i think - and not because i am french - that we must get out of this franco-british 'war'. we have already had the opportunity to say this on friday and i think that the work carried out by the agriculture ministers shows that it is necessary to find a compromise that is acceptable to everyone and not just to us, the parliamentarians, who are a little behind on information, but above all to consumers. if there is a problem today and if french experts have spoken out against this lifting of the embargo, it is that there are really arrests. i put myself in the position of the consumers who today have to get an idea of the situation. on the one hand, there is a french food safety agency which says that there would indeed be problems and, on the other hand, experts tell us unanimously that there is no problem. i'm not sure i know. i read in the newspaper that there are only three prion specialists on this committee of scientists. i therefore ask you, commissioner, whether these three experts on the subject of the prion really abstained, in which case the persons who voted unanimously were not experts on the prion and we could then understand why we accept the proposals and compromises and the additional questions put by france.
- madam president, commissioner, have there been more than 40 cases of atypical creutzfeldt-jakob disease, which have been fatal, caused by mad cow disease, that is to say, zoonotic disease? yes or no, commissioner, was the european parliament's committee on agriculture informed a month ago of a draft directive which says that before 2003 the origin of bovine animals could not be indicated on the labelling? mr commissioner, how is the scientific competence of the members of the scientific steering committee superior to that of the german scientists, the scottish scientists, the french scientists who tell you that there is a risk of zoonosis? commissioner, who chooses the members of your scientific steering committee? how did you do that ? what is their degree of independence? how do you explain, commissioner, that here, for seven years, from september 1989 to march 1996, two members of parliament, the belgian socialist josé happart and myself, said that there was a risk of zoonotic disease before the british agriculture minister admitted it in the house of commons on 24 march 1996? what does the precautionary principle mean, commissioner, if, in case of doubt, we do not refrain from selling cattle that are suspect? and finally, commissioner, in the land of fleming and the land of newton, are you still prepared to say that galileo is wrong in saying that the earth is turning when the university and the scientific steering committee tell him that the earth is not turning?
commission - i am pleased to have the opportunity to reiterate that the scientific steering committee is, as you have described it, the top of the pyramid. the members of the board are the best. i trust their advice, i have no doubts and i do not question their views in any way. (agitation) however, i must admit that the questions raised by the french authorities to obtain clarification on the issues identified seem to me quite reasonable. i have mentioned some of them in my previous replies, particularly in my reply to mr whitehead. these questions do not seem unreasonable to me. i therefore think it is wise to take advantage of the next few days to clarify these issues in order to avoid bringing them before the court of justice of the european communities. i think that is the most sensible and quickest solution. if that fails, the latter option is of course open and will be considered very quickly, but i believe that the line of action which i have identified as appropriate, and which has been endorsed by others, including my colleagues in the commission this morning, is the appropriate solution. i intend to continue this for at least a few more days.
thank you, mr byrne. my hammer was not meant for you, but for a colleague who was trying to interrupt you.
commission. - as you have very rightly said, the proposals on labelling have been put to parliament under rule 152 on the codecision procedure. and you are also right to say that these labelling provisions provide for the indication of data relating to the animal from birth, so as to make these labels a useful instrument. these labels provide information, but they will not, of course, provide absolute guarantees in terms of public health. their role is simply to keep us in the know, that's all. other procedures need to be put in place. we have put them in place and are now reviewing them to ensure public health safety - i am thinking in particular of the export regime based on the date itself. but yes, i agree with mr. goepel. the issue of labelling is important. parliament has been informed and we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss this in the future.
- commissioner, the commission has, during the crisis of recent days, repeatedly taken a position in favour of a european food safety agency. there are two possible conceptions of this agency. one i would find quite positive, which would be to create a consultative body of experts at european level without taking anything away from the power of decision of the national states on the fundamental matters that are closest to the concerns of the citizens, or another conception, which i would find much more negative, consisting in putting in place an additional element to take away from the nations their right to safeguard, which is nonetheless inalienable. this approach would lead, in accordance with the commission's old professional deformation, to giving priority to the free movement of goods over the health of consumers, as we have just seen in the case of the british beef embargo, in which, madam president, we would have to wait for the tests to be available. this leads us to the extraordinary conclusion that the precautionary principle is not applied within the european union, even though it is being sought in relations with third countries, particularly the united states. so, commissioner, which approach to the agency do you prefer, the one that is flexible and liberal with regard to nations or the one that is authoritarian with regard to nations?
the commission is aware of the problems that this has caused british farmers. this question has been hanging around for a long time now, even before i arrived at the commission. the decision taken by the french authorities on 1 october was a decision which had to be dealt with as far as possible within the timeframe concerned. since then, the only thing that can be said for sure is that the commission has shown no hesitation, nor have the people involved in the settlement of this difficult issue. i have said many times - and i repeat it again today - that i believe it is more constructive to remain diplomatic, but firm and determined, and to keep a cool head than to give in to instinctive reactions which can only end in a two-year trial at the court of justice of the european communities in luxembourg. i do not think that british farmers will benefit from the continuation of the embargo during this two-year period. i am firmly convinced of the soundness of the line i have taken, of the decisions i have taken, reinforced by my colleagues in the commission this morning. i look forward to a speedy resolution of this matter. last weekend i mentioned several times in interviews that i strongly wanted a diplomatic and swift resolution of this issue. sometimes it's hard to combine the two. that's what i'm trying to do. this is the result i am striving for. and it's not unreasonable to give me until next tuesday to do that.
- to conclude this debate, i think, commissioner, that it would be good to leave the question where it is. i had the impression, for a good part of this debate, that there was a kind of battle over whether, of france or britain, which of the two would not lose face. it seems to me that the subject - and the debate - is not there at all, but that it is mainly about the following question: what is being offered to all european consumers? the british consumer, like the french consumer, like the spanish consumer, has the right to know what he is eating and, from this point of view, labelling and traceability seem to me to be essential and indispensable. but, commissioner, should we not remember that the origin of all this is, geographically, great britain. i'm sorry, but that's where the bse cases started. why would you do that ? because there is a particularly productive agriculture, farmers who have been particularly sacrificed on the altar of agri-food, and that, rather than crying over the english farmers, it would be better to help them produce well, produce properly, which they have begun to do. i should not like to forget in this case that the welsh or the scots who continued to have more traditional production were punished in the same way as the english producers in the worst moments of the mad cow crisis. so, commissioner, i ask you what financial resources will be made available for traceability, for the slaughter of all the herds when there is a case of bse, for cases of plague, because that is how we will reassure the consumer, and it seems to me that all the countries of europe, from this point of view, need to stop saying, as we have done for years: the precautionary principle, while they continue to do the same flawed productivism, except to highlight two or three examples a little limit to exercise their rights. so, commissioner, what are the means that the agency you propose will have?
commission. - i entirely agree with you that the debate must be refocused and that it is not a question of who loses face or a question of winners or losers. defining this question in these terms does not help us much. similarly, those who view it in this light fail to recognize its full gravity. i also agree with you that consumer protection is of the utmost importance. in my view, it is the date-based export regime which has been designed by the commission on the advice of scientists that will give this guarantee to consumers. this is also the view of the scientists who advise the commission on these matters. i agree with you that labelling and traceability are very valuable tools. as regards the labelling issue, you asked me what measures would be introduced at community level in the legislation on this matter. from 2003, all cattle will carry a label indicating their place of birth, fattening, slaughter, breed and age. this is not possible at present, as the member states have not yet provided the information to do so. but this is on the agenda and will take effect from 2003. i would like to stress again the importance i attach to this whole issue in terms of consumer confidence, and in particular to the issue of public health. i intend to take this into account in the debates over the next few days.
i thank commissioner byrne for his help. that is why we have decided to close this item. before proceeding with the agenda, i would point out that tomorrow morning the reports by mr hughes and mrs smet will be discussed together, as the rapporteurs have requested, and everyone agrees on this point.
the agenda calls for the council and commission statements on the macroeconomic dialogue to promote growth and employment (cologne process).
- mr president, unemployment, whether full or partial, is a human tragedy for millions of families. it is a social catastrophe even in the countries of europe which claim to have the least number of unemployed and now the european council in cologne and the european commission are just filling their mouths with words when they talk about a european employment pact; but the measures proposed are ridiculous in view of the scale of the problem. the worst thing is that we have the cynicism to invoke unemployment to give more money to the bosses. the additional €500 million that the european bank is asked to release under the pretext of encouraging job creation and the €1 billion for high-tech smes will be officially earmarked for investment. i want to take a recent example of many of these large companies that are laying off people while making high profits. the abb alston power trust is preparing to cut a large number of jobs in several countries of the union, in england, france, germany, italy, sweden, not to mention other countries in europe and the world. why then does the european commission not use its authority to oppose job cuts of this kind? it decides on a myriad of directives which have the force of law in areas affecting competition. i'm finished. how can we understand its refusal to react to the human and socially irresponsible attitude of the big companies if it does not serve the interests of these big companies and has nothing but words of consolation for the unemployed?
mr president, the procedure which has been presented to us in connection with the macroeconomic dialogue is already characterized by two dominant features. the first is the expression of very vague aims which are mainly based on enchantment. the second is a formulation which appears to be liberal but which always imposes more constraints. the first is the very vague goals: growth, employment. we've been promised them for years. we have spoken about it in vienna, luxembourg, amsterdam, cardiff, i don't know what else. it is clear that, so far, the europe of full employment has been the europe that has mainly worsened unemployment. unemployment is not as high in developed non-eu countries such as switzerland or norway. to seriously raise the problem of full employment would be to question the validity of lowering frontiers, but we will not discuss this because we would have to oppose globalism; it would be to ask the question of the justification of excessive taxation and bureaucracy but we will not discuss this because it would be necessary to oppose the doctrines of socialism; it would be to question the merits of the immigration policy which weighs on employment, not to mention the costs it entails, but we will not discuss this because we would have to oppose the single thinking. it is therefore feared that the real problems will not be raised and also - this is the second aspect, however vague - that the terms of this dialogue will create more constraints. we are indeed talking about dialogue, but the mere fact that certain subjects are mentioned brings them into the sphere of competence of the union, more and more like the frog that eventually bursts because it wants to be as big as the ox. we are also told about coordination, harmonization and cohesion. we go as far as dosage, never to binding rules and detailed standards that would restrict everyone's freedom. yet this is the direction inexorably being taken. the unification of currencies has led to the unification of financial policies; that of financial policies, to the unification of economic policies; that of economic policies, to the unification of social policies. everyone knows very well that this is what a hidden hand is leading us to in this context. the vagueness of the discourse does not spare the freedom of nations, as one would have them believe, it only serves to conceal from them the objectives to which they are to be led, which are probably already known, but only to a small number of insiders.
- the first point is that the 1993 directive on working conditions is very inadequate and allows for all kinds of excesses. however, the expectations speak of the need to harmonize social conditions in progress. i therefore conclude that the general objective is to bring working conditions into line with those in the most advanced countries of the european union. but 48 hours of work per week, one day of rest per week, 11 hours of break between two working days are proposals which are already lagging behind the progress made in some member states. the directive also provides for a number of derogations which further aggravate the situation. consequently, this directive is not acceptable. the extension to railway and air transport employees would even be a step backwards, as the legislation of some member states is more advanced. it is absolutely essential that the provisions in favour of workers in force in certain european countries should not be abandoned under any pretext, including, and above all, that of competition. for example, in france, where night work by women is subject to very strict rules, no european directive should have called into question this acquis which should, on the contrary, have been extended to all european workers.
commission. - (nl) mr president, i should like to thank you for allowing me to speak a second time this evening. i would like to thank in particular the members of parliament who, during this sitting, have expressed their ideas and criticisms of the document we are debating this evening. i shall try to clarify some points, but i cannot deal with them all in detail. i would like to point out, however, that my colleagues and i have taken careful note of all the points made during this sitting and i would also like to stress that we will try to incorporate as closely as possible in the document we are debating tonight the ideas and opinions which prevail in this parliament. i would also like to thank the members of parliament who have expressed their support for the commission and welcomed this new strategy for the internal market. the commission, which is only at the beginning of this parliamentary term, expresses its full appreciation to them. we have done our best to work on this and to submit it to parliament as soon as possible so that parliament can also give its opinion on this matter as soon as possible. it is quite natural that many of the points in this document should be criticised, and some members have been criticised. but i do not agree with mr ortega when he points out that the internal market must become a reality for all citizens. the internal market is a reality. it exists and all citizens find in it an exceptionally high number of advantages, such as low inflation, low prices and a wide range of goods and services. in other words, i would like to say to mr medina ortega that the internal market is a reality which benefits everyone, and especially consumers, but that consumers may not be sufficiently aware of it. in this connection, the commission and members of parliament have a duty to make these same consumers more aware of the advantages offered by the internal market. some members, including mrs palacio, have spoken on what is now called soft law. in other words, these are not legislative instruments but instruments relating to the use of mutual acceptance of standards such as peer pressure and the adoption of best practice from other member states. it's an essential part of that communication. we are trying to draw inspiration from the original methods used to complete the internal market, in accordance with lord cockfield's 1992 plan. in fact, there are significant benefits to mutual recognition of standards and norms. we would like to continue this work. there is a difference between harmonization and mutual recognition of standards. i agree with mr lehne on this point. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. it is necessary to take a decision on a case-by-case basis, but, as one of the paragraphs in this resolution says, i would nevertheless like to stress the fundamental importance of mutual recognition of standards because they work faster, are more flexible in a rapidly changing world, and also take into account the requirement of subsidiarity. that is what mrs wallis has said and i agree with her entirely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in my view, the use of mutual recognition of norms and standards takes account of this balance. mrs berger said that she found the structure of the document somewhat disorderly. i am glad that mr maccormick has claimed otherwise. he said in english that it was a clear and rational document. these two statements are naturally contradictory. i personally think the structure of the document is logical. it has four strategic objectives, each of which is divided into three, four, five or six operational objectives. and, of course, there are the practical goals that need to be met. i cannot understand why mrs berger, with all the best will in the world, thinks that the structure of the document is uncoordinated. it is a very good idea, however, to advocate the association of the european parliament with the annual cycle set out in the document. i think that is a very important point. i would also like to stress that each year, at the agreed dates, the commission will be very happy to hear the remarks and ideas of the european parliament, when the concrete targeted actions can be reviewed and adapted during the annual cycle. we believe that the involvement of the european parliament is a vital element, not only because the council, the european parliament and the commission form, under the european constitution, the three vertices of the triangle which is obliged to determine everything in a harmonious way, but also because parliament, here assembled, is best placed to express the views of the citizens on all matters, so that the commission can draw the appropriate conclusions. i would therefore like to assure mrs berger and other members of this house that we will listen with the greatest possible attention to the views of parliament as they are put forward each year or perhaps twice a year, or even in a closer relationship with the commission. i would now like to turn in particular to the remarks made by mr maccormick about the situation of artists. i agree that mr maccormick is making an important point when he mentions the case of artists travelling in europe, namely those who work in different countries, such as a concert pianist or a dance troupe, or the case of producers or artists who spread culture. i myself would like to make an effort to deal not only with freedom of movement within the european union but also with taxation, in order to establish a more solid basis. but mr. maccormick will agree with me that it's not easy. there is no european income tax and there is no risk of any, which is perhaps a good thing. in any case, i agree with mr maccormick that the tax situations of artists working in different countries of the european union deserve special attention and i am even prepared to deal with this issue if i receive realistic suggestions on the subject. as regards university lecturers in italy who are not italian nationals, i can tell mr maccormick that just today i signed a letter to a member of the european parliament who had been complained to about this. we are very attentive to this problem and are dealing with this matter. mrs peijs drew a contrast between the minimum threshold and the maximum level of harmonisation. it has said that it would prefer by far the maximum level of harmonisation and on this point i agree with it in principle. ideally, the european union as a whole should agree on a maximum level of harmonisation and each country should stick to it. but of course this general principle may be affected by the defensible exceptions. take, for example, the social standards that are higher in some countries than in others. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. we cannot prevent these countries from setting standards that are higher than those generally accepted. i am basically following the same principle as mrs peijs: i am also committed to maximum standards and maximum standards, but in some areas it is not possible to prevent countries from going further than is generally accepted. in this respect, i think we must try to strike a fair balance between the internal market on the one hand and the desire to go further in environmental and social standards on the other. mrs peijs also spoke about the postal services directive - an extremely important point. right now, my services and i, to be honest, are busy trying to move this case forward. it may be a little too early to give details about that at the moment. but i entirely agree with mrs peijs that it is not desirable that companies should be bought up by certain monopoly postal services, in other words that monopoly operators should take over certain companies. it is not desirable that monopolies should be used to acquire companies which carry out the same activity but are independent, as it is clear that liberalization in the postal sector has not progressed sufficiently, or at least that liberalization has not been applied in a sufficiently correct manner by some postal services. we must be very careful in this matter because, i repeat, we cannot accept this situation; i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i leave aside the remarks made by mrs peijs on the decentralisation of competition decisions. not that i don't want to address this issue; as a minister in a dutch government, i have dealt with competition policy in the distant past, but this issue is far too much the province of my colleague mr monti to dwell on it tonight. the commission concluded by stating that 'implementation is the priority'. i agree with mrs peijs on this point. setting a policy is one thing, enforcing it is another. one of the key points in this document on the new strategy is also that we accept that the legislation is drawn up in outline but that everything now rests on its implementation, compliance and monitoring of that implementation, so that the commission can also support the correct implementation of the internal market provisions by means of infringement procedures. my penultimate remark concerns the speech by mr berenguer fuster, who said that consumer protection could not be at the expense of the internal market. the first strategic objective of the document we have put forward and which is the subject of this evening's debate is simply to strike a balance between the internal market on the one hand and the protection of consumer interests and the environment on the other. we are trying, hopefully with some success, to create this balance and thus avoid that consumer interests or consumer protection are at the expense of the internal market. the internal market is first and foremost a market for consumers, but it is also a market for producers and industries. in other words, if consumer protection is at the expense of the internal market, we are putting ourselves in a difficult situation, which is not the ideal situation for us. and i think that is not the ideal situation for the members of this parliament either. in conclusion, mr president, let me return to the remark made by mr harbour which i very much appreciated. i know that mr harbour has a very positive opinion of the internal market strategy document. i thank him for his presence at the hearing last friday, at which mrs palacio also gave a very well-received general presentation. i also want to thank her very much. mr harbour said that the internal market must first of all be responsive and flexible, in other words it must respond to the wishes of consumers and citizens of this country on the one hand and be flexible on the other. on this point i agree with him completely. we live in a world that changes at lightning speed. the new electronic means which can be used to conduct commerce are well known, are becoming more and more popular and are generating their own problems. the commission must provide a response to these new means. i would like to persuade mr harbour and all the other members of this house that the commission has the ambition to be responsive and flexible so that we can indeed meet the needs of the moment while taking into account the interests of the consumer. mr president, i hope i have not been too long on my word. i thank the members of this house and you for your patience. i also thank the members for their attention. i would be glad to have a more in-depth exchange of views on this important subject with the members of this parliament, if possible.
thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. i have received a motion for a resolution tabled on the basis of rule 40 (5) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. statements entered in the register - agenda for the next sitting: see minutes (the sitting was closed at 10.05 p.m.)
- mr president, the european union's european employment strategy affirms the political consideration of the fight against unemployment at european level. this is desirable. it's not unrealistic. the main economic and monetary policy guidelines have real consequences for employment at european level. and this is desirable if we are to curb competition from below, i.e. social competition, and the increase in inequalities between territories and between social groups within the economic union. however, the european employment strategy as it has been developed has been gradually implemented since the luxembourg summit and is marked by questionable ideological foundations and a somewhat dynamic conception of institutional practices. some people have asked why there should be an employment policy. the debate on the macroeconomic dialogue yesterday showed that monetary stability policy is enough. no one has yet demonstrated the validity of the postulate that monetary stability and full competitiveness are sufficient for employment to follow. our last debate in strasbourg on michelin and company restructuring was an opportunity to amplify our doubts on this point. once it has been said that the aim of european economic policy is employment, and that this has been decreed and loudly proclaimed, without ever realistically and pragmatically checking the validity of this assertion, a link of subordination between the economic and the social is engraved in the marble of the treaties, which ultimately reduces the latter to the management of competition for everyone and everyone for a place on an increasingly contracted labour market. the consequence of this economicist, minimalist approach is that the debate on the means of creating employment, which deviates from these liberal-inspired dogmas, is evacuated, almost forbidden. it is hard to believe that out of 22 employment guidelines, not one concerns the actual reduction of working time. none of them concerns public investment. and even active support for local employment initiatives is reduced and all attempts to examine the quality and sustainability of the jobs created are dismissed. we have to figure it out. we must reduce the number of registered unemployed in a europe where the number of those living below the poverty line is not decreasing. before i talk about the greens/efa proposals, let me mention one concern. some european circles seem to be seized by a feeling of happy optimism, with their eyes fixed on the revival of growth and the only officially recorded and registered unemployment figures. a large number of political leaders seem to forget that many of the jobs created are temporary, part-time, unchosen, generally imposed on women, and do not always provide those who are thus employed with incomes that allow them to cross the poverty line. without seriously assessing the sustainability and quality of growth, there is a risk of underestimating the efforts still needed to give the european construction a social character. this is why we feel it is imperative to assess the success or failure of the european employment strategy in terms of indicators that measure both the number of registered unemployed and the living standards and quality of jobs created. only when we reduce both precariousness and unemployment can we consider that the european union represents a progress of civilization for its inhabitants. for the greens, the choice of an ambitious european employment strategy should set in motion a number of actions, most of which are currently ignored by the guidelines proposed by the commission. the implementation of the commitments made in favour of the young and longterm unemployed must be accelerated. that's right. job creation must be promoted by combining several policies to support the development of sustainable activities. it is essential to give priority to local employment initiatives, to support the social economy by giving it a status, and to give real recognition to the third sector, including public funding, as this form of economy is emerging between the traditional public sector and the profit-making sector, based on the creation of activities useful for life in society. large-scale consultations and public debates are needed to decide on major projects: public transport networks, energy saving programmes, housing renovation and construction, which are highly job-creating and helpful to the quality of life for all. finally, we must reduce working time, a taboo subject which is forbidden to be discussed in europe. we must give ourselves the means to evaluate concretely the initiatives for reducing working time which are in any case operating, in the same or different ways, all over europe. and to move forward, we really need to rely on collective intelligence. it is essential to have a policy of recognition of collective projects and the expression of the unemployed. it is necessary, at a minimum, to preserve their full rights to benefits and allowances. we propose that you support two amendments which go in this direction, amendments nos 30 and 31, on which i shall ask the president to vote by roll-call. finally, we need to change institutional practices to really focus on democratic debate and the involvement of all partners. this is the whole chapter on social and civil dialogue, for which we will have to find the legal basis at the next intergovernmental conference.
mr president, is the text which has been presented as a compromise to the members of this house the same as the one signed by the political groups? the answer is no. i think it is extremely dangerous for the presidency to endorse this kind of practice which casts doubt on the credibility of democracy in the services.
- mr president, commissioner, the guidelines rightly emphasise employability, i.e. the possibility for jobseekers to fill the job for which they are applying. but we must never forget that this is only one possibility. the difference between this possibility and the reality of employment will depend on the supply of jobs in society. the guidelines speak of this as being an entrepreneurial spirit; they are right, but to thrive, entrepreneurs need a favourable policy, low interest rates, a competitive euro and, above all, to know how many jobs a given entrepreneurial activity offers. this is the fundamental problem of the job content of growth. you admit that at less than 2.4%, there was no decline in unemployment. at present france denies this diagnosis by pursuing an even more cautious policy of reducing working time. we hope that it will be accelerated and extended in a coordinated way to the whole of europe. finally, there is a form of entrepreneurship which is particularly rich in jobs, namely cooperatives, associations, the third sector. this sector deserves a special status, particularly from a tax point of view, and that is the meaning of the amendments we are presenting to you.
- mr president, madam commissioner, paradoxically perhaps, with the menrad report unemployment is back on the european scene. employment is bad in europe with 17 million unemployed and 60 million poor. the employment rate in the community has remained the same as in 1994, mainly due to the explosion of precariousness. we're so far off the mark. the union needs ambition for its employment policies, it needs voluntary and binding measures that break with the destructive logic currently in place. whereas money should be used to meet the needs of women and men, the needs of our societies, the michelin case symbolizes the dictatorship of the law of money over the economy and individuals. the european citizens expect strong signals from our parliament. the guidelines should therefore, to be effective, incorporate binding quantifiable targets for job creation. a reduction in working time without reduction in wages, flexibility or precariousness is clearly on the agenda as we move towards the year 2000. the union should be ambitious in mobilising money for employment with control of public aid to enterprises, with a credit policy that penalizes destructive practices that promote job creation. finally, the proclamation of equal opportunities requires the rejection of all discrimination against women, particularly in terms of pay. mr menrad certainly did a very good job under difficult conditions. the report contains good things, but in my view it does not live up to the requirements and expectations, despite the fact that it takes account of a number of amendments which have been discussed in the commission. it is therefore only natural that a number of decisive amendments should be tabled here by my group and others; the fact that the house will take them into account will determine the real will of this parliament.
- mr president, the figures for unemployment and poverty in europe are still catastrophic: 60 million poor, 9% unemployed, 25% unemployed young people; this is not what we call a positive balance sheet, especially if we consider that the beauty of 1999 was due above all to an improvement in the economic situation, for which neither the governments nor the european union were responsible. in france, it could even be said that the creation of market jobs is taking place despite government policy. in fact, reading the two menrad reports, one cannot help thinking that the european union wants to play the rescuer when its own policies are largely responsible for the social accidents that affect tens of millions of europeans. since the treaty of amsterdam, brussels has officially, fully and legally acquired a new area of influence in social and employment matters. indeed, it can never be said enough that it was these ultra-liberal policies at home and ultra-globalist policies abroad, his cult of open borders and the king of the market that led our economies to where they are today. some of the guidelines proposed by the commission may appear to be positive. it is even surprising to find some common sense proposals for a voluntarist family policy. but these good ideas stop at the head of the chapter, while the examination of the detailed measures reveals the true nature of the union's action on employment. this action is only a pretext for extending the powers of brussels in areas where its intervention can only be harmful: social protection, pensions, wage policy, taxation. nothing will be spared us: harmonization, unification of legislation, alignment on the so-called social minimum; what we are facing is precarious employment, worsening working conditions and widespread social regression. it is time for a change in policy.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent contribution and also thank the administrators of the committee on employment and social affairs who, given the conditions in which we have been working, helped us very late at night. with its constructive proposals for the employment policies of the member states for the year 2000, based on a fair analysis of the joint employment report, mr menrad's report sets out the way forward for europe to make the most of its extraordinary human capital. it is important that the demographic aspect was mentioned in this report, as it is true that an ageing continent is also an economic suicide. this report is perfectly in line with the luxembourg process, which i would have preferred with quantified targets, and with our desire to know the outcome of the commission's proposed annual national action plans for employment. in this respect, i share the view of the rapporteur who insists on the need for our institution to monitor jointly with the commission the implementation of the european employment initiatives in the member states. it is essential that a transparent and democratic public debate can take place and i have no doubt that if there has been a luxembourg process, it is also because our parliament has been somewhat incitative in this area. but what i would like to say is that it seems to me to be very important that this strategy, which is beginning to bear fruit, should not be broken by rigid measures which are not in the interests of businesses and workers. yesterday, french parliamentarians met with french industrialists and said to them: we do not want rigid and inappropriate measures to break up this movement for employment. second point of my speech. i would like to stress in the context of this policy the role of the social dialogue, which must be renewed. the participation of workers in decisions affecting them is essential and if, at the time, mr schweitzer, president of renault, had consulted the european advisory committee, set up and proposed by our assembly, we would probably not have had vilvorde, and we might not have had michelin. secondly, the voluntary participation of employees in the capital of their enterprise is also desirable and urgent, as the rapporteur has said in his amendment 12 to the employment guidelines, for two reasons. firstly, for financial reasons, which relate to the need to improve the equity capital of enterprises, to resist the dictates of the large investment funds and to preserve employment, but also for a human reason, which lies in the evolution of the jobs of the future, requiring an increasingly high level of training and personal commitment that only participation intelligently values and encourages.
commission - (el) madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank mr menrad for the work he has done. i would like to thank mr grosch and mrs theorin, who have given us their views on the employment package. i think that the two hours of debate have produced a positive conclusion: it is clear that the european parliament is following and assessing developments, but above all that it is putting forward proposals in this extremely sensitive area of the european employment strategy. and since the honourable members have made many recommendations and suggestions on the commission's role in setting binding targets for more vigorous action, i would like to stress that the european employment strategy is about supporting and encouraging national policies and that in this context we are trying to cooperate as closely as possible with the member states. today the employment guidelines were discussed in the committee on employment and social affairs and in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, and they are the subject of intensive consultations before being submitted to the council, where we hope they will be adopted in full and then formally examined by the joint council of ministers for the economy and employment on 29 november. i would like to point out that there seems to be agreement on the way in which the guidelines will be programmed and implemented in the course of the next year. there are no major changes, the four core areas remain the same and the changes to the guidelines are minor and concern four points: one, increased focus on labour market access as a result of training programmes; secondly, a major effort has been made in the field of information technology, with the commission's forthcoming initiative on the information society, with a view to linking employment and information technology; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. i would like to make a few brief remarks, madam president, on some of the key points raised by mr menrad in his report and which have been taken up by many speakers. firstly, it is clear that the successful implementation of the european employment strategy presupposes a stable macroeconomic framework, and that is why there is coordinated and permanent cooperation throughout the macroeconomic policy process. secondly, the important question of indicators and the harmonization of statistical services and indicators in the member states. this is a question, as has been very rightly said, which is neither technical nor technocratic but fundamentally political. the fact that we have a monitoring base for the member states is both extremely important and extremely difficult. this is one of our priorities and we are working on the harmonization of the indicators. the third point is lifelong learning. despite our efforts, it is clear from our recommendations to the member states that this issue has not received the attention it deserves. our objective for the coming year is to have a stronger and better structured policy for lifelong learning in the member states. the next point concerns information technology. the goal has been set, objectives have been assigned at european level in the field of the information society. i think we can be more ambitious and set common european objectives in the field of information, because there can be no convergence of the member states without convergence in this particularly sensitive area of the information society. i would also remind you that at the cologne council the heads of state and government set targets for school internet access. i would like to emphasize the essential issue of development in the member states and its translation by local authorities into policies at regional level. the finnish presidency has given impetus and priority to this area, and we believe that the council will endorse this approach. the proposal for closer cooperation between the commission and the european parliament to give new impetus to the european employment strategy has been put forward on a number of occasions. it is clear that there are concrete procedures in place since cologne - those adopted in the spring and autumn - but i am waiting for proposals and practical arrangements for implementing this closer cooperation, which, in any case, must be established at an early stage with the competent committee, the committee on employment and social affairs.
i thank the commissioner for this intervention. the debate is closed. the vote will take place in a few moments. mr cappato and mr costa have informed me that they do not wish to take part in the vote. i guess that means they're here.
it is clear that there is no question of reopening the debate which has taken place on this question. on the other hand, mrs smet asked me to speak on a proposal, i believe, to postpone the vote until the strasbourg part-session, and i will give her the floor immediately.
i'm all right. the rapporteur has just made his proposal.
commission - (el) madam president, i fully share the european parliament's concern at the seriousness of the situation in chechnya. last night the commissioner responsible had the opportunity to explain the content and the beneficiaries of the agreement under consideration, which was concluded primarily with universities and the scientific community in russia. the commission believes that this dialogue and its continuation can make a useful contribution to the development of the process and to the strengthening of the forces we are calling for in russia. we therefore believe that it would be a bad signal in this respect to block the agreement in question.
thank you, commissioner. the house is now well informed on this matter. (parliament approved the request for a postponement of the vote)
i thank you, mr menrad, for this explanation. you have kindly sent us your views on each amendment and, as is customary, i shall convey your position to this house. - the 13th amendment
all right, mr menrad, thank you for that important clarification.
- madam president, this is a brief reminder of the rules of procedure on the basis of rule 29. it has been clear to everyone that a number of our colleagues in one group voted differently from the majority of their group. this is in the normal exercise of the freedom of mandate, which is that of parliamentarians. this therefore means that one can have voting independence, without, however, the group being deprived of political affinities within the meaning of article 29 of that regulation. if the same rule applies to small groups as to large groups, or to large groups as to small groups, i do not think that the conclusion will be drawn that the epp group should be dissolved on the grounds that this or that national group has voting independence in this parliament. but then, for the sake of consistency, our parliament would have to reverse the decision which its majority felt it had to take in respect of a group which had observed the independence of its members' voting rights and had included this in its rules of procedure, which does not exclude the existence of political affinities within the meaning of article 29.
- madam president, i would like to make an explanation of vote on the menrad report, in particular on amendment no 31, on which the french socialist delegation and i abstained, although it was rejected. i would like to make it clear that the radical wording is the main reason for this. indeed, if we can share the idea that aid or employment incentives cannot be subjected to strict and rigid technocratic control conditions which risk excluding some of the jobseekers in difficulty from these aids, our approach encourages us to propose not control but positive and constructive support in the procedures to be carried out, which, as we know, remain difficult. the practices already in place for this type of support, especially for the most disadvantaged, show us that it is not enough to grant financial aid which would relieve us of everything else. this is ultimately a matter of the good conscience of the person who gives the money. but a genuine social accompaniment of the objectives to be set with people in difficulty in the context of contractual procedures is the only way for aid and incentives to seek employment to produce their full effects, not only for access to employment itself but also for what is closely associated with it, namely a lasting reintegration of people totally weakened by the destructive processes of unemployment. it is also in this spirit that we tabled an amendment on positive action which, unfortunately, was not adopted.
in writing. - i spoke last week about the michelin case and the real scandal of collective redundancies in an otherwise successful company. i would like to speak today on the employment guidelines for the year 2000. it is the treaty of amsterdam which gives me this opportunity and i take this opportunity to say how important it seems to me that the european parliament should be formally consulted on this subject. the current aim is not to add new guidelines, since the basis adopted in 1997 seems to be working, but to amend them, building on the 1999 joint employment report, and adapting them to the new socioeconomic situation. what this report shows is that progress has been made since 1998, with unemployment rising from 10.1% to 9.9% and 1.8 million more people in the labour force. but these positive figures should not obscure the serious disparities and problems which persist. thus, youth unemployment remains close to 20%! half of the unemployed in the european union are longterm unemployed. many jobs remain precarious, and 60 million people live below the poverty line. the european employment strategy must therefore be given new impetus and ambitious targets set, such as halving unemployment within five years. this can only be done by acting on several fronts using active preventive and corrective methods. this requires, in particular, a reform and modernisation of education and training, which must benefit everyone, without discrimination based on social background or person, and which must incorporate technological and information technology changes, and a vigorous fight against all forms of unemployment and precarious work. it is essential to prevent people from 'settling down' in unemployment. the unemployed need support, guidance and motivation to enter the world of work. imaginative measures must be found which can adapt to the diversity of national situations and respect the dignity of jobseekers. but be careful! we must not fall into the trap of certain politicians who say that under the pretext of being unemployed we must accept any job because it is better to have a precarious job than no job at all! the aim is to integrate the unemployed into the world of work in a sustainable way and with rights!
in writing. - this report is the very type of debate where political consensus is excluded. this is a highly political issue, with the conservative right flirting with precariousness and the left seeking to achieve social convergence, emphasising the link between employment, quality of employment and social protection. the amsterdam progress gives us the opportunity for the first time to join this discussion on the employment guidelines through mr menrad's report. that is why we must set ourselves targets, with a timetable. hence the importance of the amendments tabled by my group calling for (1) that the combined efforts of the member states and the european union converge towards an employment rate of 65% in the next five years, (1) that preventive measures aim at the long-term reduction of unemployment by 50% in each member state over the next five years, (2) that positive measures be taken to encourage young unemployed people to take up employment and facilitate their integration into the labour market, (3) that a new deadline of 2002 be set for equipping schools with computers and allowing students to access the internet. employment is not only measured in terms of job creation, but above all in terms of the quality of employment, education and training for all. we will be judged on the overall quality of this project, on the quantitative results, but also on the qualitative results, on a new way of life, on working life and life outside work, on a shared time. let us dare and put all our weapons on our side, on the side of life and integration.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the treaty of amsterdam recognises the european parliament's ability to be more closely associated with the implementation of the european employment pact and that our assembly has therefore been able to express its views on the guidelines for the member states for the year 2000 in the fight against unemployment. improving vocational integration, developing entrepreneurship, encouraging the adaptability of enterprises and their workers, and strengthening equal opportunities for women and men are the main pillars of this policy. beyond these ambitious principles, we have asked the council and the commission to turn the guidelines into concrete proposals to be translated into practical and effective measures in the member states. although i welcome the fall in unemployment at european level (9.4% of the working population in 1999 compared with 10.1% in 1998), the hard facts must not in any way obscure the very difficult human and social economic situation in the most disadvantaged regions of the community. the fruits of growth are not shared by all, far from it! the french overseas departments, for example, have dramatically high unemployment rates: martinique 27%, guadeloupe 30%, réunion 37%. this situation, far from being resolved, has been steadily worsening in recent years, with the aggravating circumstance that every year tens of thousands of young people are thus struck by the ban on hope! at 25 years old, having, as they say, "life ahead of you" but without any chance to conceive a life project, with no other prospects than unemployment and a minimum subsistence income, is this not worse than a death sentence? in these circumstances, should we be surprised (or outraged as some are) at the temptation to violence that is plaguing our youth and, in episodes, shaking the lid of our social cauldron? this situation is all the more worrying because it is not due to cyclical phenomena: it is our remoteness, our insularity, the very structure of our societies, with their demographic dynamism, that are causing this situation. it is not enough for growth to return and become sustainable to bring about the prospect of full employment again! but this present reality must not be regarded as a fatality! nothing is inevitable, which is why imagination as well as heart is needed to find specific answers to equally specific problems. in this respect, the new article 299 (2) of the treaty of amsterdam, by enshrining the particular nature of the french overseas departments as the outermost regions of the union, gives us the possibility of adopting measures derogating from community law in the interests of their development. it should be recalled that the european council in cologne last june invited the commission to present, before the end of this year, a set of proposals to give substance to this new legal basis. this is where our congregation must be vigilant, so that these actions are marked by boldness and ambition. this is the only way to cope with the difficulties facing these regions, the only chance of not disappointing the immense expectations of their people, who are the advanced points of europe in the heart of the caribbean and the indian ocean.
in writing. - i cannot vote for the whole report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. these guidelines do not intend to change the dictatorship of the market and multinationals over the economy. however, the european union has 20 million unemployed and 60 million poor people and there are no binding measures in the guidelines to prevent redundancies and job-cutting schemes. the only remedies proposed are aid to enterprises which, in most cases, are not job creators. the so-called employment policy will at best be reduced to a few empty phrases, at worst it will continue to be used as a pretext for subsidizing the employers, at a loss of funds, unless authoritarian measures are taken to prohibit large european companies which are making profits from cutting jobs at the same time. the fact that the european states grouped in the union refuse to take binding measures in this particular area shows that its main concern is to remove all obstacles, including social obstacles, from large enterprises in order to maximise their profits and by no means to put an end to unemployment.
parliament has exhausted its agenda. transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of next part-sessions: see minutes
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
- i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 4 november 1999. the minutes were adopted: see minutes.
- since our last partsession, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly in the last few days, several terrible disasters have occurred, disasters that have hit hard, whether it be the new earthquake in turkey or the floods in france. i simply wanted to express, with your agreement, on behalf of the european parliament, my deep sympathy and full solidarity with the victims of these new tragedies and their families. (applause) i would like to thank
- of course, mrs napoletano, i'll convey to the right person everything you've said, all our sympathy. it is the same plane that mr swoboda, mrs pack, mrs nicholson and i took when we went to pristina. this is a tragedy. we will ask to know the causes. we'll see about that with mr. kushner and, once again, you can count on me to convey our deepest sympathy to the families of the victims. composition of parliament - composition of committees - submission of documents - submission of reports to committees - transmission by the council of texts of agreements - petitions: see minutes.
- mr andrews, i can tell you that your wish has been granted even sooner than you might have imagined, since the debate on chechnya is on our agenda for wednesday afternoon and we will of course hear the statement from both the council and the commission.
- i think our house is sufficiently informed. (parliament rejected the request) - i would also like to inform you that the commission's communication on the decisions taken at today's meeting will deal with the embargo on british beef and the production and sale of tobacco.
- mr poettering, since the debate on chechnya is scheduled from 5 to 6 p.m. anyway, we shall have to interrupt the debate you are talking about from 5 to 6 p.m. if we have the debate on chechnya at 3 p.m. and then continue the debate on the very important report you have mentioned, i do not feel that there is any prejudice. i find it very embarrassing to have a debate on the situation in chechnya in the absence of the commissioner responsible for the issue. you know we never liked that.
- madam president, i would like to support your proposal. perhaps it can be made clear, to enlighten our colleagues on the subject, since we discussed it in the conference of presidents, that we had, in the foreseeable absence of mr patten, suggested the name of mr verheugen, not in a personal capacity, but because he is one of the commissioners who is particularly involved in international affairs. but on a sensitive subject like chechnya, we did not want to read a text that had been prepared by someone else. so i'm totally on board with your proposal. i think it would be better to move this debate to the agenda and have the opportunity to hear the commissioner directly.
- thank you, mr. dimitrakopoulos, for that understanding.
- let's go in order, my colleagues. it is the shifting of the report on chechnya. i will give the floor to mr leinen, the second rapporteur, and then we will decide on this matter.
- thank you, mr leinen. i put to the vote the change of the debate on chechnya to 3 p.m. instead of 5 p.m. (parliament agreed to the request) we now have the proposal by mr barón crespo to abolish question time in the council, a proposal put forward by mr leinen, which would propose that question time be held in the evening, at the end of the institutional debate, which seems to me to be entirely in line with what mr barón crespo is saying.
mr poettering, i think the council would agree wholeheartedly with mr barón crespo's proposal to postpone question time to after the dimitrakopoulos-leinen debate. what's your position?
- who is in favour of keeping question time, putting it at the end of the leinen-dimitrakopoulos report. (parliament agreed to the request) as regards thursday: as regards the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance, the green group would like to see two additional points added to point 3, human rights. first, the case of alexander nikitin. who would like to speak to make this request?
- thank you, mrs hautala. (parliament agreed to the request) the green group is calling for the addition of the words 'violation of human rights in connection with the proposed oil pipeline between chad and cameroon' to the heading 'human rights'.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0043/1999), on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and amending council directive 88/77/eec (5734/1/1999 - c5-0028/1999 - 1997/0350 (cod)) (commission on the environment, public health and consumer policy) (rapporteur: mr lange).
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a happy moment to see the daphne programme renewed. the determination of the members of parliament, from 1996 with the report by marianne eriksson, to today's report by maria antonia avilés perea, has therefore made it possible for violence against young people, children and women to be the subject of political action. i weigh my words when i speak of politics, because this violence is unacceptable in the eyes of countries which have been built for fifty years on the principle of human rights. let me stress the dignity of the victims of violence, the need for a proper understanding of their health and their mental and physical integrity. prevention seems to be the right word. if we restore to it all its richness, which is to act on the causes as well as on the consequences, then the question is indeed political, in the sense that we want the causes of violence, which are mostly male - and i regret, as mrs gröner does, that men are so little present here in the chamber tonight - to be analysed and combated in the framework of the programme to come. we also hope that the consequences of violence and the effectiveness of a remedy, and more, will be taken into account in order to put an end to this violence. that is why we must give this programme its full scope, both for the children on the one hand and for the women on the other. these are two categories of victims which must be distinguished. europe must dedicate a day to the rights of the child, as is happening in france, for example, and as the european parliament has been calling for some time. are we not celebrating the tenth anniversary of the international convention on the rights of the child today? therefore, the dignity of women must be unambiguous. if the word 'sexual exploitation' means the trade that can be made with the body of another, then there is no good trade, nor is there any human trafficking or prostitution. states as states cannot accept, even organize, or even promote the commercialization of women. the awareness is recent with regard to rape, for example, which was only so recently considered at best a crime, whereas today we know well that it is a crime. the awareness is recent; i am glad that violence against children and women is no longer a taboo. if this programme is to be seen as an experiment, it must be understood in the strong sense, as a model, and not just as a one-off experiment for the future enlargement of europe, as for the responsibility of democratic europe throughout the world. i believe that we europeans have a responsibility. i hope that the new daphne programme will be implemented as soon as possible and, if possible, with more resources in time and budget. but i would like to see that, beyond a health approach, we know that this is a fundamental human right; i would like this programme to be guided by the objective of combating all forms of violence against children and women.
- mr president, raising public awareness, exchanging information, and thus trying to protect children, adolescents and women from all these situations of fracture and despair - that is the great mission of the daphne programme. behind these texts are recitals, the broken individual fates of children and women who suffer physical violence but also and more insidiously moral harassment. this is the physical and mental health of europeans. direct or indirect violence against any person deemed weak must be condemned without complacency. i personally feel that violence is on display in the marriage, in the family, in business, on television, or even in political and social life. perversion, aggression, predation are all the more fascinating and the victims are treated with little regard in this world of the law of the stronger. our time refuses to set standards. it tolerates perversion because to set a limit today means an intention to censor. we have lost our moral or religious boundaries and we don't regain our capacity to be outraged unless the facts are visible, like bruises on a face, or appear on the public stage, relayed by the media. information campaigns are therefore needed and the daphne programme will support them. violence belongs to a world without borders and not to barbaric and distant times. we are indeed in 1999 and we are sitting in this chamber in strasbourg and discussing violence against children and women in europe. we are not living in a cruel and obscurantist mythical middle ages but at the dawn of the 21st century. i strongly support the establishment of the daphne programme; we must support any initiative that aims to make visible this dark side of our societies, especially as borders are being erased in the face of all kinds of evil networks: prostitution, paedophilia, and others, via the internet for example. so our states must work together, share information. the european union can add value to the action of its members. but it is also the responsibility of our states to protect these women and children and all those who are being abused by society. the state knows its citizens because it knows their mentality, their mental and social culture, which it has, in part, shaped. it is up to the national state to promote the family as a support structure and to create men free from these patterns of violence that they reproduce from generation to generation.
- mr president, i am of course not opposed to a part of the budget being devoted to preventive measures against violence against children, adolescents and women, provided that it is devoted to financial support for associations which are active on the ground. however, i find the proposed amount ridiculous and the council's willingness to reduce it further shocking. the european parliament and the council are very concerned because, in addition to violence in private and sexual exploitation, there is an increase in social violence, which is the result of the worsening of poverty and the rise in misery among the working classes. the first of these is the seriousness of unemployment, but also the deterioration of working conditions for those who still have jobs. for example, forcing women, mothers of families, to work at night on production lines to make machines more profitable and increase shareholders' profits, is that not violence? the european institutions not only tolerate this violence, but have made it worse by removing from the social legislation of some member states provisions which had a certain degree of protection for women. and the daphne programme's soothing speeches do not make up for the rest.
- mr president, on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of this convention, a text which recognizes the child as a unique subject, by attributing to him specific rights (the right to life, the right to identity and to a family, the right to freedom of expression, the right to be fed and educated), it is nonetheless true that on our continent, every thirty seconds, a child will be abused, raped or broken, indoctrinated, the victim of inadequate policies, of family and economic changes, and also the victim of the fact that we do not apply this international convention. it is therefore our duty, at the end of this century, to ask ourselves about the millions of children who are subjected to prostitution, who commit suicide, who take drugs and, at a time when our continent is only just beginning to discover the ravages of paedophilia, which we have so long turned a blind eye to, we must ask ourselves why, in our democratic and economically developed countries, which every year proudly celebrate the declaration of human rights, these rights are so violated when the most fragile are at stake, that is, our children. in this respect, commissioner, we would like to see a great deal of visibility for our children. during the previous term of office, i tabled a report on behalf of parliament on child and family protection, in which i called for a budget that was visible to our children and for the creation of a specific unit within the commission for child and family protection. i also stressed the need to convene, at our instigation, an extraordinary european council on the future of family and child protection policies in the union and to present to parliament an annual report comparing the legislation of our countries in this field. finally, we would like - and i would like to do so, as many of my colleagues do - to be able to consider, within the framework of the igc, the introduction of an unquestionable legal basis for actions in favour of the family and children. finally, while the first world summit for children will be taken up at the un in 2001, i suggest that a european parliament for children be set up in our parliament, prepared with them, to celebrate this european world summit in 2001.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the rights of children are not respected, there is violence. and if collective violence is the most visible, everyday violence, neighborhood problems that can be called small violence are very badly experienced by those who suffer from it and it is in this climate that some children are born, that some children grow up today. violence is an indicator of social problems that need to be addressed urgently. and instead of orthopaedic or repressive solutions, it is time to give priority to preventive solutions, creating a different family context, which would finally avoid unnecessary individual and social suffering and practice a genuine policy of integration and socialization from birth. the important thing is not to try to draw up a catalogue of rights, but to make everyone aware of the importance of early childhood, in order to avoid in the years to come a society where young people, because they were denied their rights in childhood, have only the rebellion to express themselves. it is our duty to build this society where everyone has been respected from his very childhood. human beings are born dependent, helpless. the baby has only rights. he can't have homework. homework comes with conscience and conscience awakens with education and there can be no successful education without respect for the person of the baby, without respect for the person of the child. we must support the rights of the child in third countries, but also in our own countries. we must collectively reflect on the living conditions of children in the various european countries, especially in urban areas, and we must work together and provide funding to help families in difficulty, especially single-parent families and vulnerable parents. our goal is to have well-balanced children. it is therefore our duty to protect and educate them.
- madam commissioner, i come from a country where the head of a multinational company, michelin, has insisted on informing its shareholders as a matter of priority of his decision to lay off 10% of its employees from various countries in the next three years. during the partsession last month, you, commissioner, warmly and convincingly affirmed the commission's desire to strengthen the rights of employees to information and consultation on their future. we are pleased to see your determination to achieve this in the context of the portuguese presidency. however, contrary to what the previous speaker has just said, the greens believe that such rights should be extended to all businesses which are clearly not craft enterprises and we are proposing a threshold of 20 employees. the commission's proposal to introduce a threshold of 50 employees would create serious distortions of competition affecting only 3% of european companies. we'll have to go further one day. in several european countries, it is the participation of workers that is the most important social issue. participation in decisions, also participation in results. the european council did not want to follow parliament's opinion on this point. today, however, pensioners are increasingly participating in the capital, the boards of directors and the dividends of the company through pension funds. it would be paradoxical and even fraught with the threat of a generational war if active employees were excluded from such participation.
- mr president, madam commissioner, in our debate on the michelin case on 27 october last, i recalled that parliament had amended the directive on information and consultation of workers and that we were still waiting for the commission to take up these amendments. the two main amendments - i will remind you of them - were on two points: firstly, the committee on employment and social affairs wanted the directive to apply to companies with 20 or more employees, and parliament with 50 or more employees, whereas the commission proposes 100 or more employees, if i am not mistaken. the second major amendment also stated that any withholding of information by management from employee representatives should be punishable, not just withholding of information which management considers important (a concept which is far too vague). what does the commission say today on these two points? nothing new, and we shall talk about it again in the year 2000. i think that this is not possible, madam commissioner. this wait-and-see attitude completely turns its back on the expectations of our societies. we must not only heed the signal given to us during the last elections and adopt these two amendments, but i had put forward additional proposals which i now feel are necessary. i had proposed the introduction of a six-month grace period on any restructuring plan to allow for independent trade union expertise, and i had also proposed that if the company received public aid but did not comply with the established rules, it must repay the aid received. it seems to me that you should therefore table an amended draft directive reflecting these advances, this expectation, and play your role of driving the council forward rather than preemptively aligning yourselves on the lowest common denominator of our respective governments. i also expect, madam commissioner, that mr prodi will include these references in the work plan he will present to us.
- mr president, i too agree with what has just been said and i would have very much liked to have been here yesterday at the beginning of the sitting, because as a person from a region in the south of france which is currently traumatised, i would have really liked to have been able to hear the words spoken by the president. beyond these few words, i would simply like, as a witness who is unfortunately very concerned, to ask that, in addition to the message of sympathy - and it is true that the families of the victims will appreciate this - we in the european parliament could initiate a solidarity procedure by means of aid which could be allocated to this hard-hit region of the far south, in favour of the families first and foremost and those who have lost everything, but also in respect of the economic tool which is being destroyed. there are enormous needs at the moment and i would like my colleagues in the european parliament to join in this momentum of solidarity which is being established. i have here - and i will pass it on to you - a special document from the local daily newspaper which, through its images, shows the extent of what has happened, with more than 30 victims and many still missing. i think it's one of the most important disasters in our country in terms of flooding. i hope that this wish will be followed by the european parliament and i thank you for it. (applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, dear mrs haug, first of all i would like to thank you. looking at your report has been a political as well as an intellectual pleasure. i certainly think that the report describes what is currently considered politically feasible, but i think that in view of the challenges ahead, we have a responsibility to consider fundamental reform which is not measured by what is politically feasible but by what is politically necessary. when we want to change a system, we have to be clear about the benefits of the current system, and i think these are the four fundamental points. firstly, the framework of the current eu own resources system is very rigid. the revenue is limited, in partial regression, and additional expenditure can only be financed if other expenditure is eliminated. in the meantime, however, european integration has reached such a level that we are simply running up against the limits of the framework. this means that this framework can no longer cover the expenditure necessary for enlargement of the union, the respect of human rights in the world and the creation of a context capable of countering the rise in unemployment. secondly, if we are to discuss reform in this parliament, we must finally be able to give a detailed opinion on all this. in this respect, the european parliament's budgetary rights are quite inadequate. thirdly, the existing structures for budgetary decisions make any deep reform extremely difficult. it is quite natural that member states should remain below the ceiling when they are being urged at national level to be budgetary strict and to respect the stability criteria. fourthly, while the discussion of fair distribution is justified, it is also absurd. absurd because the member states' interpretation of the concept of equity means that, in the end, they want to get back what they pay into the budget of the european union. if that is the case, i think we could really do without the european union. there can be no question of fairness in the european union unless the original objectives of economic development, prosperity and the reduction of development disparities are the founding criteria of this fairness. finally, every budget represents the financial implementation of political strategies. the task which the european union has set itself for the years ahead is considerable. if at the same time we try to cut expenditure systematically, we simply cannot meet the political needs. add to this cuts, corrections and other similar measures, and any company that does so will be bankrupt. this means that we must now look at the possibilities for improvement on the revenue side. europe needs a financing system that is independent of gnp resources and the particular interests of the member states. in short, we need our own tax revenue. the first report published in march mentioned a whole series of positive measures in this respect: an ecological tax, a co2 tax, a levy on the profits of short-term speculation, the use of the ecb's profits. this is the way we must go so that the european parliament and the european union will still have sufficient own resources in the future.
mr president, the haug report, which has been submitted to this house, raises a highly political problem, namely the question of financing the union from its own resources. in other times, french leaders have not hesitated to practice the empty chair policy on such an issue. unfortunately, our country is now the big loser at the berlin summit, where the fifteen agreed to revise the union's resources system. in berlin we did indeed accept the principle that some rich countries, those in the north of the union, were paying too much, which is why the financing quotas of the member states have been re-weighted, with the result that france will have an increased share, up to several billion francs. it is also clear that the limitation of the contribution of certain member states to the financing of the united kingdom rebate will have the effect of increasing the contribution of the others. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are opposed to the haug report, which proposes to reduce gradually the dependence of the system on contributions from the member states and eventually to achieve financial autonomy. financial autonomy, fiscal autonomy, are we not, without admitting it, moving towards the creation of a european tax? in any case, this financial autonomy always follows the same logic, which we obviously condemn. more and more integration, more and more federalism in this europe, always at the expense of the nation states, taking away what is left of their sovereignty, their fiscal sovereignty. we cannot therefore accept that and we shall vote against this report.
- mr president, the proposal is to increase the european union's own resources and to allocate them differently between the member states. the real problem of distribution is not between states, or between states and the european union, but between social categories. of course, the draft resolution hypocritically states that this need not lead to an increase in the burden on the european citizen. but it seems clear that this is a wishful thinking and that future european taxes will be added to the others. i am all the more opposed to any idea of increasing taxes, since the burden of taxation, both national and european, falls mainly on the lower classes. in all of europe, indirect taxes are the main source of taxation, but they are particularly unfair because they are paid at the same rate by the poorest and the richest. the lowest paid employees and even the unemployed or homeless, by paying vat on their food, contribute to the financing of the european institutions, which have not taken a single measure in their favour. the fundamental raison d'être of the european union is to favour large enterprises by removing the obstacles they face, unifying their market in europe and supporting them in the world market. so if we have to pay more for the european institutions, for their services, let it be these big companies that pay, let us tax their profits and the shareholders' dividends and make them pay.
mr president, a system of own resources raises four questions: who should pay, on what basis should we pay, what should we pay and who should decide to charge? neither the commission nor parliament has the power to answer these four questions. we are in this case the imaginary actors of a play written by others. mrs haug, and her report has the great merit of doing so, raises a number of problems and is going in the right direction. who 's paying ? the states, or the individuals and economic agents? the current trend is towards the states and not towards individuals and economic agents. this is a dangerous trend towards intergovernmentalisation, towards the articulation of our resource system. what are the grounds for paying? proportionality, progressivity, what is that? we can hesitate. what we are seeing today is that if there is a step in the right direction towards proportionality, we are inventing a new system which is to base the contribution on the expenditure. i pay, therefore i receive; i receive, therefore i pay; i'll give you grants, provided you pay them. this is absurd ! we're in the middle of surrealism. what do we have to pay ? does anyone think we can go on for a long time with such a limited rate of borrowing, while the european union is taking on more and more new responsibilities linked to the extension of monetary union, the enlargement of the union, the taking into account of foreign and security policy responsibilities? we are in the throes of schizophrenia on this point. who's to say who's gonna pay? for now, it's the states and the states alone. it is absolutely necessary to reform this mechanism. it is imperative, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of own resources should be at the heart of the next intergovernmental conference.
- mr president, madam commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, following the berlin agreement, the interinstitutional agreement, it was necessary to revise the european union's own resources system in order to correctly weight the quotas of each member state. the jutta haug report recalls the objective of this revision. it has four objectives: to simplify the system, to make it more transparent and thus more understandable, to strengthen the financial autonomy of the european union and to reduce the imbalances between the budgetary contributions of the member states. the proposed rebalancing of the four types of resources, and especially the reduction in the vat share to the benefit of the part linked to each country's gnp, is particularly interesting, because it is much more equitable. it better represents the real contributory capacities of each citizen. we are holding on to that and we must continue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first, it is essential that the imbalances in current budgetary contributions due to returns which may be historically explained be gradually, progressively but stubbornly dismantled and that the contributions of each country be brought back to what they should be objectively, accounting-wise. this simplification is essential for the fairness of the system and the transparency of management, both imperatives for securing the future of europe. especially on the eve of enlargement, the current practices of discounts or rebates are no longer justified and must therefore be abandoned. the second point i would like to draw your attention to seems to me extremely strange. this is the request made by the member states to withhold management and collection costs, which could rise from 10 to 25%. what justification is there for this usurious increase ? the strengthening of control and monitoring missions for food safety; these activities are normal for states. it is therefore essential to maintain the basic rate of 10%, which will largely cover the costs of this function. on behalf of parliament, i expect the commission to take up the wishes mentioned above, as they are essential to our political objectives of clarity, transparency and fairness.
- mr president, energy is at the heart of all economic and social activity. all citizens are concerned with the supply, transport and distribution of energy. much remains to be done to ensure that the right to energy is a reality everywhere, in the poorest countries as well as in the industrialized countries, where all categories of the population do not have equal access to it: needs are therefore not met and energy issues become crucial. the european union's energy dependence remains high. stabilisation of co2 emissions and diversification of energy sources have not yet been achieved. the development of an energy policy that respects the environment therefore requires determined efforts. the fifth un conference on climate change has just confirmed the differences between those who support voluntary policies and those who are still trying to circumvent the commitments made in kyoto. the european union has committed itself to ratifying the kyoto protocol by 2002 and is advocating differentiated measures for developing and industrialized countries. these co2 emissions decreased by 19% in 1997. i believe that it can thus help to prevent the us's exclusively commercial liberal approach from prevailing, which goes so far as to call into question the commitments made in kyoto. however, european efforts are not sufficient and the response to all these challenges is not guaranteed. there is therefore cause for concern that the commission and the council continue to regard the opening up of the energy market to free competition as a necessary step. as the chichester report points out, there is a contradiction between liberalisation and the reduction of co2 emissions. but this is not the only contradiction. the market pressure is also exerted on public service missions: the most effective poles of resistance to unbridled free competition, public enterprises, are threatened. in addition, competition limits the ability of states to intervene in energy choices and to guarantee equal access for users. energy is not a commodity like any other and must be treated in a specific way. it requires more cooperation, coordination of national policies, not an integrated european policy. finally, the rapporteur is rightly surprised that the commission is abandoning nuclear energy altogether, when nuclear energy is helping to reduce co2 emissions, even though this energy should be safer and more environmentally friendly. these are all issues which deserve a broad, public debate, which will enable everyone to take control of the challenges and choices of energy policy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's communication on the integration of the environmental dimension into energy policy, even though, like many others, i regret the serious delays in this area in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. however, once this apparently very consensual requirement has been set, the problem of the modalities of implementation remains to be resolved and the conciliation of the proposed policies is far from easy. it is a source of disagreement which is relevant to all the challenges facing the european union. the main challenges, for me, as for others, of course, are the following. firstly, there is the question of the security of our supplies and the european union's energy dependence, which is set to increase and which - we are told - is likely to reach 70% by 2020, with all the political risks that this entails. then there is the commitment made in kyoto to reduce co2 emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels. in the face of these two challenges, some advocate the nuclear solution altogether, others advocate the outright abandonment of nuclear energy. i personally do not believe that these two extremes will be the solution to environmental protection. i would rather favour a balanced development of energy sources, with the maintenance of nuclear power and especially the development of renewable energies. the european union has set itself the objective of increasing the share of the latter from 6% to 12% by 2010, but we must provide the financial means for this and, today, we are far from achieving that if we judge from the latest discussions in the conciliation committee. another major challenge is the contradiction - which seems to me particularly acute - between the liberalization of energy networks, which is certainly conducive to lower prices but also leads to waste, and the promotion of rational and economical use of energy. we must be aware, liberal members, that the market does not regulate everything and that ultraliberalism has perverse effects. to meet these challenges and overcome these contradictions, therefore, we need very quickly to consult at all levels, within the states and with the candidate countries, to associate the candidate countries with the european union and to work in the context of the fifth framework programme. our rapporteur has done an excellent job and has made excellent proposals. i would like to end by congratulating him on this.
in writing. - i abstain on mrs smet's report on the limitation of the working time of doctors in training, even though it is a slight improvement on the present situation. i find it shocking that a transitional period is provided for, even if it is shorter than the one proposed by the commission. i see no objection to the immediate application of the measure. i am even more shocked by the fact that road transport is excluded from the scope of the directive on the limitation of working time and by the reservations expressed on this issue with regard to off-shore workers.
in writing. - this proposal to amend directive 88/77/eec is part of the auto-oil programme adopted by the european commission in 1996. in this context, our parliament has already had the opportunity to approve the proposals for amending several directives aimed at technological improvement of engines and fuel quality. i hope that the strategy behind the auto-oil programme is not lost sight of: the aim is to reduce air pollution from vehicle emissions. at the second reading stage, it is important that the european parliament clearly distinguishes between the elements it considers to be priorities and the others. some may think that this is a matter of course. however, the second reading of a text under the codecision procedure is too often an opportunity to engage in a bidding war with the council. this temptation must be avoided at all costs for several reasons. first, the european parliament risks losing sight of the general objective of the proposal submitted to it. then he weakens the position by making it less legible. finally, it loses credibility with the population and the circles directly concerned. the rapporteur explains in his explanatory statement that the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading have made a major contribution to improving the commission's original proposal. the council adopted parliament's important amendments in its common position. i entirely share that view. however, the rapporteur went out on a limb and by supporting 47 amendments he risked delaying the entry into force of the best provisions of the text. the council's common position will make it possible to make real progress on pollution from heavy goods vehicles. i was not in favour of adopting the amendments put to the vote in this house, which would have delayed the entry into force of this text and thus the implementation of investments and industrial strategies. the benefits of this directive for the environment will be all the greater the sooner it comes into force.
- mr president, the chichester report will certainly have important repercussions on european energy policy. the edd group voted for it because we are committed to the principle of subsidiarity. energy remains a strategic and sensitive area for states. it is essential to let them choose and define policy in this area, since europe and especially the commission have only a supporting role to play and not a censoring one. this report, which is very realistic, shows an undeniable openness of mind. it does not condemn or close any doors, especially the nuclear one. it identifies the different energy sources which are perceived as complementary and not as substitutes for the energies currently used. energy realism requires it. all leads must be explored, none must be ignored or sacrificed. the diversity of sources must be emphasized. finally, the greatest possible transparency must be ensured, while respecting the strategic safety rules. through serious and thorough studies and evaluations, each individual will be able to assess the relevance of a particular choice, which will make it possible to make any corrections in our management that are necessary as a result of the knowledge evaluation. we want energy and the environment to coexist intelligently, but we must avoid sacrificing energy on the altar of the environment. the consequences would be catastrophic for the member states.
- mr president, as regards mrs gebhardt's report, i have no doubt of the good intentions of our rapporteurs and i share their concern to strengthen legal security for persons in matrimonial matters which are as delicate as they are painful for the parties concerned. but since our aim is to make improvements, i would draw your attention to the amendment in the tenth recital which seems to me problematic. is it appropriate to entrust the court of justice with the task of defining the concept of parental responsibility, when the proposal for a regulation provided for reference to the internal law of the member state concerned? will it be easy for the court of justice to define the concept of parental responsibility independently of the existence of common matrimonial law, which is neither desired nor contemplated today? i am afraid that with this amendment the application of this text, which is intended to increase legal certainty, will create a harmful ambiguity. moreover, this new jurisdiction conferred on the court of justice would undoubtedly add to the already overwhelming volume of litigation. the rapporteur himself notes the very marked differences in the law of persons between the member states, which explains the strong reservations expressed in the committee on legal affairs. i suggest that the rapporteurs should be satisfied with the use of a community legal instrument without seeking to harmonize the concepts of law as to substance. if these amendments were to be adopted, i would find it difficult to support this proposal.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to dampen - without a bad play on words - the enthusiasm of this house for the european judicial area. the solutions we have to find must serve two purposes. first, let each complainant find his judge, otherwise it would be a denial of justice. let him find justice and let the sentence be carried out. it's the legal security requirement. secondly, however, it is necessary to ensure that the diversity of the laws of the member states is respected, which is nothing but the legal translation of respect for their cultural or national diversity. we must therefore move away from the unification of legislation, which is too often pursued here under the pretext of harmonization. the solution is obviously to unify exclusively the rules of private international law, to the exclusion of the unification of the substantive rules. unification of the rules of private international law, i.e. the rules of conflict of jurisdiction and the rules of conflict of laws. it is necessary to know clearly which law the court will apply, since a court with territorial jurisdiction does not necessarily apply its national law and in many circumstances it is right that this should be the case. as for the development of enforcement procedures - the so-called exequatur of foreign judgments - its development is undoubtedly useful in civil matters, such as divorce or custody, as are some aspects of mutual legal assistance, but we must be careful not to go too far in this direction. we must not allow a political correctness to rule europe under the pretext of mutual legal assistance. i will not mention the disgraceful handover of a 90-year-old man from switzerland to france, since this is the case in a country which is not a member of the european union, but i will simply mention the increasingly repressive legislation which claims to dictate the political and historical discourse and which i do not wish to see extended from one european state to another.
- the european construction has ignored the rights of individuals for too long, and the europe of citizens, of which we are the expression, must now take account, as we said last night on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the international convention, of the concrete concerns of families and the well-being of children. we all remember a number of cases, such as the lancelin-thiemann case which last year soured the debate between germany and france over the tragedy of the couple's children. the gebhardt report rightly points out that the increasing freedom of movement within the european union is and will continue to lead to an increase in the number of binational marriages, which is why it is worth examining this issue. today, european law has failed to draw the consequences of this development, plunging couples, and especially children, into a very complicated situation. the regulation which is before us today for our opinion is therefore particularly welcome, as it has undeniable advantages over the so-called brussels ii convention, which was signed in 1998 but has not yet been ratified. if adopted unanimously in the council, this regulation could enter into force very soon and would be applied immediately and harmoniously in the european union, thus avoiding long conflicts of competence, which would be detrimental to all. i would add that this proposal for a regulation expressly concerns judicial decisions on parental responsibility for joint children, which is in line with the requests made on many occasions by our parliament. but like other colleagues, i am concerned about two amendments: amendment no 2 and amendment no 5, which will give the court of justice a number of responsibilities in matters of parental responsibility. i am afraid that this is not within its competence and, on the other hand, that it would burden the case before this court. it seems to me that we should stick to the commission's text. if that is the case, i shall support mrs gebhardt's report, which i hope will be adopted by a large majority in parliament. if there were only one reason to be invoked, it would be the interests of the children and i doubt that if our parliament were to adopt these two amendments, it would be in the interests of the children, who expect a lot from the rapid implementation of a regulation recognising their simple right not to have to suffer the choice of their parents to live in different european countries. of course, there will still be important problems, including the issue of the disparity of rights applicable to divorce and its consequences, but this regulation is only a first step and i congratulate the rapporteur on this initiative.
- mr president, i should like to thank commissioner verheugen for his very comprehensive report on the difficulties he has encountered in this area which is essential for the future of europe. listening to him, listening to my colleagues throughout this debate, i was reminded of the recent election campaign and the answers we were then given to our constituents on the need to build and complete europe. it is obvious that this is one of the areas, namely the threat posed by the existence of so many nuclear power stations, but also by all the weapons accumulated on the territory of the former soviet union, where no member state can claim to act alone for the security of the entire continent. only europe, and, commissioner, i thank you for your understanding, only a united europe can go to those countries which are asking to join the european community, and also to all those which have nuclear installations which do not comply with our safety standards, and help them to solve the problem in accordance with their own economic needs. i therefore thank commissioner verheugen for having reminded us that it is only by the contribution of each of the member states to the provision of the necessary funds that we will achieve this common objective, which has been recalled by all of us.
commission - as i have said many times, including in the committee chaired by mrs jackson, the dbes is not negotiable. this was not a negotiable issue and in no way was the regime compromised in the discussions we have had in recent weeks. i believe that this is a day to mark with a white stone for the rule of law, for the commission and i would also say for all the institutions of the european union, including parliament. the commission has today decided to open an infringement procedure rather than refrain from prosecuting. in this context, i find it difficult to understand how this can be considered a sad day for parliament or the rule of law. as i have said, it was decided to start this procedure today and it will continue unless the discussions in progress produce results in the coming days. we have almost got to the end of these problems in the last few days - i expected a solution yesterday and if it had not been, certainly today. i was disappointed but i believe we could finally resolve this problem in the next few days. i would also like to remind members of this house that it is better that problems of this nature are resolved amicably, as i have said on many occasions. it is necessary to take a case to court when the parties cannot reach an agreement. in this case, it seems to me that if these two states can solve this problem through discussion, that would be by far the best way forward and it would produce results much more quickly. i imagine that the people that mrs jackson represents in the united kingdom would like this problem to be resolved quickly and not in two years' time by a judgment of the court. that is why i have adopted and will continue to adopt this particular line of action, despite the decision taken today to open infringement proceedings.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food safety standards are observed in the member states. this has been a question of considerable importance to me. the reason for this is also that the commission, myself and my departments in particular, are seeking to establish an appropriate structure for a food safety authority. one of the most important issues to be considered in the examination of such a structure will be the competence it will be given and the relationship it will have with any other food safety agency established at member state level. it is quite clear that a controversy between these two types of agencies, such as we have seen in recent weeks, cannot be tolerated if we hope to achieve a unified and harmonized market. the confidence in such a food safety authority at the level of the commission should be such that the member states and the authorities and scientists of those member states contribute fully to the agency but also trust it so that the opinions it issues are fully and promptly accepted. as regards the situation in germany, on which you asked me a question, i have been able to conclude, as i have said, from discussions with the responsible minister, that the german federal government wishes to move towards the lifting of the ban. it also appears that the discussions during the french litigation will dispel any apprehensions which might still be felt in germany. i was in constant communication with the german authorities. they have contributed to the discussions which have taken place in the last few weeks as observers and i am sure they have understood the substance of the matter. i therefore have high hopes that the german federal government will now take appropriate action to lift the ban. as regards the last part of your question, mrs roth-behrendt, which concerns testing, i intend to have something in place by the end of the year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we have initiated a procedure, we have taken the decision to take the first step by initiating the procedure. i do not know what you mean by 'being inflexible' but it seems to me that this procedure is the only measure i have to ensure that a country complies with community legislation, apart from negotiations. i have done so with considerable success over the past six weeks and i hope to continue negotiating in the coming days as the institutional procedure proceeds. i am convinced, as i said in parliament the last time i was here, that keeping a cool head and a strong determination is more effective than other approaches. this is the approach i recommend, which i have taken, which i believe will produce results and which i intend to stick to.
- commissioner, of course i am still french and i am still in favour of the precautionary principle. i have already had the opportunity to ask you a number of questions to which i have not yet received an answer, particularly on the different assessment of scientists. therefore, today, as a member of the european parliament, i cannot appreciate the difference between your experts and the french experts. professor dormont, i believe, is internationally recognized for his work on the prion. it is not a personality who works for this or that lobby or against this or that lobby. it simply applies what consumers, voters and the french people have asked it to do, namely, in the name of food safety, the precautionary principle. so he's doing his job. the french government, which has set up this food safety agency, is indeed following the demands of the french people. we have therefore no response to this different assessment and i would like to hear from you.
- ladies and gentlemen, a number of members did not hear me yesterday deploring the terrible floods which have occurred in the south-western departments of france. i did, in fact, say how much this tragedy affects us, and i will add that we will of course ask the commission to take appropriate measures both to help the victims of these disasters and to supplement the arrangements put in place by the government concerned. i also mentioned the terrible earthquake in turkey. so i wanted to make that announcement again in front of you.
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations? mr. baron crespo wishes to speak.
- yes, absolutely, we will greet him later. (applause) you see, mr solana, what a welcome! are there any comments on the minutes?
- very well, mr. nogueira román, we will rectify this.
- mr. korakas, your speech had nothing to do with the minutes. (the minutes were approved) documents received - transfers of appropriations: see minutes.
- we are waiting for the moment to be sure that the report exists in all language versions. it is only when we have that assurance and are able to debate the report that the deadline for tabling amendments will be set.
- yes, of course.
- the next item is the statement by mr solana on the development of the common foreign and security policy. we are particularly pleased, mr solana, to welcome you to this house for the first time. (applause) we are very much looking forward to working very closely with you and it is with great pleasure that i give you the floor right away.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. - (es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to appear before the house of this parliament in my new capacity as secretary-general of the council and high representative of the union for the common foreign and security policy. it is not the first time that i have come before you - i have done so many times while performing other duties - but it is the first time that i have come in my new duties. i recently had the opportunity to appear before the foreign affairs committee of this parliament to deal with certain priority issues. i recognize, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, that this new function will require me to deal with interesting, important problems, not only for certain committees but also for this house. that is why this opportunity to address parliament is of particular importance to me. i am determined and committed to working closely with all of you and keeping you informed on any political issues that may interest you. i would therefore like to reiterate, madam president, my firm intention to appear before this house as many times as necessary. my mandate as high representative for the common foreign and security policy is essentially to cooperate with the member states and the presidency and to help them develop a common foreign and security policy. that will be my first priority. i will try and - and i hope i succeed - to maintain particularly close cooperation with the commission, with president prodi and with chris patten, who is also here with us this morning. we have all three committed ourselves to working together in an efficient way. i can count on the support of the member states and i am sure i can count on your support too. the citizens expect us to respond quickly and effectively in crisis situations and rightly expect their concerns to be taken into account. you must play a fundamental role in expressing these views and in contributing to the development of a common foreign and security policy that is more effective, more coherent, closer to the concerns of citizens and reflects the values and principles that have shaped our european identity. madam president, i should like to focus this morning on two fundamental questions. first, i would like to tell parliament about some of the main subjects i have been dealing with since i took up my new duties, which is to say for almost a month. secondly, i would like to share with you my main priorities: the development of a security and defence policy. i will briefly assess the progress made in the last few days and review our prospects for the future. one of my first actions after my appointment was to attend the summit with russia on 22 october last. i had the opportunity to brief the committee on foreign affairs on the most important points we discussed, in particular chechnya, which i am sure is a matter of concern to many of you. as you know, the council of ministers last monday, two days ago, condemned the use of disproportionate and indiscriminate force in chechnya, which has caused great suffering among the civilian population and unfortunately forced tens of thousands of people to move to other parts of the country. the council called on the russian government to respect its obligation under international humanitarian law to avoid civilian casualties and to keep the border between chechnya and ingushetia open. we must continue to exert the strongest possible political pressure on the russian authorities. they must find a negotiated solution, an agreement negotiated through dialogue, because, of course, there is no military solution to the crisis in chechnya. the only solution must be political. all these concerns - which i am sure you share - i have conveyed to prime minister putin on two or three occasions when i was able to speak to him and to foreign minister ivanov, the last time on sunday evening. madam president, south-east europe is another region which i consider particularly important. on 28 and 29 october i visited kosovo with commissioner chris patten, which enabled us to meet all the political leaders of the two communities, the representatives of the un mission in kosovo and the international security force for kosovo, kfor. we stressed the union's commitment to the reconstruction of kosovo and the creation of a democratic and multiethnic kosovo. we asked local political leaders to support this process with strong leadership and stressed the importance of all moderate leaders speaking out clearly and taking responsibility if the reconciliation process is to have any chance of success. as you know, at yesterday's council i received a mandate from the member states to assess the situation of the democratic opposition in serbia and, as from tomorrow, at the osce summit in istanbul, i will begin to work actively on this problem, holding the meetings that may prove necessary. as for the balkans, i will of course pay particular attention to the elements of the stability pact. we are working together with president prodi, commissioner patten and bodo hombach to improve the coherence and effectiveness of our action in the region. we shall have the opportunity to develop these points more carefully in the coming sessions. madam president, i would also like to mention another priority of the union: the middle east peace process. at the beginning of november i attended the commemoration of the assassination of prime minister rabin in oslo and had the opportunity to speak with prime minister barak and president arafat. there is now a clear compromise between the two sides to negotiate seriously towards the comprehensive agreement which should be concluded by february at the latest, i.e. soon. i have made it clear that the union is of course prepared to provide the technical assistance and know-how needed to achieve this objective. in any event, i have asked the union's special envoy, mr miguel angel moratinos, to maintain and continue close contacts with the negotiating teams and to keep us informed of the progress of the talks. i will meet again with prime minister barak tomorrow in the framework of the osce summit. madam president, since taking up this post, i have also participated with the presidency of the council and commissioner patten in several meetings of the troika. i would like to return to the one held in algiers a few weeks ago, the first one in many years. we had the opportunity to assess the situation in the bilateral talks and an agreement was reached to continue to move forward the negotiations on the association agreement. our request concerning human rights issues received an answer which i would describe as encouraging and it was confirmed that ngos active in the field of human rights have been invited to visit algeria. an appeal was also made to take advantage of the present moment to substantially improve relations between all the maghreb countries. as you know, algeria is also in an important position at the moment. she is currently in charge of the oau presidency. it will therefore have to play a decisive role in the preparations for the summit between the european union and africa, which will take place in egypt in april. in my view, this meeting is of great importance as it will provide an opportunity to strengthen relations between europe and africa. africa is currently, it is assumed, a forgotten continent and europe cannot ignore it. madam president, in conclusion i should like to say very briefly that during the last four weeks i have had other very enriching meetings: with the president of colombia, who was also received in this parliament in plenary session, with the president of latvia, with the foreign minister of cyprus, to try to find out how to stimulate the meetings which will most certainly begin on 3 december in new york. this afternoon i am going to istanbul to attend the summit of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. i have already touched on the problem of chechnya, which unfortunately is likely to be the protagonist of the summit which starts tomorrow. i can tell you that we will continue to put pressure on the russian authorities to reduce the intensity of the conflict and to work towards a peaceful solution. we will do everything in our power to ensure that they commit themselves to all their obligations under the osce treaty and the treaty on conventional armies in europe, the adaptation of which will probably be approved at the istanbul summit. the adoption of the charter for security in europe will undoubtedly, if ratified, be an element that will strengthen the authority of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe and will undoubtedly be a valuable addition to the development of the union's security policy. madam president, there are many other subjects which i would like to discuss with my colleagues, but let me be brief and address the problem of security and defence. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call the general affairs council on monday historic. for the first time, the general affairs council met in the presence of the union's defence ministers and held a debate - which i consider important - on the formulation of a european security and defence policy. the aim was to prepare the conclusions to be adopted at the helsinki european council under the finnish presidency. ladies and gentlemen, it has been clear for some time that if europe is to occupy its rightful place on the world stage, it must have a european security and defence policy and a common foreign and security policy. the crisis in bosnia and, subsequently, the crisis in kosovo have shown that we need much more than declarations of intent. ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to act. and that certainly requires a sufficient military force to do so. in my view, one of the important tasks of the helsinki summit will be to decide what this military force should be, how it should be developed and how the union should decide on its use. ladies and gentlemen, we have made a great deal of progress in the preparatory work in berlin, saint malo, washington and cologne. these are undoubtedly important milestones in these steps. cologne was not a final destination but a starting point and i am convinced that helsinki will be a new, very important step in this process. we have gradually moved closer to a goal which i believe is of great importance. over time, the debate on european defence has become less abstract and more specific, more concrete. the time is fast approaching for us to take a decisive step forward and translate our commitments into concrete action. on monday, at the general affairs council, ministers made it clear that they had the political will to decide in helsinki what europe's collective military force should be in the petersberg missions. ladies and gentlemen, in view of the developments in the debate, i hope that the european council will set a specific, clear and concrete objective. it is very likely that this will be a challenge that will force member states to consider priorities carefully and to make some difficult or at least difficult decisions on the allocation of resources. a review of priorities, pooling of resources and multinational allocation of tasks will certainly be necessary. i think, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate on monday also showed that the ministers want the union to have the appropriate means to assess crises and to have equally adequate and clear procedures to take decisions if action is needed. i think that is a very important element. we must also take account, madam president, of the contributions and interests of the allied countries which are not members of the union. this will mean that we have arrangements for them to express their views when we assess a crisis situation and adequate mechanisms for them to also participate fully in operational decisions if we invite them to join us. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, all these measures must also be taken - and it is important to stress this - for reasons of credibility. first, to be credible in the face of our own public opinions. we cannot be credible if we simply improve the institutional and bureaucratic mechanisms. if we want our citizens and public opinion to support a european security policy, we must convince them of our willingness and ability to provide ourselves with the appropriate means. secondly, to be credible to our transatlantic partners and nato allies who are not members of the union. if we want to be taken seriously, we have to prove it. this means that we must strengthen our military forces. if we are serious, and we are, our allies will be more willing to provide us with their resources. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, to be credible at international level. we must prove our capacity to respond in times of crisis, perhaps not when our survival is at stake, but when something else equally important is at stake, our moral stature, our moral greatness as europeans. i believe that the defence of our values, our way of life, our freedoms and our well-being will be more effectively ensured jointly than by each of our countries in isolation. finally, ladies and gentlemen, to be honest with ourselves. we will not be able to achieve this successfully unless we commit ourselves clearly, energetically and decisively to this goal. however, i would like to stress that security is not limited to military aspects. it's obvious. the cologne european council asked the council to examine all aspects of security with a view to strengthening and coordinating all non-military instruments to respond to crisis situations. in this respect, the finnish presidency has done an extraordinary job, which will be reflected in a report to the helsinki european council on non-military instruments for crisis management. i think it is very important to continue along this path. we need to establish mechanisms that cover the full range, the full spectrum of crisis management instruments, from the strictly humanitarian and civilian ones to the other extreme, more related to the military aspects. ladies and gentlemen, in this spectrum, this range, we must make an effort to strengthen the instruments of protection of citizens and of law enforcement, namely, the police instruments, whose urgent need has been brought to light during the last crises. you will recall that both in bosnia and in kosovo at the present time the problem of international policing remains crucial, it finds no solution and it persists. and i am well aware that this parliament is particularly sensitive to this problem. ladies and gentlemen, i'm almost finished. if we take these steps and solve these problems properly, i am convinced that we will make a significant contribution to the development of our europe, to the development of our continent. we will no doubt be able to strengthen our security and ensure better cooperation with our partners and allies. madam president, i would like to conclude by reiterating my firm intention to work closely with this parliament in all areas. the main task and priority of the post to which i have been appointed is to contribute to the development of a more effective, coherent and active common foreign and security policy. this is the only way to ensure that our union has the influence it deserves in all corners of the world. the only way to defend our common values and interests. however, ladies and gentlemen, this will only be possible through close cooperation between all the institutions. the support of this parliament will be essential. madam president, i hope that my presence here this morning will be only the beginning of an effective, constructive dialogue, the results of which will be increasingly beneficial for the citizens of the union and the rest of the world. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, mr solana, high representative for the common foreign and security policy. i thank you again for your presence in this capacity - since you have already been here in the past - and also for your speech and the willingness, mr solana, which you have expressed and demonstrated, to cooperate very closely with our parliament.
- madam president, mr high representative, i have opposed the action of the secretary-general of nato. i welcome the entry into office of mr pesc. in your new responsibilities, you and my group will have an interlocutor who is demanding, and if necessary, severely critical, but who is deeply convinced that the european union must be much more present, more active and more determined on the international scene. if we go to africa, the mediterranean, latin america or asia, we can see the strength of the expectation of a great ally, capable and determined to help them to get out of the difficult confrontation with the overpowered and arrogant america. what wonderful challenges you could be tackling on behalf of the fifteen. to establish yourself as a full-fledged actor in the middle east to help bring about a just and lasting peace now possible; to relaunch the lomé negotiations on a new basis, taking account of the concerns of our 71 partners in the south, in order to save the spirit of this convention, which is unique in the world; to make a different voice heard in the international financial institutions, for example in favour of the cancellation of the debts of countries which are currently blocked in their development by this infernal mechanism; launch a genuine international crusade for disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament, at a time of immense danger of further proliferation; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. finally, i would ask you, mr high representative, to make a courageous critical assessment of the war in the balkans. in kosovo we are facing a serious political failure: nationalism is followed by another nationalism, ethnic cleansing by another ethnic cleansing, this time in the presence of the union, the un and nato. in the rest of yugoslavia, an iraqi-style scenario is unfolding. the legitimately whipped power is firmly in place, while the illegitimately sanctioned population suffers a morally unacceptable and politically dangerous martyrdom. as for the region, it is anything but stabilized. these realities must surely make you wonder. so do not take as the only lesson from this terrible experience the requirement to be able to deploy more troops, to increase our military spending and to advance by forced march towards a europe of defence, and moreover, within the framework of nato. i am not trying to hide the military dimension of security, but where the main problem is that, in my view, this strategy continues to be obsessed with the military, to the detriment of a large pan-european policy of conflict prevention that is commensurate with the post-cold war tensions and fractures on our continent. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. but who knows ? who said anything about that ? the council representative did not even consider it appropriate to call for a debate in the european parliament before this conference. revitalising the osce, rebuilding it and opening its debates to european civil society is another great objective, which in my view is inseparable from the prospect of enlargement of the union. that is the constructive message i wanted to send you today on behalf of my group.
- you referred, mr high representative, in particular to your recent meetings in pristina and recalled some appropriate generalities on the future balkan stability pact and the future multiethnic and democratic kosovo. i would have liked you, mr solana, to be more explicit on the substance of this crucial question and to tell us how, under the cfsp, you intend to help to correct, as far as it is still possible, the most disastrous consequences for our continent of the actions which you, if not ordered, at least covered in yugoslavia as secretary-general of nato and which we have before us today. how do you intend to help the civilian population of a european country whose infrastructure we have destroyed to overcome the hardships of a winter that is coming up that will be terrible for them? how do you intend, if there is still time, to help to prevent the complete exodus of the serbs from kosovo, or to facilitate their return? it would be unjust to turn the mills of multiethnic kosovo into prayer wheels if we let it become in fact monoethnic. how do you intend to help avoid the complete dismemberment of the yugoslav federation, as pressure for kosovo's independence is mounting following nato's intervention? in short, mr high representative, how do you intend to ensure that the cfsp contributes to ensuring that the real consequences of nato's intervention are not the exact opposite of the objectives it set itself, namely a dismembered and ruined yugoslavia, still led by mr milosevic, and an extremist, mono-ethnic and independent kosovo? (applause) i would like to thank
- mr. alavanos, i'll answer you right away. as mr solana said earlier, he has to go to the osce summit. however, i can assure you that at question time in the council, mr sasi will be present and i can guarantee that he has the authority to do so.
- madam president, the new political and military system which mr solana calls for is only a watered-down version of the european defence community which france rejected in 1954 in an otherwise more threatening international context. with the collapse of the soviet union and the more widespread but more formidable danger now coming from the south, rivalries between the major western powers have intensified. germany, much like france in the 1960s, hopes to find in political europe not only the opportunity for a renewed credibility but also the hidden means of a power policy. the real issue behind the europe of defence is indeed access to nuclear weapons or, failing that, the eventual disappearance of french nuclear deterrence, which, as everyone knows, exists when it is not shared. the united states, although it did not seek french hegemony and was very comfortable with it, as dr kissinger has repeatedly written, would then adapt to the new situation by withdrawing from european affairs. the constant search for short-term effects at the expense of long-term ones, the need for personal glorification of a french president, a zero-point, all these discussions and other nuremberg protocols risk undermining the subtle geopolitical power relations that have existed for ages between the united states, france, great britain and germany. this trend must be combated with all the necessary vigour, in particular by strict application of the rule of unanimity, without any legal loopholes or differentiated cooperation.
before i give the floor to mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, i should like to inform you of a question i was asked a few moments ago in connection with mr napoletano's report. we have the translation in five languages at the moment, but we hope to have the report before noon in all the official languages, which would allow us to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 8 p.m. today. the text of the amendments would then be available at 9 a.m. tomorrow morning.
- then we'll have to put the deadline before 8 p.m. so that we have just 24 hours at the time of the vote, at noon. if you'd prefer, we can try to arrange things that way. we are waiting for the report to be available in all languages. i think that's the first thing we should do. however, only a few languages are available.
- you'll have your 24 hours. let's see how this works.
- mr president, mr high representative, it is with great pleasure that i welcome you here in your new duties, and i am delighted that in a few days' time you will be combining these duties with that of secretary-general of weu. all this is good news and represents real progress. the willingness to cooperate which you and commissioner patten have expressed, and which has just been very reasonable, also bodes well. i am addressing you as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy on security and defence policy. that means i've been listening to you with the greatest of attention. let me emphasise briefly today the timing, or rather the pace, of the innovations and reforms for which you are responsible. the kosovo crisis has made europeans aware of the shortcomings of their political and military capabilities. moreover, they have felt, more than ever, the risks of allowing a system designed in the cold war era to continue and more adapted to the situations of instability that are multiplying around europe and even in europe. this awareness offers an opportunity for innovation, as the cologne summit showed. but i fear that this window will close very quickly under the weight of national conservatism and budgetary constraints. that is why i think we must move as quickly as possible. it is true that institutional reforms still require further consideration. i think it would be a mistake to rush into it. the same applies to the fundamental question of the respective roles of europe and the united states. the solutions are not yet ready, but there are certainly concrete steps that can be taken quickly. for example: the extension of the general affairs council to include the defence ministers, a formula already tried last monday; the establishment of a permanent political body, the 'cops', to monitor all matters relating to the common foreign and security policy, including defence; the establishment of a military committee; the creation of a rapid reaction force of about 50,000 men, etc., etc.; i would also like to mention the very important point which the finnish presidency rightly emphasized, namely the improvement of non-military security measures, particularly for preventive purposes. all this can be done quickly in line with the guidelines agreed by the fifteen . the old adage of proving motion by walking seems to me, mr high representative, particularly wise in this case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if the commission had not already accustomed us to this kind of vagueness which is conducive to the expansion of its own power, the schwaiger report would have plunged us into an ocean of perplexity. the reasons given by the commission and set out in the report are obviously not a cause for concern. the only motives that are found are very virtuous ones, as is the case with any manipulation of general principles and generous ideas. but it is the eagerness shown and the zealous echo of the schwaiger report that gives rise to legitimate suspicions, especially if we remember that these same principles have just been flouted in the recent cases of bananas, gmos and other hormoned beef, on which the european union's defeat through the commission is as discreet as it is rapid. with this recent precedent in hand and awaiting a true assessment of the previous cycle, it seemed urgent to wait before embarking on a negotiation whose virtues remain entirely to be proven and whose rules of the game, obviously, do not seem to be the same for the european union and for our main partner and competitor, the united states. but the commission is in a hurry to bring the european union into these negotiations because once in these negotiations, the member states are no longer free. the commission is asking for their support on the grounds that they have already exercised their sovereign prerogatives in the context of the preliminary negotiations. what is the truth? the commission has a mandate which is already the result of an intergovernmental compromise. but she'll have to negotiate, so she'll concede on that basis. how are we going to proceed with the arbitrations? is there a list of untouchable domains and another list of all-designated victims? if the commission's wishes are fulfilled, the scope of the wto will encompass virtually all human activities and create a world in which everything becomes a commodity, including our public services and our culture. can we seriously conceal the fact that our specificities in education and public health or the solidarity regime would not survive? what strategy will the commission follow if the pattern described above is not or is no longer modifiable? president clinton's special representative for trade, mrs barchawski, who successfully led the washington battles over bananas, gmos and american beef, appealed to the american business community, which provided her with a 31-page document detailing the wishes of their industries. do we have anything similar to oppose them? we believe that only the member states are capable of developing appropriate policies which will make it possible to defend our interests in this area.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are very satisfied with the report by mr schwaiger on the millennium cycle of the wto, because it is in favour of respecting differences, whether cultural or economic. i would like to congratulate him on this considerable work on a subject as complex and controversial as the wto. we have already made our concerns and reservations clear in this house in the face of this new round of negotiations. however, i am pleased that the french demands on cultural diversity and social standards have been taken into account. we share the rapporteur's concern to defend the specific nature of a pluralistic european agricultural model, based on family farms which are often subject to strong geographical and environmental constraints. in the face of globalisation, it is imperative to take account of these differences, which are significantly changing the rules of the economic game, with serious social consequences. the urgency of establishing a more democratic system of negotiations, with a more transparent functioning, seems to me to be justified. it is essential that parliaments be consulted on a permanent basis and that the procedures be strictly observed. we are very concerned about the remarkable capacity of the council and the commission to retain information. i also regret that the recommendations to the commission on small and mediumsized enterprises are limited to customs duties. it is all the procedures that must be simplified for these small and mediumsized enterprises, because they alone are capable of creating hundreds of thousands of jobs. finally, i appreciate that mr schwaiger has insisted on the precautionary principle in order to integrate environmental policies into trade policies, and i share his concern about the risks of so-called eco-protectionism which has nothing to do with protecting the health of citizens.
in writing. - the european parliament and in particular the committee on women's rights, whose work i would like to commend, have played a leading role in taking violence against women and children into consideration at european level. unfortunately, this scourge takes many forms. it ranges from prostitution, trafficking in women and children, which revolts a majority of citizens, to domestic violence, a phenomenon tolerated or ignored because it belongs to the private sphere! many initiatives have already been undertaken in this field, and the results have been to create a collective awareness. we must take advantage of this favourable situation and increase our efforts to eradicate all forms of violence. the daphne programme reflects this desire to tackle this problem in a coordinated way at member state level while integrating the candidate countries. it is an essential tool in the fight against such violence. while it is generally accepted that violence against women transcends all national barriers, regardless of class, culture and/or age, there is no structured mechanism to give an objective idea of the extent of the problem in the european union. in some countries, systematic recording of violence against women is a recent development, while in others there is no systematic census. however, the medium-term action programme will undoubtedly prove useful to policy-makers and inform policy decisions and practice in this area. this programme will aim to strengthen the reach of local, regional and national actions through networking, exchange of information, best practice and cooperation, and public awareness raising. the council has incorporated more than half of our amendments into its common position. we should be glad of that. the council text contains references to health in its physical, mental and social aspects and to quality of life, as well as references to violence as a violation of human rights. it is explicitly stated that victims of trafficking and sexual exploitation will be covered by the programme. it is certainly regrettable that the duration of the programme has been reduced to four years instead of five, as originally planned. the budget allocated is also insufficient (€20 million) to deal with a problem of such a scale. despite these reservations, i shall vote today in favour of the compromise proposed by the council. if we are to eradicate the violence that is plaguing our society, we must act now. the implementation of this programme must not be delayed any longer.
in writing. - this daphne programme has been welcomed by all of us, the members of the european parliament, but also by all the non-governmental organisations and other organisations and associations working in the sensitive field of violence against children, adolescents and women. the council has reduced the duration of the programme - four years instead of the five originally planned - but the budgetary allocation remains unchanged. the rapporteur has done an excellent job of negotiating with the council and as a result our three key amendments are accepted by both the commission and the council. these amendments concern first of all the necessary reference to the notion of the physical and emotional integrity of the person and to that of his dignity, so that the exercise of physical, sexual or psychological violence amounts to depriving the person of his human rights; secondly, the definition of 'public health' as conceived by who, i.e. not just as the absence of disease or infirmity, but as a state of physical, mental and social well-being, is included in the report; thirdly, the encouragement to be given to organisations and associations in general working in this sector is emphasised. fourth, but not least, it refers to the information and awareness of the public and the media on these painful social issues. the expectations are high, therefore, and it is imperative that this house should take a decision on this matter, and since codecision is required, we must mobilise the 314 votes needed to adopt the daphne programme. i can therefore only urge you to vote unanimously on this report, to avoid further delays in the conciliation procedure and to allow it to enter into force as from january 2000.
- mr president, mrs haug's report on the european union's own resources system seems to us to be quite contradictory, and that is why we opposed it. on the one hand, it affirms excellent principles of economy, in particular the idea that the union's resources must be limited to 1.27% of the gnp of the member states, a ceiling which the commission's proposal was precisely seeking to circumvent in a surreptitious way. this position may be due to the german nationality of the rapporteur and the particular situation in germany, but in any case it is right on this point and we support it. on the other hand, however, the same rapporteur contradicts his own concern for the economy by calling, in the spirit of the berlin council of march 1999, for the creation of new own resources which would be autonomous, that is to say, in other words, european taxes. i would remind you that the pasqua-de villiers list, on which i was a candidate, had denounced the conclusions of berlin during the election campaign, but that our competitors had succeeded in stifling the matter. so, according to the berlin council, and today according to the haug report, the resources of the european budget should now be made up wholly or partly, no longer by contributions from the states, but by taxes levied directly from the citizens. at the same time, it is to be expected that the power to decide on these taxes will be transferred rapidly from the council to the european parliament. this would be contrary to our conception of a union, an association of states to which its members freely pay annual contributions. but this is not simply a question of institutional philosophy. it's also a practical question. every year we see budgetary clashes because the council is trying to resist the commission's over-spending, which is often supported by parliament. if we create a european tax, the council will gradually lose its means of resistance and we will give a decisive advantage to the institutions which are pushing for an increase in the budget. i therefore appeal to our german friends to understand that by advocating a european tax you are in the end breaking the economic principle which you are so vehemently defending in the present. and since i heard mr bourlanges say in the debate that the next intergovernmental conference should decide on the creation of a european tax, i would say on the contrary, on behalf of the europe of nations group, that if the igc is to deal with this problem, it must decide on the creation of a system which is clear, transparent, fair and, above all, closely controlled by the national democracies, i mean an annual contribution from the states based on a percentage of their gnp which is the same for all.
in writing. - the proposal for a council regulation on which we are voting today seeks to make certain changes made necessary by the decision of the european council of heads of state or government in berlin in march. the european commission is taking this opportunity to introduce new rules which express a new conception of budgetary discipline and extend its management powers, and we cannot accept that. it is also proposed that these rules should now take the legal form of a decision rather than a regulation. the french delegation of our group opposes this change in the legal nature of the act, in the sense that the regulation makes it possible to take better account of the impact of budgetary discipline on the member states as well as on the community institutions. the commission's initial proposal was unanimously opposed in the committee on budgets. another element also strengthens the powers given to the european commission in the framework of the proposal under consideration: the possibility of reducing the amount of direct aid or suspending the payment of monthly advances. since the reduced or suspended amounts are expected to be borne by the community budget by the following financial year at the latest, this intervention will necessarily result in more stringent measures in the following years, with the risk of undermining the principles of the common agricultural policy. the french delegation of the union for a europe of nations group is therefore opposed to the proposal for a regulation, as is the averoff report.
- thank you, mr knörr borràs, we take note of your statement.
- thank you, madam, for bringing the house up to date.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in chechnya.
commission. - mr president, with your permission, i was just thinking for a moment about these motions for a resolution. i am sure that members can easily imagine my feelings about the events of the last 48 hours in northern ireland. i think it has been a long time since we have been so fortunate to see the peace process come to fruition, and i would like to commend the courage of the parties involved and the party leaders who have made these encouraging developments possible. we all need to cross our fingers and, when the time comes, maybe even pray. i am very pleased to be able to take part in this important debate and i am very grateful to the officials for arranging the timetable so that i can speak before i leave for the osce summit. i hope the house will not consider it uncivilized for me to leave before the end of the debate, but i must arrive in istanbul in time, particularly to attend a meeting on the stability pact. this debate is a good opportunity for me to inform parliament of our most recent contacts with the russian authorities concerning chechnya. i will also be able to take part in the discussions planned in istanbul on this subject, with a much clearer idea of the views of the european parliament. i think it is fair to say that there is a general consensus in the european union - council, parliament and commission - on the following two principles. firstly, whatever the understandable outrage over the terrible acts of terrorism in moscow, the north caucasus and elsewhere - acts which i condemn unreservedly, as i, whose country has been the target of terrorism all too often - the russian reaction in recent weeks has been marked by a repeated and disproportionate use of military strikes, a constant disregard for the search for a political solution and a sustained indifference to the tragic human consequences. secondly, most people - and i think this is also the prevailing view throughout the european union - consider that it would be a historic mistake to start the new century by leaving russia out of european affairs as we did at the beginning of this century. it is because it wants to avoid repeating the mistakes made after 1917 that the european union is sincerely trying to establish a strategic partnership with russia. we can only see this in the dialogue we have established under the partnership and cooperation agreement and the common strategy adopted at the cologne european council. it is equally clear that the situation developing in chechnya is putting considerable pressure on our relations with russia. the russian authorities must understand that their current behaviour affects their recognition by the international community and the credibility of russia as a political and economic partner. they are trying to justify their action by the pressure of russian public opinion. it is exactly the same when they refuse to respond to the legitimate trade concerns of the european union, despite the €10 billion surplus in their trade balance with us. however, we live in democratic countries with democratic institutions such as this parliament. we must also expect pressure from the public, which is understandably horrified by what is happening in chechnya and does not always understand that we can be just spectators. so far we have reacted by trying to increase diplomatic and political pressure on russia. we took every opportunity to get the message out to all levels. at the beginning of october i participated in the troika led by foreign minister halonen. the chechen issue was omnipresent at the eu-russia summit on 22 october and dominated the discussions of the general affairs council on monday. at each stage, we have tightened the tone and radicalised the operational proposals. the message from the council this week could not be clearer. the european union strongly condemns any disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in chechnya and urges the russian government to respect its humanitarian commitments in accordance with humanitarian law. there is no alternative to seeking a negotiated agreement based on dialogue with the elected leaders of the north caucasus countries, including chechnya. the council stressed that russia would be making a serious political mistake by imposing a military solution on chechnya. what would the situation be in a month or two, in a year or two? there seems to be no long-term russian strategy for ensuring lasting peace. more specifically, the council urges a role for the osce and the opening of an osce assistance group office in chechnya in nazran and ingushetia. the council concluded that the istanbul summit on thursday and friday could serve, among other things, to convey these messages to the russian authorities. i would certainly like to come back to this house after istanbul to give an account of the message as we have delivered it and the reactions that have been received. i am asked more and more often whether the european union should not step up the pressure and move from forceful talk to more direct action. what do you mean by that? some are proposing to close the financial aid tap under the tacis programme. do you think this will stop the military intervention? such a measure would not have a direct impact on russian public finances, as all funds follow the chain of contractors mainly located in the european union. it would, however, undermine the process of economic and social modernisation which we have so vehemently defended. what if we suspended the food aid? the current program is coming to an end. by september, more than 90% of the planned food aid had already been delivered to russia. it is now up to the russian authorities to distribute them. our priority is to ensure that the proceeds from the programme are actually used to pay pension arrears and other social projects. as far as the future is concerned, we have serious doubts about the need and economic justification for a new food aid programme. recent events in chechnya provide a further strong political argument against any further request for food aid from russia. i already warned madeleine albright last week that i did not think this parliament would approve any new food aid to russia this winter. it was also suggested that the imf assistance and the ebrd loans be suspended. these are clearly not matters for the european union to deal with directly. that said, would it really be in our interest to provoke a backlash against the international community on the eve of the duma elections in december? the osce meeting in istanbul offers an opportunity to move forward, although i am not very optimistic. the russians have made it clear that their public opinion comes before any other consideration in their handling of the crisis. our job must be to convince them that their current approach, which lacks vision, will never lead to lasting peace in the caucasus, and that we must be able to provide quickly and in sufficient quantities the food aid that the people so desperately need with the coming of winter. we will be more effective on both fronts if we keep the channels of communication open. that is why, as the presidency and the high representative, i wish to remain in close contact with igor ivanov, the russian minister for foreign affairs. we met last week in helsinki on the sidelines of the conference on the nordic dimension and have spoken by telephone since then. as regards the urgency of the humanitarian situation, i have repeatedly stressed the need to guarantee access and security for international aid agencies. some progress has been made following recent evaluation missions by external experts and donors. these have provided a better measure of the scale of humanitarian needs. it is reported that ingushetia is now hosting up to 200,000 chechen refugees, most of whom live with families and the rest in camps. many of the displaced people are waiting to cross the border, while many others have returned to their homes in chechnya, either in the area occupied by the russian military or in the area still under the control of chechen fighters. in total, there are almost half a million people who are in need of humanitarian aid, more or less urgently, not to mention the needs of the local population of ingushetia, which is hosting the refugees, and which must also be taken into account. assessment of needs is only one aspect of the problem. the material provision of aid is another. continuing security concerns have so far limited relief efforts. the commission has committed almost €1 million to echo for the unhcr. the large-scale assistance that this region desperately needs cannot be provided on the basis of remote control, with donors overly dependent on the russian ministry of emergency situations. we must therefore keep up the pressure on the russian authorities to take more decisive action to facilitate access for international donors and to ensure their safety. finally, i would say that mr ivanov has suggested in our conversations that it might be useful to intensify contacts between the european parliament and the duma, with, why not, a visit to moscow by a group of representatives of parliament. obviously, you would like to see for yourself what is going on and make up your own mind. i know that under the admirable presidency of mrs krehl your delegation for relations with russia is one of the most active in this parliament, but i would urge you to consider mr ivanov's suggestion with all the seriousness it deserves. the commission genuinely wants constructive relations between the russian federation and the european union. the future security and prosperity of our continent is in the interest of both parties. i must admit, however, that the current crisis in chechnya is seriously undermining the partnership we have been striving to establish. and we all know that if we are to have any chance of getting the russians to listen to our message, we must try to preserve this partnership. this is the terrible dilemma we face. the russians have to admit that they can't just sweep our concerns off their hands. we want a more open friendship and understanding, but they need to understand that this is not a one-way street.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr patten has already made a very analytical and intelligent speech on this subject. the views he has expressed are easily won over. we have had to monitor daily, with growing concern, the continuation of military operations in chechnya during the autumn. what is particularly worrying is that the russian government has still not - contrary to its promises - taken the initiative to seek a political solution to the crisis and instead is resorting exclusively to military means. moscow's political objectives in chechnya seem, in the slightly longer term, always impossible to predict. it is also important to ensure that the european parliament is fully involved in the process of negotiations. in this brief intervention, i will present our analysis first of the military situation and then of the humanitarian situation in the chechen crisis. thirdly, i will speak about the measures taken so far by the european union and the international community and their objectives in chechnya. militarily, russia controls about half of chechnya's territory, and it is advancing systematically. russia took the town of gudermes last friday, and will probably end up occupying grozny as well. russia's stated goal is to bring all of chechnya back under moscow's control. for prime minister putin, the war has also been a success of domestic policy so far. the european union repeatedly expressed its concern over the disproportionate use of force in chechnya during the autumn. this use of force has caused many civilian casualties and has resulted in an ever-increasing number of people becoming refugees in their own countries. the use of force against civilians is prohibited by international humanitarian law. by its action, russia has failed to fulfil its obligations under the geneva convention and its annexed protocols. the indiscriminate bombing has caused many civilian casualties. the european union stressed the need for a rapid de-escalation of the conflict and urged russia to enter into negotiations to find a lasting solution. it is clear that a conflict which is essentially political cannot be resolved by military means.
mr president-in-office of the council, i am obliged to interrupt our work for a few moments to check whether the alarm we are hearing is justified or not. (the sitting was suspended at 3.20 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
- mr sasi, if you would resume your speech on behalf of the council, apologizing for this technical incident.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the situation in chechnya. the european union drew attention to the urgency of international humanitarian aid to alleviate the plight of people fleeing war. the pictures of refugee camps under the snow give us a stark picture of the plight of refugees. victims of internal conflicts are entitled to assistance under humanitarian law. russia has an obligation to ensure that aid can freely reach the area. the european union has demanded that russia ensure that aid arrives quickly and safely, to avoid a humanitarian catastrophe. the general affairs council adopted a statement this week calling once again for the disproportionate and indiscriminate nature of the military measures, the suffering of the civilian population and the need to engage in negotiations in order to find a political solution. the declaration called on russia to respect its commitments under international humanitarian law, to use the good offices of the osce and to ensure the delivery of international humanitarian aid. the european union reiterated its position on the territorial integrity of russia. the russian leaders, in their meetings with the representatives of the european union and the countries of the european union in the autumn, assured that russia was seeking a political solution. this was done, amongst others, by mr putin, the russian prime minister, at the eu-russia summit in helsinki on 22 october. we need to insist with russia that we expect it to keep its promises and to seek a political solution, not a military one. russia has indicated that its action was aimed at the fight against terrorism. in its statements, the european union has always condemned terrorism in all its forms. the european union, however, insisted that the fight against terrorism must always be conducted in accordance with respect for human rights. the european union considers that the use of violence against civilians in the name of the fight against terrorism cannot be tolerated under any circumstances. it is of the utmost importance that the administrative border between ingushetia and chechnya remains open so that the civilian population fleeing chechnya can find refuge in ingushetia. the civilians must be guaranteed free passage across the border to protect themselves from bombing and violence. the denial of civilians of their basic needs is a violation of international humanitarian law. the european union has endeavoured to help keep the border open and to allow all people in need and seeking refuge to cross. the visits to the region by the delegations of foreign minister halonen (30 october), un organisations (3 to 7 november) and the osce (9 and 10 november) can be regarded as a positive development. the visits to the region not only provided information on the situation but also better reflected the concern of the international community. in order for the international community to have an influence on the situation, efforts should be made to ensure an international presence in the north caucasus. it is within the osce that this would be done in the most natural way. the aim should be to establish the osce representation in grozny, which had been evacuated to moscow, in the town of nazran, ingushetia. with winter approaching, special efforts must be made to ensure the safe delivery of international humanitarian aid. the humanitarian situation in the region seems particularly worrying. a un report confirms that the humanitarian situation is deteriorating rapidly. finally, it should be stressed that the early cessation of military operations is in the interests of both the european union and russia, as the continuation of these military operations would have a negative effect on the emerging russia-eu relations. we are monitoring the situation closely and will continue to put pressure on russia to find a lasting and peaceful solution to the situation in chechnya. the next opportunity to do so - as mr patten has mentioned - will be the osce summit which starts tomorrow in istanbul.
- mr president, mr council representative, mr commissioner, it is with relief that our colleagues and i have welcomed the statement by the union's foreign affairs council yesterday strongly condemning the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force in chechnya. it is with relief that we heard this morning that mr solana has taken a very firm stand on this matter and that he has pledged to do everything in his power this afternoon in istanbul to ensure that international law and respect for the human person are respected in this territory, and it is with relief that we have just heard you, commissioner patten, say that you are going to join mr solana's efforts on the ground. we were the majority in this parliament in condemning the methods used by the russian army to crush under fire any possible resistance to its advance without taking into account the casualties thus caused in the civilian population. we were also the most deplorable, along with a majority of european public opinion, of the striking contrast between the noise of the bombings and the prolonged silence of the governments of the european union. i can attest to this, having chaired yesterday the meeting of all the groups in this parliament to draw up a joint draft resolution which, unlike some others, will not be a compromise text, and in no way a compromise between divergent positions, but rather a rich synthesis of the proposals of each of the political families gathered together, in a common desire to make the contribution of our parliament to a political solution to the drama which is now bloodying chechnya. in this resolution, which i am sure will receive a large majority of our colleagues tomorrow, we join our voices with those of the council in condemning the action being taken and in calling for immediate negotiations with the elected representatives of the chechen people. we are asking, together with you, for the immediate deployment of the necessary humanitarian aid to help the hundreds of thousands of people displaced by the fighting, but we are asking, commissioner patten, that consideration be given, as a first step, to suspending economic aid to russia if it does not find a way to negotiate and if it continues its indiscriminate attacks on the civilian population. i understand very well, and we sincerely hope that the persuasion effort that you and mr solana are about to undertake will be successful. we also propose, and i am sure we will support, the proposal for a conference and for parliament's participation in that conference.
- mr president, the russian tanks are breaking up a people, as they have already broken up and tried to break up the people in hungary in 1956, in germany in 1963 and we could give other examples up to prague in 1968. let's stop the hypocrisy and the double talk. the russian policy in chechnya is an old one: it is based on the stalinist policy which displaced all these people behind the urals, from where they were only able to return some twenty or thirty years ago. and if we say that we do not want to exclude russia from europe, we are right. but when the russians say that this is an internal problem, we must tell them that today we have only one world and common values. and it is in the name of these values that we claim to have a right to political interference, humanitarian interference, in the face of russian barbarity. yes, there was terrorism. but who committed acts of terrorism in moscow? do we know that? russian history tells us that katyn must have been the work of the germans - before it was discovered that it was actually the work of the russians. i don't know who committed the horrible crimes in russia. what i do know is that the women, the children of chechnya, who are being massacred today, surely did not commit acts of terrorism. that is why when we europeans say 'we are freezing aid to russia', we are not doing so to exclude russia, but to integrate it into our common values. let us not give in to the blackmail that says to us: "if we do not help yeltsin or putin, we will have worse", because what could be worse than the annihilation of grozny and the annihilation of chechnya? could mr. lebed or any other lunatic do anything else differently? that is why i ask the council, the commission, to be sincere in telling the russians that if they do not change, we will change our aid policy. of course we will provide food aid to the russians, but we will no longer support a government that resembles the old russian government. besides, mr. putin looks like all the kgb members and presidents. i would like to say this to mr armatov, the chechen foreign minister, who, as he listens to us, will, i believe, have an idea of what democracy in europe is. (applause) i would like to thank
- i would point out to this house that commissioner patten had to leave us to catch his plane to istanbul to attend the osce meeting as scheduled. i shall therefore turn to the council to conclude the statements which i am sure have been followed with great interest by the citizens of chechnya who are in the gallery today.
- i take note of your statement, mr posselt.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0062/1999) by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the eu approach to the wto millennium cycle (com (99) 331 - c5-0155/1999 - 1999/2149 (cos)).
- mr president, commissioner lamy, this morning the president-in-office of the council recalled the importance of agriculture in the wto negotiations, and i thank him for that. you already know that european farmers will have to make a great deal of effort to adapt to the implementation of the berlin compromise, which was the acceptable balance for the 15 member states of the european union last march. you know that the developing countries must be able to count on europe to guarantee the legitimate growth of their own agriculture, which is often the major sector of their economic development. you know that the united states is now demonstrating that the market alone can hardly provide agricultural income. so you should also know that we are counting on you in particular to lead these wto negotiations to the results we want. as regards market access, how can we fail to recognise that europe is not the fortress it is unjustly accused of being, when we are the world's largest importer with a deficit in the agri-food trade balance? this reality, commissioner, must enable you to fight so that the opening of markets and the reduction of tariff barriers take place in a gradual manner and in a way that varies according to the sectors. as for the market protection mechanisms, if they need to be adjusted, should they not be maintained or even strengthened for some countries, and i am thinking in particular of the developing countries? as regards internal support, how can we not argue that agenda 2000 is leading to a sharp reduction in the overall measure of support, at a time when the usa is pursuing a policy of the opposite? this situation should enable you to secure the maintenance of the blue box and green box recognized in marrakesh, as well as the renewal of the peace clause. as regards export subsidies, how can we fail to appreciate the reduction effort we are making with the new common agricultural policy? this development should enable you to demand transparency and the treatment of the various forms of export aid used by our competitors. commissioner, the berlin agreement was reached to give the european union real room for manoeuvre in this millennium cycle. we are confident that you will be able to exploit it, based on the concept of multifunctionality, which makes it possible to meet the various expectations of our society in terms of product quality, employment and sustainable rural development, protection and conservation of the natural heritage and also in terms of territorial balance. this approach should open up interesting opportunities for alliances in europe. that is why we are counting on you to be aggressive in this negotiation, in which you have our demanding support.
- mr president, on the eve of seattle, i still think it is regrettable to embark on a new round of negotiations without taking a serious look at the previous one. the fact that millions of people are affected by the consequences of the decisions that will be taken, however, makes it a necessity. the adherents of trade liberalisation as a driver of prosperity are all the more reluctant to accept this assessment because it is indeed difficult to deny that the situation has worsened in recent years with the increase in inequalities between the backward developing countries and the advanced countries, as well as the growth of inequalities within the developed countries themselves. when there is a concentration of wealth at one pole and an increase in unemployment at another, one can indeed ask whether the wto has not first served to institutionalize the law of the strongest. there is an urgent need to promote a new approach to trade between nations, based on solidarity, cooperation, democracy, the promotion of employment and social rights. but if all this is not to remain a pious wish, decisions must be taken, i think, in three directions. firstly, to give substance to the principle that these negotiations must be of benefit to countries and peoples in difficulty, by affirming the right of the union and the member states to defend their development policy and the specific agreements with the acp and by refusing to see the lomé agreements called into question by the wto. secondly, to affirm the primacy of the interests of the people over commercial and financial criteria. i shall make three proposals in this connection, provided that they are not exhaustive. first, to subordinate the rules of the wto to the international charters and conventions governing human rights, social, health and environmental issues. i am thinking here of kyoto, beijing and copenhagen. secondly, to refuse further liberalization of services and, on the contrary, to help develop cooperation in public services of education, health, transport. finally, to maintain the principle of cultural exception, which recognises the possibility for the union and the member states to preserve their capacity to define freely their audiovisual cultural policy in the name of the development of a living and enriching diversity. another proposal is to make the precautionary principle of the environment, health and food safety a top priority. thirdly, a thorough democratization of the wto structures is essential. democratic control of the negotiations and the implementation of the agreements is necessary. it is necessary to accept the presence of ngos, representatives of civil society and trade unions, with observer status, at these negotiations. it is also necessary for all the points negotiated at the wto to be ratified by the european parliament and the national parliaments. today, the wto makes laws, enforces them, and settles disputes. i believe that one cannot be both judge and party. the dispute settlement body needs to be radically changed.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by 2005 at the latest, the trade negotiations opened in seattle will be completed. mr lamy, you will be back in 2005, sitting in the same seat, and you will tell us that the european union has been a global success because it is a global negotiation. you will have obtained, in the final act, a mention on the precautionary principle, on sanitary, even phytosanitary, an ilo-wto forum, a recognition of environmental principles, especially since they have already been recognized in kyoto. we'll have improved the dispute resolution process. the developing countries will have obtained positive discrimination, which the european union will finance, as for the acp banana. the hens will have even gained a few inches in their cages, in the name of animal welfare that we will recognize, and the world of film and television will have secured the maintenance of a few helpers. in exchange for peace, a new peace clause, you'll have made some concessions to seattle. the 'european market' will thus be reduced from 5% to x%, internal support will become residual, export aids will have been condemned, customs duties and tariff peaks will no longer exist, direct investment will have been obtained thanks to lamy, because of ami, and the market will have become global, a kind of commercial fukuyama, the end of gatt history. so, what are we gonna do? there will be no more items for the tenth round of the uruguay round. you, perhaps, can always go back to crédit lyonnais or a multinational that distributes stock options. but what will happen to the peasants, who will have been eliminated, the marginalized liberal professions, the textile industry, the pharmacy, the footwear, the heavy vehicles, the furniture, the ships, the toys, all of which will have been handed over to non-european competition? we'll be doing reports, books, television shows, speeches. the children of seattle's bargaining power will have their place in the 21st century, and the children of the excluded will be excluded, because poverty is a socially transmitted disease. but, after all, none of this matters. we always have enough strength to bear the ills of others.
- mr commissioner, mr president, i believe that in this millennium cycle europe must affirm three major principles. the first is that this cycle must aim at reducing development inequalities, unlike what has happened as a result of previous cycles. today, the african continent accounts for less than 3 percent of world trade. the rules of the multilateral trading system must take account of differences in situations, resources and levels of development. free trade without any other consideration is to strengthen the strong and weaken the weak. we cannot therefore accept that the principles of our cooperation with the countries of the south, and in particular with the acp countries, and i am of course referring to the lomé convention, should be called into question. i believe, on the contrary, that we must reaffirm the commitments we made at the acp-eu joint assembly a few weeks ago. europe must go to seattle with a vision of globalisation that is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by a single power. europe must instead promote a vision of a multipolar world and encourage the creation of economically and politically integrated regional groups, as we have been trying to do for the last 40 years. how can we deny others what we granted ourselves after the war to rebuild our industry, our agriculture, our economy? secondly, the wto must be confined, its role strictly limited and areas which are at stake in the very identity of companies, which must remain under the sovereignty of citizens and their elected institutions, kept out of its sphere of competence. education, health, public and social services, public transport and culture are all areas which cannot be included in the balance of trade negotiations and cannot be the subject of an international trade court. we must reject the race to the general commodification. thirdly, we must uphold the principle of a hierarchy of standards. the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, the international labour organization conventions, the environmental conventions, are of more importance than the standards that govern trade. a state cannot be condemned for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment or for refusing to import goods which are proven to be the products of child labour. on the contrary, it must be possible to appeal against a wto decision to the international labour organisation or to the competent bodies of the united nations. on the eve of this new cycle, it is striking that civil society and international public opinion have entered the debate. i think this is an excellent development because it is the best guarantee that these issues will not be able to be eliminated during these negotiations.
- the wto, created to accelerate trade liberalization, has become one of the essential pillars of the new international order. it not only accompanies globalisation but also seeks to give it form and legal force, in order to impose the dictatorship of the markets. it actively contributes to the implementation of neoliberal policies that result in attacks on public services, employment rights, health, food security, and the environment. unfortunately, the european delegation in seattle is part of the liberal logic. it is in favour of extending the powers of the wto, which is totally rejected by the associations and organisations which have called for both an assessment of the last five years of the wto and a moratorium on future negotiations. we support this approach as the first step towards a radical challenge to the international capitalist order. that is why we cannot vote on this schwaiger report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in marrakesh we were promised an assessment of the previous round of negotiations before we started new negotiations. today, this balance sheet does not exist for a simple reason: it would not be positive. he would say that we must break with liberal dogma, the old theory that by expanding trade we create wealth. in 50 years, trade has increased 17 times, while we have produced only twice as many goods on our planet. he also rejected the idea that the situation in the third world would improve. inequality has been rising, both there and here. he would say that we must change course, and that is what we are asking you to do, commissioner. changing course means first of all getting real social and environmental regulations out of the existing package, the one already negotiated, instead of vague references to standards that have never been applied. yes, it means opposing ecological and social dumping with real logic. the balance sheet would say 'prudence', so as not to open pandora's box in other sectors, and i am thinking in particular of investment. this parliament has said no to the ami. he said 'no' for substantive reasons and you, commissioner, must take up these arguments to avoid the investment sector experiencing the disasters we have seen in other areas. finally, this balance sheet would condemn the patentability of "the living", the fact that life, plants, everything becomes a commodity. the 20th century has been marked by a fundamental crisis of humanism through xenophobia, genocides. i do not want the 21st century to be marked by a crisis of humanism because the all-purchasing, all-money approach would take precedence over human development, over the fundamental values that make up human life.
- mr president, no, the seattle conference is not a summons by the united states to the rest of the world to impose the vision of absolute and unfettered free trade. it's the exact opposite. the world trade organization is a european idea, to which the americans converted in marrakesh after long-standing opposition. for seattle, it is the europeans, not the americans, who are proposing the broader agenda: the millennium cycle is our idea. it was the europeans, not the americans, who benefited most from the previous negotiations. since 1995, the us trade deficit with us has increased dramatically, to almost $30 billion last year. finally, the challenge is not trade without rules, but rather to ensure that the tremendous growth in trade serves the sustainable development of all, not the predatory enrichment of the strongest. we want more trade, we want to remove the many barriers which still exist in some countries for certain products and for most services. we want fair trade for all, that is to say, equal conditions of competition. they are not in agriculture, nor in the cultural industries. we need competition rules and a court to enforce them, including by the strong against the weak. finally, we want trade that benefits sustainable development, by linking trade agreements with our other major international commitments on fundamental labour rights, food security and environmental protection. we must, in essence, take the same approach at global level as we succeeded in doing in europe when we moved from the customs union to the single area, and that is why europe can contribute the most to the negotiations and has the right to expect the most from them.
- mr president, is our parliament really aware of the stakes involved in the future intergovernmental conference? sometimes i wonder. when i see in the text of the report that we are capable of pushing the absurdity to the point of limiting ourselves to two representatives at the table, i think that some in this house are definitely afraid of their own shadow. the igc, however, opens a narrow historical window which allows the indispensable to join the possible. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the codecision procedure must become the general rule. our parliament must, as in any democracy worthy of the name, have full budgetary authority over both expenditure and revenue. we must give europe the tools of fairness, security and solidarity. let us be clear: it is high time that our continent was involved in a constituent process. the only real limitation is not our imagination as democrats, but the political will of our assembly. and if we are not able to really break free from the shackles of the current rules, then any further reform would become impossible. without real reforms, europe, often powerless at 15, would be sterile at 30. as commissioner barnier has very well understood, today's developments must make possible the developments of tomorrow. and who but we, the members of parliament elected by direct universal suffrage by the peoples of europe, would have greater legitimacy to lead and conclude this great process. a parliament often passes laws, but rarely writes history. because this honour is given to us today, ladies and gentlemen, i call on us to be worthy of it, i call on us to show political courage.
- mr president, in our debate on the mandate of the next igc, i should like to say a few words on a matter which is not on the agenda of this conference but which, when the time comes, i believe our assembly will have to consider and evaluate the results of the whole year. this is the question of reform of the council, of all the reforms we are told that they must and can bring about outside a reform of the treaties. i guess so. let us embark on this path, but let us do so with a reasonable timetable, that is to say, the same as that of the igc. my group has tabled an amendment to that effect and i hope that tomorrow our assembly will be able to vote on it. as regards the three remaining questions, do we think we are now in a position to answer the question which the amsterdam summit failed to resolve? what kind of question is that ? we must dare to ask. it is perhaps less a question, it seems to me, of how we are to function than of what we want to do together when we are sixteen or twenty-seven. if we do not answer this question, we will not find a solution for the three left-overs in amsterdam. in any event, preparing the union for the next enlargements opens up a question left unanswered after amsterdam, namely the question of enhanced cooperation. because, apart from the three institutional issues which are already part of the igc's mandate, no one in the context of the amsterdam review could tell us whether the solutions we had reached for the functioning of these enhanced cooperation arrangements were satisfactory. we must work towards reforming these enhanced cooperation arrangements so as to enable the establishment of a genuine vanguard of the union, open within the union, in order to continue to make progress on the road to security, democracy and stability on our continent.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i must tell the honourable member that the council does not have the information he is asking for. it should be noted in this connection that the monitoring of the situation of the transeuropean networks falls within the competence of the commission. under article 18 of the decision of the european parliament and of the council on trans-european networks, member states shall regularly communicate to the commission the national projects and programmes they have drawn up for the development of trans-european networks, in particular as regards the projects of common interest detailed in that decision.
- mr president, i thank you, but i am not satisfied with your answer, because the question of somport is an old one. i am therefore surprised that the council is not aware of this, since a number of questions have already been asked in this connection. i am also surprised that you can speak of a transeuropean network when the member states concerned, france and spain, do not consider this section to be part of the transeuropean network. if that were the case, i would immediately ask that an impact study be carried out on this subject. i asked you this because work has begun again in the aspe valley. it's a huge job to set up a little detour from the little village of bedous. these have a considerable impact on the environment and it is well known that in the long run france will have a sausage policy and that little by little we will eventually arrive at a motorway, or a two-lane road, in the aspe valley. so i would like the council today to ask what france's real commitments are on this issue, what the authorities really want to put in place for the crossing of the pyrenees and i would like to address the finnish presidency which has committed itself and has spoken out for the crossing by rail. finally, if you will allow me, i suggest that you launch an initiative to promote alternative transport to the road in an ecologically sensitive area, otherwise we will continue to ask you this kind of question and we will only be able to observe... (the president cut off the speaker)
- i'd like to tell the minister that i'm a little dissatisfied with his answer. we are indeed faced with the need for a new association agreement which is due to enter into force on 1 march 2000, and i am a little surprised that at this stage no decision has yet been taken on the three guidelines, the three paths which have been outlined. i would like to ask the council, when these routes are drawn up, how it intends to involve parliament in the definition of this new financial instrument, because it is certain that a new financial instrument will be needed, since what currently exists is no longer at all adapted to the situation of the overseas countries and territories today and is not in line with the demands of these countries.
- mr president, i myself read this information and i must tell you that i was deeply indignant and shocked. i think your applause shows that everyone agrees with me in expressing our assembly's indignation at afghanistan.
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- look, i'm quite appalled by all these mistakes which are obviously hardware errors, but which are not normal at all and we're going to put this all in order.
- very well, mr. della alba. - thank you. that's why i'm here.
- no, i'll reassure you right away. that is not the case, that is a mistake.
- thank you very much, mr mccartin. i had the opportunity to raise the same issue yesterday when i opened the sitting.
- thank you, mr president, for this speech, which is not in the minutes. it's not too bad. it is a very relevant speech which i will be submitting to the college of quaestors today to see if we can find good solutions to the problem you have raised. (the minutes were approved)
- madam president, i was waiting for the minutes to be voted in order to reply to my colleague. each of you will have noticed that on each of the trash cans, there is a designation, so that there is a paper and cardboard trash can. the selective sorting is therefore being carried out in our parliament in strasbourg. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, baron crespo. i think mr dupuis will have the opportunity to answer you, since he has signed up to intervene against this request. mr barón crespo has just presented the request. mr poettering asks me to speak in favour of the motion.
- thank you, mr poettering. - thank you. yes, i think if the vote were to take place tomorrow, friday, we would have some difficulty in getting the 314 votes. but you never know.
- very well, thank you, mr. dupuis. mr dupuis has just spoken on the question of the admissibility of this request. mr. dupuis, you won't be surprised to hear that i spent part of the night studying the matter. and i have come to the conclusion that the application was perfectly admissible under the rules. so we heard you. i now call mr voggenhuber to speak against the motion.
- my dear colleagues, things seem pretty clear, as clear as they can be. article 112 of our rules of procedure refers to article 60 (1): 'urgency of a debate on a proposal which is the subject of a consultation of parliament pursuant to article 60 (1)...'. and article 60 (1) clearly states: 'proposals from the commission or other documents of a legislative nature'. the problem of interpretation is the nature of mr napolitano's report. i think that mr napolitano's report is intended to apply a piece of legislation, because it is the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on olaf investigations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i hope i've made myself clear. mr. napolitano, could you tell me if you share my sentiment?
- my dear colleagues, we are not going to spend the whole morning on this. we have heard mr barón crespo who put forward the request, and mr poettering who spoke in favour of the request. i would now like to know whether any of my colleagues wish to intervene against this request. if not, i'll put her directly to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) this is the first item on the agenda for today.
- ladies and gentlemen, i think we are going to hear the rapporteur for the creation of the eurodac system, mr pirker, who has asked me to speak.
- i understand what you said, mr. pirker. i think mr watson, who is the chairman of the committee concerned, would like to say a few words.
mr president, i am told that the timing of the vote may lead us to this situation, that is, that we cannot vote on this report today. and tomorrow morning, many more delegations than the ones you mentioned may have problems. i believe that this is not the case with any particular delegation, and i would like to make that clear.
the commission is aware of the importance of the instrument which we are submitting to parliament. we therefore want to have as broad a political base as possible in favour of it. from the commission's point of view and as regards the timetable, in order to allow this matter to be examined by the council on 2 and 3 december, the vote in parliament should take place today. otherwise we will have to renegotiate the whole timetable with the council, and i cannot tell you what the outcome of that negotiation will be. this is the most disturbing aspect of working in the union: you can never predict the outcome of a negotiation with the council.
- commissioner, if we vote on this report on 1 december, will it still be acceptable?
commission - i sincerely believe, madam president, that it will not be possible, with a vote on 1 december, to put the matter before the council on 2 december. i am very sorry, but i would like to point out that i have not had a formal negotiation with the council on this. this is just a forecast.
- mr pirker, i think it would be best if we could get on with the report very quickly. the sooner we do that, the sooner we have a chance of getting this report not only debated but voted on this morning. i understand the commissioner's message. mrs giannakou, i turn to you: would you accept my proposal to the house - if the house accepts it - to swap and examine the pirker report just before yours?
- mrs. giannakou, thank you very much. that's very generous of you. i turn to the house: do you agree that we should debate mr pirker's report just before mrs giannakou's report? (parliament agreed to the request)
- the next item is the report (a5-0066/1999) by mr napolitano, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the amendments to the rules of procedure following the interinstitutional agreement of 25 may 1999 concerning internal investigations by the european anti-fraud office (olaf).
- mr president, the eurodac project shows the true face of liberal europe. a fortress of suspicion and police repression against the persecuted of the planet. the computerized recording of fingerprints is an infringement of individual freedom. he systematically treats asylum seekers as suspects. it disputed the inviolability of the documents held by the bodies responsible for examining their application. it violates the legal protection due to refugees; the court of justice has also held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is not a fundamental principle of the treaty. who in this town would take the fingerprints of a 14-year-old? the eurodac project criminalizes immigrants who are undocumented, without status, often because of the diversity of laws between countries. it is basically a violation of all international conventions protecting human rights. with this project, fortress europe is guilty of failing to assist refugees in danger. what is so surprising about a liberal europe that equips the dictatorship in ankara with combat helicopters, just as it rejects kurdish refugees? eurodac must be rejected as a matter of urgency.
commission - (de) madam president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the commission particularly welcomes the report by the rapporteur. the commission particularly welcomes parliament's amendment proposal which aims to allocate the 25 million differently from the overall transfer proposal. the commission regrets that the council has not yet indicated its approval of this proposal from parliament. it therefore urges the council to support this proposal too, so that this year we can allocate an additional €670 million to the foreign policy programmes we urgently need, through a different allocation and through a reduction in expenditure. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, mrs schreyer. i regret that the council is not represented.
- mr. schwaiger, i have requests for a split vote, a separate vote, and i've been asked to isolate the words "fair" and "socially balanced". so i respect the request that was made to me.
- mrs maes, you will agree that it is very difficult to vote to insert words into a text on which we have not yet voted. i think we have to be logical and very consistent.
- i think there's been a mix-up. the amendment is not the text you read, madam president. the amendment in question consists of deleting words. so we have to decide whether or not to delete these words. here's the amendment. and the second part is the sentence that follows, not the sentence that was read. the object of our vote is therefore to delete or maintain words.
- that's it, but we're voting to delete the two words one after the other. so i suggest you vote on the word "fair" first. (protests) the deletion is only about "socially balanced"?
- i think it's becoming clear. we have an amendment from the epp group, amendment no 11, which seeks to delete words and i shall put that request to the vote. i think that the time is not right, in the course of the sitting, to try to fine-tune an oral amendment. i can see that mr chichester has the wisdom to forgo it.
- i ask for your understanding. the important thing is that we know what we want to vote for. in negotiations as important as these, our message needs to be very clear and if you accept it, i think we could indeed make a subdivision...
- mr baron crespo, if i understand correctly, there is an oral amendment. but the colleagues don't even have to stand up, things are very clear. the request for an oral amendment is dismissed. we're taking note of that. i put to the vote amendment no 11 by the epp, which is to delete the words that have been said. - the 25th amendment
- i certainly will, mrs mcnally. i have the impression that the colleagues are very attentive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. - after the vote on paragraph 29
- for a recall of the rules, madam president. article 117 provides that one or other language may be used. the french version is full of english expressions which make the text incomprehensible. so, of course, with an operation like seattle, all american, it's only natural that the imperial language should take over. but if you want to pretend to use the french language, respect its vocabulary.
- mr. cousteau, i think i'm going to disappoint you, because i'm going to put to the vote the first part of paragraph 30 which goes from "propose that any draft agreement", to "principles of corporate governance". i'm sorry about that.
- madam president, in order not to slow down the debate, i would like to make a general remark concerning all my amendments. i have tabled many amendments in french, and i have signed them myself. however, i realise that the french version which has been officially distributed is not identical to the one i gave to the services. it's not normal. it's not a problem of translation. there is an anonymous proofreader somewhere in the services who corrects the ideas of the members. i would like to see the version i signed and gave to the services taken over. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr. berthu, there is no anonymous and malicious proofreader. in fact, there are two of your amendments which have not been expressed very well and which i shall read when the time comes so that the house can make an informed decision. i am fully aware of this problem and we apologize. - after the vote on amendment no 70
- mr. corbett, i've looked into the matter. i do not feel i have the right to do so, because that would mean that i would have to vote in a block on the amendments that follow. on the other hand, mr berthu, who asked me to speak, may perhaps tell us that he is withdrawing his amendments, which would be the simplest thing to do. but the decision is his, of course.
- my dear colleagues, at this late hour in the morning, a little humor is in order.
- mr schulz, we heard the commissioner this morning on mr pirker's report. as far as i know, tonight and tomorrow too, there will certainly be a very large number of members of the european parliament, as we have seen in the past. i will ask mr pirker: do you wish to vote tonight, of course?
- mrs giannakou-koutsikou, we will not vote tomorrow, we will vote tonight, but as the debate on mrs giannakou-koutsikou's report is not yet over, it is a little different.
- mr. pirker, i'm interrupting because i have a proposition to make. since we have now gone far beyond our time, more or less, i propose that we vote on the pirker report immediately. it's going to be very quick, by the way. i 'll take care of it . (applause) report (a5-0059/1999) by mr pirker, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the eurodac system for the comparison of the fingerprints of asylum seekers and certain other aliens (com (1999) 260 - c5-0082/1999 - 1999/0116 (cns))
- we put to the vote amendment no 3 by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, excluding 'third-country nationals' and '18 years' and possibly reintroducing them.
in writing. - we do not intend to put our backing into the european anti-fraud office. although this office was created under the pretext of control of officials and elected representatives of the european institutions, neither the manner in which it was appointed nor the absence of any indication of how it would be controlled inspires the slightest confidence in us. we are in favour not only of full transparency in the functioning of all the european institutions, but also of the election and recall at any time not only of all those who are elected today, but also of all those who have responsibility at any level, from the bottom up, including the brussels commission. given the undemocratic nature of the decision-making bodies of the european union, the creation of olaf seems to be a ridiculous measure designed to pretend to control when there is no real and democratic control.
in writing. - the national front members of the european parliament condemn in the strongest terms corruption, whether it is that of elected officials, civil servants or members of governments. they also condemn fraud or misappropriation of public funds, money stolen from european taxpayers. and we know something about this, as french people who have to deal with the daily developments in the affairs of the mnef, the paris city council, elf or gifco. the list is unfortunately far from exhaustive. they will, however, vote against the napolitano report. because they are tired of this parliament's self-flagellation, alternating with lessons in morality and an equally unbearable morgue. because they think that with olaf, we are recruiting yet another team of officials, whose cost will be higher than the amount of fraud. because they believe, above all, that there is already a structure capable of assuming the role that olaf is intended to play. the solution is obviously to give the court of auditors jurisdictional power and the human and material means to carry it out. this is the case for many national accounting courts, not only in france but also in other member states. it is true that the court of auditors does not have a good reputation in this parliament, since the president has refused it a press conference room, a room which is nevertheless readily granted to the most fanciful associations, to personalities of the most dubious representativeness, or to any watchdog of the single thought provided that he barks loudly. in this case, as in many others, parliament has made a fool of itself.
in writing. - there is corruption. from the left to power and the right to government. names sum it up: agusta in belgium, urba in france, palermo in italy, fictitious jobs at the rpr in paris, the national mutual of students in france or dominique strauss-kahn. but because we in the national front do not have the anxiety that affects potential defendants from other parties, we reject the extension of the police powers conferred on the brussels commission's annex under the name of olaf. - firstly because olaf violates the separation of powers, the foundation of western democracy, with officials without legitimacy controlling the representatives of the sovereign. - secondly, because olaf is the thief who controls the gendarme, since the european commission, at the centre of the suspicions of corruption, will in fact control, via olaf, the parliament which should be the controller and not the controlled. - finally, olaf fails to tackle the root causes of corruption, which lie in the removal of national borders allowing drug money, fraud and financial crime to move freely. if we really want to combat the mere symptoms of corruption, while respecting the foundations of legal societies, there are only two ways: either the technical way, by transforming the european court of auditors into a court of jurisdiction and budgetary discipline; or the democratic way, by creating within the european parliament, as in britain and the united states, the equivalent of the british national accounting office (nao) or the american general accounting office (gao). these are two powerful, autonomous control bodies, but within the parliament, with up to 5 000 staff. the expert body exists, but with a link to the representatives of the people who alone have the right to demand an accounting of the use of their tax money.
- the preparations for the next round of international trade negotiations are not satisfactory from a procedural point of view for at least three reasons. firstly, we see, in a familiar process, the european union itself being weakened by its own internal discussions, even before the negotiations begin. for example, the final mandate given by the council on 22 october makes no mention of defending the principle of community preference, which had been retained by the agriculture council of 27 september, which was already only half satisfactory because it forgot the principle of europe's food independence. every step you take, you go down a notch. we could go on and on. so, with regard to our privileged system of importing bananas from overseas, the commission has just made proposals which satisfy the american demands even before the opening of seattle. in all areas it seems that our internal concessions, in order to arrive at a unified european position, declared a priori desirable, lead us to reduce our pretensions before we have even started discussions with our competitors. secondly, the commission has been given a mandate to negotiate globally on a whole range of issues, some of which are community competence, but others, such as services or investment, clearly fall within national competence. it is true that this is a mandate on the framework of the negotiation and not on the outcome of the negotiation itself. nevertheless, without saying so clearly, the council is putting its finger in the wheel which may lead it, if no one stops it, to give the commission a full negotiating mandate and thus, in application of the new article 133.5 of the treaty of amsterdam, to deprive the national parliaments of their power of ultimate ratification, again without clearly saying so, of course. we are drifting in the fog, not knowing exactly when we will cross the fatal line. then we'll be told it's too late. these methods are completely reprehensible. thirdly, we note that despite our requests, the seattle negotiations are going to be launched without a clear, precise and contradictory assessment of the consequences of the uruguay round. we'll go blindly there too. the commission has indeed made a concession on one point, since it is going to carry out an impact assessment on sustainability, i quote, that is to say, on the environmental consequences of liberalisation. that's very good. but this study should have been carried out on many other points, for example the consequences of liberalization, in its present form, on the preservation of cultural and social models. for these three reasons, we cannot approve the opening of the seattle negotiations in these conditions.
- mr president, the green group, european free alliance, abstained on a report which it found a little soft. for us, the aim of this report was to give commissioner lamy a precise negotiating mandate for the cycle which opens in seattle. however, this specific mandate has not been sufficiently affirmed. we would therefore have liked parliament to propose a very political set of demands to the commission, instead of drawing up a more diplomatic report which deplores, emphasizes, gives an opinion but does not give a mandate. the tone of the text is therefore too liberal for us to agree with it, especially since none of our amendments has been adopted. this report, as amended, has major weaknesses in comparison with the trips agreement. there is nothing we agree on about the right to intellectual property related to trade. as regards the ami, which was rejected by the oecd and is returning, a strengthened code of conduct for investment and strict rules in this area are needed, and this also applies to dispute settlement. however, this report contains fundamental principles which we consider to be essential, such as the precautionary principle and the rules on production methods and processes; it particularly emphasises food labelling to ensure the implementation of food security, and the need to adopt a more favourable position towards developing countries. in any event, we shall be watching very closely the way the commission is negotiating, and even if this amended report still seems too liberal in its tone, we greens would be the fiercest defenders of this text if commissioner lamy went below the recommendations made here.
in writing. - the european delegation to the wto negotiations is seen as a defender of europe's interests. it is only the representative of the most powerful industrial and financial groups in the european union, rivals of the american or japanese trusts in the controlled cutting of the planet, but all exclusively concerned with increasing their profits at the expense of the workers of their own countries and the peoples of poor countries. by referring to the 'basic rights of workers' and their 'protection', especially in poor countries, the schwaiger report adds a dose of cynicism to the rest. but where is the protection of workers, especially against the drama of unemployment, even in the richest countries of the european union, those very countries which would have the means to eradicate unemployment if their governments were not primarily concerned with the profit of large companies and the enrichment of their owners and shareholders? the claim that we are interested in the inhumane working conditions and wages in underdeveloped countries is pure hypocrisy. many multinational companies in africa and asia, which employ workers who are barely paid and who have no social protection, have their headquarters in france, germany or england. instead of requiring these multinationals to respect a minimum of social legislation, it will be enough to invite a few ilo officials as observers to the wto negotiations. we will not vote on or amend the report presented, because the capitalist organization of the economy, with or without the wto, is fundamentally unchangeable.
in writing. - the millennium cycle, which will soon begin in the world trade organisation, must be an opportunity for europe - since we are obliged to speak with one voice - not only to show unity throughout the negotiations, but also to show the utmost firmness in the outcome, particularly as regards agriculture and cultural exception. however, if the fifteen have recently adopted a common negotiating policy for the new cycle, which is ambitious, it must be admitted that this basis, which appears to be the lowest common denominator for the member states, will necessarily be developed in the course of the negotiations. there is no doubt that this text of compromise, born of pain, will be the object of numerous american pressures during the negotiations, even though the union is only homogeneous in appearance and does not have a legal arsenal comparable to that held by the united states and capable, if necessary, of deterring the american side. while the organisation of free and fairer world trade must be encouraged and strengthened within a multilateral trading system, it must also ensure that all nations - rich and poor - and i am thinking in particular of african countries - are assured of the benefits that this round of negotiations is supposed to bring. although it is necessary to wait until the end of the negotiation cycle before a substantive assessment can be made of the results obtained, it is still the case, as regards the framework, that the overall result cannot be regarded as entirely negative if the european nations could obtain more binding regulation of the international competition rules. the introduction of universally accepted common minimum standards to prevent anti-competitive behaviour would already represent significant progress. the european union's initial negotiating position, ambitious in its objectives, is not likely to emerge strengthened from a cycle of negotiations which is likely to be prolonged and derailed, in particular because of the predictable attitude of the united states, which will not cease to try to put corners in the mandate given by mr lamy, which represents only a façade unit that poorly conceals the divergences of interests between the fifteen. moreover, the content of the final resolution adopted today by the european parliament contains many points which are unacceptable to france.
in writing. - the debate which has just taken place in this parliament on the wto on the occasion of the schwaiger report has clearly shown that, for europe, the negotiations which are about to begin concern at least as much the future of its social model as that of its trade. similarly, the question for the third world countries is whether they can still escape the grip of the mega-multinationals arising from mega-mergers and be in control of their own development. the problem is not whether we need rules for world trade. on that point, everyone will agree. the question is whether the policies promoted by the wto since its inception are conducive to fair and sustainable development for all regions of the world. i 'll make two observations: first, the liberalisation promoted in previous rounds and the increase in trade volumes have been accompanied by a worsening of global development inequalities. the leap forward was supposed to pull others, but the opposite happened. the african continent's share of world trade is less than 3%. liberal globalisation has proved incapable of providing an answer to the problem of development, let alone of promoting fair and sustainable development. this is why a review of the social and environmental effects of the previous rounds was essential before embarking on a new wave of all-round liberalisation. if it was rejected with such consistency, it was because the balance sheet would have been negative. however, for the european union, the establishment of a shared diagnosis with the third world countries could have been the basis for the alliance we seek to build with them in these negotiations. secondly, the dispute settlement body (dsb), set up within the wto, has demanded that the european union abandon its own standards in such fundamental areas as health and food safety and its policy of cooperation on bananas with the acp countries and the outermost regions. the question now is whether it can be accepted that, step by step, decision by decision, and all on the pretext of settling trade disputes, the esdr will eventually become a kind of world supreme court, imposing its views in all areas on governments and elected parliaments. we would then be witnessing a genuine democratic confiscation. this is why europe must, at the millennium round, promote a different approach to the organisation of world trade and economic exchanges. to do this, it should affirm three main principles: the first is that the objective of this round must be to reduce the development gap between the north and the south. to this end, the rules of the multilateral trading system must take account of differences in situations and resources between countries. free trade, without any other consideration, is the strengthening of the strong and the weakening of the weak. that is why we cannot accept the questioning of the lomé agreements and our policy of cooperation as we have built it up in the lomé agreements with the acp countries, which include 39 of the poorest countries in the world. we must reaffirm the commitments made to them at the recent acp-eu joint assembly. europe must go to seattle with a vision of globalisation that is opposed to that of a unilateral world dominated by a single power. it must promote a vision of a multipolar world and encourage the creation of regional groups which are integrated both economically and politically, as we have been doing for the last 40 years. how can we deny others what we have granted ourselves after the war to rebuild our industry, our agriculture, our economy? the second principle should be to 'confine' the wto to a strictly defined role and to keep out of its sphere of competence those areas which can only be the sovereignty of states and institutions created by citizens because they concern the very identity of each society. public and social services such as education and health, but also those where the safety of users and the collective interest are at stake, such as public transport or air traffic control, culture and artistic creation, cannot all be put on the balance sheet of a trade negotiation. we must reject the race to the total commodification of society. in intellectual property agreements, europe must refuse to patent living things, and it must guarantee that derogations from the general rules of trade for medicines to combat aids and other serious diseases identified by who are maintained. finally, we must defend the principle of a hierarchy of standards. fundamental human rights and the 1948 universal declaration, the ilo (international labour organisation) conventions or those on the environment are of a higher importance than the standards governing trade. we cannot condemn a state for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment, or for refusing to import goods which are proven to be the products of child labour. on the contrary, wto decisions must be open to appeal to the ilo or to the competent un bodies. the imbalance arises from the fact that only multilateral trade agreements have led to the creation of a judicial type of body, whereas neither the environmental conventions nor the ilo conventions have. some of these concerns were taken into account by the rapporteur at the end of the discussions in the committee on industry and foreign trade. unfortunately, during the plenary session the rapporteur and the epp and eldr groups introduced a number of amendments to the text which mitigate its social and environmental requirements. in view of the unfavourable outcome of the amendments tabled by myself and my colleagues from the french socialist delegation and the gue/ngl and greens/efa groups, i have abstained on mr schwaiger's report. but i think one of the major facts on the eve of this new round, and which distinguishes it from the previous ones, is the entry of civil society, ngos and international public opinion into the debate. i think we should welcome this because it is the best guarantee that these issues will not be able to be eliminated during these negotiations. i am sure they will remain at the heart of the european parliament's debates throughout their duration.
in writing. - the new round of negotiations at the world trade organisation, which will open in seattle on 30 november, should be an opportunity to take greater control of trade liberalization. i doubt that's the case. this question concerns our ability - and our real will - to make the wto a regulatory instrument, to move from a globalisation desired by a few and suffered by all, to a truly regulated global trade that benefits the planet as a whole. it is from this doubt that my concern arises: that if we fail to achieve this, we will be condemned to break longstanding commitments to the developing countries, and in particular to the acp countries, to which we have been bound for 20 years by the lomé conventions. at the risk of breaking our good conscience, i would like to mention the example of the banana, where the multinationals (del monte, dole and chiquita) who, with the support of the united states, dump the bananas of slavery on the european market, produced under conditions of food security that are more than doubtful, have succeeded in bringing us to our knees; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's recent statements are not likely to allay this concern: 'the banana war must be stopped because it is poisoning the transatlantic relationship and because the union would send an unfavourable message to the world on the eve of new trade negotiations'. end the war, who can be against? no one, but not at any price, not by unconditional surrender. the same applies to rum, since we have concluded a unilateral agreement with the usa on the entry of white spirits - including rum - which will inevitably lead in the short term to the economic destabilization of the whole of the caribbean! without special vigilance, what will happen tomorrow to sugar, which is a key element in the economic balance of acp countries such as mauritius or a european region such as réunion, which i know well? the reality, i am afraid, is that, despite our excellent and often paternalistic statements, we are about to abandon our policy towards the poorest countries, and particularly the acp countries, and abandon our own producers in the outermost regions. and yet, our ties with these countries are very old. let me say this: they are not just about generosity. for many of our countries, which are in fact the former colonial powers, this is a very strong moral commitment which we must not fail to uphold! that is why, although the resolution put to the vote this morning is acceptable in the light of the general objectives we have set ourselves, thanks in particular to the many amendments tabled by my group's members, i did not vote for it, in order to respect the commitments i made to the voters of the french overseas departments.
in writing. - like all my colleagues, i voted against mr schwaiger's report. as president pasqua said during the general debate in plenary at the beginning of october, and as my colleague georges berthu has just rightly pointed out, it is essential, before embarking on any new round of negotiations, to draw up a clear and precise, objective, and therefore independent and contradictory assessment, in order to understand the economic, social, environmental and food security consequences of the previous uruguay round agreements. but we note that unfortunately the council has just given the commission a negotiating mandate so that it can go to seattle, which contains no mention of such a report. under pressure, we will undertake a study, but it will be very partial, on sustainability, but not on the preservation of our economic and social identities. this lack of balance sheet can be seen as a desire to hide from the eyes of the people of the countries that are members of the wto the very different reality of the effects of deregulation of world trade. during the uruguay round, european agriculture suffered the largest decline in the labour force ever recorded, leading to a real de-structuring of the rural world. a number of developing countries are beginning to suffer from the direct competition between agricultural products from latin america and africa. in the industrial sector, the concentration of certain operators leads to dominant positions on certain markets and small and medium-sized enterprises (especially those in the rural areas of our country) are hit hard by the unfair competition caused by the relocation of certain multinational or even transnational companies. if we affirm the need to defend a certain european agricultural model, we are careful not to define it precisely by community preference, food independence and the protection of public health. it is essential to define rapidly a european food model based on a diversified, traditional and healthy diet, based on mainly european agricultural products. it is necessary to defend the principle of community preference and, by extension, the system of export refunds, including for products 'not in annex 1', that is to say food products derived from european agricultural products whose market price is higher than the world price. a healthy diet implies that the primacy of the precautionary principle is clearly established in the context of these negotiations. this dimension of fair trade based on the absence of qualitative, environmental, social and fiscal dumping, if mentioned at the level of principles, is not affirmed, with all its consequences, as a priority objective to be achieved by european negotiators. the commission believes that the priority objective would be for europeans to prepare for concessions. the commission is already doing this, even before the negotiations are launched, to the detriment of vital european interests. i am very concerned about this attitude of the european commission. we have had a number of conflicts with the us authorities as a result of the uruguay round negotiations. the three main conflicts concerning the banana sector, the production and incorporation of genetically modified organisms and the import of american beef have all just been arbitrated by the commission itself, against the interests of european and acp banana producers, against the interests of european consumers and of course against the interests of our farmers and our farmers. the commission has acted and is acting on these three dossiers as if it wanted no dispute between the european union and the united states when the negotiations are about to begin. it's playing the american game. instead of proclaiming the need for european concessions in a vacuum, the commission should rather strongly affirm the need to correct the shortcomings and errors of the marrakesh agreement, in the light of fundamental social rights, the environment, public health, in the interests of all. but that would be to admit that the commission has badly negotiated the latest gatt agreements, and that is obviously unthinkable. the commission therefore prefers, whether its leader is mr brittan or mr lamy, to outline our positions in advance on the precautionary principle, health and environmental protection and the economic interests of rural areas and, in the banana sector, to disregard the traditional and privileged relations which our countries have with the acp countries in the context of international commitments. privileged: you don't think about it. the adjective will startle mr. lamy!
- mr president, the first draft of the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report on the future intergovernmental conference read as follows: 'considering the abstention rate in the last european elections, which shows a growing dissatisfaction of the citizens with the current functioning of the union, etc.' the institutional committee, no doubt frightened by such an admission, considered it more prudent, by an overwhelming majority, to delete this sentence. and then my group failed to get him reinstated. i find this anecdote significant because it shows the spirit in which this report was prepared. we refuse to see that the more federal europe becomes, the more it is alienated from the peoples and the less affection it inspires. having put this embarrassing fact and many others aside, the commission was more comfortable proposing more federalism, the extension of majority voting in the council and the constitutionalisation of the treaties. the same blindness prevailed when it came to enlargement. it is pretended that the extension of the qualified majority, that is to say the extension of the power of coercion vis-à-vis minority countries, will solve all the problems. that's a very bad idea. already, the limits of standardization have been reached in the europe of the fifteen. we can see this clearly in the case of the british beef embargo and it is unrealistic to think that we can go further with more restrictions in a europe of thirty. two years ago, the amsterdam council had already encountered this problem and had failed to solve it. the next intergovernmental conference will not solve it either if it works on the same basis. we need a europe that is more flexible and more respectful of its peoples. i have set out the principles in a dissenting opinion annexed to the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report, and the europe of nations group has developed the consequences by tabled ing 21 amendments, all of which were unfortunately rejected by the majority of this parliament. but this house will have to come to terms with the impasse in which it finds itself by defending a monolithic europe.
in writing. - we consider that the european institutions represent the interests of big business far more than those of the people in general and of the working people in particular. we will therefore not take a position on enlargement. we are convinced that the future belongs to a europe without frontiers between peoples united from one end of the continent to the other and free from the de facto power of industrial and financial groups, which is a necessary condition for the peoples to have real control over their institutions.
in writing. - we voted against mr pirker's report. basically for three reasons. firstly, because the amendments to the proposed regulation are far too lax. secondly, because the regulation itself scandalously and, to my great shame, at the insistence of my country's socialist, ecological and communist government, excludes the storage of fingerprints of illegal immigrants checked on the territory of the union. finally, because the text entrusts the management of the eurodac system to a handful of commission officials. you have destroyed the internal borders. you have created, by building the europe of brussels, maastricht and amsterdam, a highly insecure area where illegal immigrants, drugs, various forms of trafficking and crime circulate freely and in an unrestricted manner. the measures you are proposing today, not only through the pirker report but also through the reports on drugs or the falsification of travel documents, are paltry in the face of the magnitude of the dangers to which you are exposing european citizens. the only solution is to re-establish controls at the community's internal frontiers; to provide the police services of the member states with the human, financial and material resources to fulfil their mission of protecting honest people; the european parliament must not give the irresponsible people in brussels any power over police, justice, the entry and residence of foreigners.
- mr president, when i was asked to take part in this debate, my first reaction was negative, as i considered that the alarms raised were the result of a millenarian fantasy excessively developed by lobbies which have largely benefited from it, sometimes even by exploiting financially the credulity of their clientele. the fact that i finally agreed to join the resolution which will be put to the vote by our colleagues is because i was able to gauge the real emotions of a part of world public opinion; these concerns, together with the comments of our colleague on the reaction of the japanese government and other international bodies, which are calling on the people to take precautions, to make reservations in anticipation of this announced end of the world, confirm my view that the precautions advocated by our parliament are, in their wisdom, likely to allay fears and can therefore be useful.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to say briefly that my generation was fortunate not to have experienced the massacre of algerians in paris in 1961, not to have lived through the kristallnacht of 9 november 1938 or the beginning of the persecution of the jews in various european countries, and above all, to have experienced the end of apartheid in south africa. if at every stage men have risen up and said: 'never again', it is simply because they are convinced that nothing is more serious than the violation of the physical integrity of individuals. this founding principle of europe is today, it is true, called into question by the application of the death penalty in many places around the world. china, the so-called democratic republic of congo, the united states and iran hold the unfortunate record of being the countries that carry out the death penalty the most. according to amnesty international, 3,500 prisoners are awaiting execution in the united states, where 68 prisoners were executed last year. in these countries, the right to life or death over prisoners is all the more unbearable when we know the ridiculous budgets devoted to prevention policy and social issues. i prefer to think, like victor hugo, that to close a prison, one only needs to open one more school. there is no doubt that the 17 years that mumia abu-jamal has just spent languishing on death row after a travesty of justice are linked to the fact that he is black, to his fight against institutional racism, to the freedom of opinion that this journalist has practiced by having the courage to denounce the corruption that reigns in the ranks of the philadelphia police. similarly, iran, which executed 66 people last year, would have us believe that the dozens of students arrested, the 13 jews, were spies. the international mobilisation, as we have seen, prevented the execution of mumia abu-jamal, scheduled for 2 december. but for now, the execution is only postponed. we must now get it abandoned once and for all. we must expand and intensify the pressure on these countries and strike where it hurts. it is important that european companies refuse to invest in the us states and anywhere else in the world where the death penalty is still applied. the member states of the european union must refuse to extradite any person to a country where it is known that his or her death is scheduled on arrival. today, demanding the immediate and unconditional abolition of the death penalty worldwide is not only a matter of promoting human dignity but also of giving meaning to the universal declaration of human rights. mr president, i am part of that generation which thinks that we do not sign conventions against torture and discrimination just for the sake of it.
- i will vote, for lack of a better one, for the resolution calling for a moratorium on the death penalty, but i consider that not to dare take a stand for the immediate and unconditional abolition of the death penalty is an abdication in the face of barbarism. among the many cases of death sentences, where the sentence is as unjust as its execution would be heinous, i would like to draw attention to the iranian students sentenced to death for their role in the protests last july. these are in addition to the equally vile sentences of 13 iranian jews, not to mention the thousands of past victims of repression. all those threatened with capital punishment for political reasons should be released immediately, as should the many students sentenced to prison terms. and while these convictions are a measure of the regime of oppression and terror that iran is, they are also a measure of what trusts like shell, for example, which has just signed an $800 million contract with the iranian government, are and are worth. it also shows the value of the human rights declarations of the heads of state and government of europe, which were given to the president of iran in great pomp so that other trusts could sign other similarly lucrative contracts. finally, while i am glad that mumia abu-jamal, a victim of the manipulations of a racist and corrupt police, has not been executed, i consider that the fight is not over and that it is his release that we must obtain. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, it is with sadness that the union for a europe of nations group will vote the joint motion for a resolution. i say this with sadness, because today we are only seeing the results of our constant hypocrisy in the kosovo affair, not to mention our blindness and even our cowardice. hypocrisy, because we knew that if we chose war last spring, that is to say, if we turned our back on the balance, the only condition for peace between the warring parties, we would inevitably cause the endless outbreaks of violence that we are witnessing today. by travelling the world to support a terrorist gang, the kla, which has unfortunately been supported for a long time by a member country, since it was based for many years in frankfurt, we have given a blank check to the reign of terror. we knew that our activism had nothing to do with human rights, since it promoted chained terror, to the point that we are no longer simply witnesses, more or less citizens, of a new ethnic cleansing: we europeans, and in particular the kouchner mission, are accomplices, if not, in the end, organizers. to hypocrisy is added blindness, for we have confused the notions of nation and ethnicity, the national principle and the ethnic principle. a nation, it should be remembered, is the opposite of an ethnic group. we regret to have to remind you of these obvious facts, but europe has lost sight of the national principle to such an extent that we have to keep repeating it. a nation is the transcendence of ethnicities into a pluralist whole which erases the primary belongings of race or blood, or at least relegates them to the private sphere, for the benefit of a political construction, what we have called in france for two centuries, and perhaps even for much more than two centuries, the republic. let us destroy the nations, which could have become, over time, the whole of yugoslavia, especially if europe had opened its arms to it earlier, let us destroy the nations, and we will have nothing but a rampage of ethnic groups, not to mention gangs, that is to say, settling accounts and, finally, war in europe. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. and then blindness is joined to cowardice. we know that the europeans only fought this war because they were weak in relation to the united states, that is to say, in relation to an empire which tolerated no competition on the surface of the planet and which set out to divide europe in order to rule over it everywhere. that is one of the goals of the united states in this case, and we have followed them out of weakness and cowardice. we can only look at the ruins, mrs pack, which are only the first results, alas, of a federal conception of europe which, starting from the proud foundation of serbia, which has so often stood out valiantly in history, is slowly leading the peoples of europe to disorder, discord and, i repeat, to war.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are called upon to discuss the situation in rwanda. yesterday we denounced genocide and human rights violations. today, indeed, we can only be indignant at the release of jean bosco barayagwiza, allegedly for technical reasons, who is one of the most important actors in inciting genocide. this release is, in fact, quite symptomatic of the lack of will to take stock of the genocide and, above all, of the will to pass over in silence the involvement of european countries, in particular france, whose recent parliamentary inquiry has highlighted complicity, at best passive. it should also be noted that the situation in rwanda, however worrying it may be, is causing instability in neighbouring countries in particular, and the situation in the congo, from this point of view, is quite dramatic. today, the european parliament must make it clear that to ensure stability in the region, the conditions for a peace based on justice and the prosecution of those responsible for ethnic violence must be created. we therefore ask the icc to reconsider its position on the release of mr barayagwiza, given the importance of the charges against him, otherwise the people of rwanda may feel wronged and the ethnic clashes may flare up again. we also call on the rwandan government to resume relations with the icc. that is why we must put an end to the impunity in these countries.
in writing. - as we are preparing to vote on this resolution on the rights of the child, i would like to express the importance i attach to this act. this vote is unlike any other i have taken during this part-session. it brings me back to the reasons that led me to do politics, which can be summed up in this: to improve as much as possible the daily lives of human beings! this may seem presumptuous, given the scale of the task, but it is my deep conviction. and although i know that this vote will not radically change the tragic situation in which thousands of children are living here and elsewhere, it will be a sign of the political will of our european parliament to make things happen! to say that it is intolerable that children are forced to work instead of going to school, that children do not eat to their full, that children are sold as commodities, that children are victims of physical or moral violence by adults, is already a great step which must of course be reflected in our political actions and in our daily lives! let us be responsible men and women! the convention, whose anniversary we are celebrating today, has made a great deal of progress in placing the child at the heart of the debate! children are human beings, they are subject to the law. we must respect them, protect them, educate them, love them!
in writing. - under the pretext of tackling fundamentalist terrorism, the russian leadership is waging an abject war in chechnya. the russian army is primarily targeting the civilian population, a growing proportion of whom are forced to flee to neighbouring regions and are crowded into inhuman conditions. it is the civilian population that is suffering the consequences of the destruction of towns, villages and infrastructure in an already very poor country. the war is also criminal for the russian population itself. thousands of young people are forced to fight a dirty war that will not do them any good, or their parents and elders. while the opening up to the capitalist economy has resulted in a fall in production and a considerable impoverishment of the majority of the population, significant sums are being swallowed up in the war effort, not to mention the cost of corruption that goes with it. we denounce the russian leaders responsible for this war, but we also denounce those in the western world who are content with a quiet rebuke, while supporting yeltsin and his clan, who are concerned about protecting them. by bombing towns and villages in chechnya, the russian army is doing what western armies did a few months ago when they bombed serbia and kosovo. the crimes of some do not excuse those of others, but they reveal their deepest conspiracy to the detriment of the people. that is the meaning of our abstention.
- the minutes of yesterday's meeting have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- we will check all language versions and if there is an error, it will of course be corrected.
- it will be corrected accordingly, mr. poos.
- yes, mr. posselt, i take note of your comment and i congratulate the brave men who are here this morning.
- i'll check the regulations to see if the color and size of the jacket is indicated and i assure you i'll comply from now on.
- the minutes of yesterday, mr president. yesterday, before the vote on the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report, i protested because the amendments i had tabled in french were not identical to the french version officially published. so it was not a translation problem. my amendments had actually been modified by an anonymous proofreader. however, i read in the minutes that the president replied to mr berthu that two of these amendments were not well worded. it seems i've written my amendments wrong. no, my amendments were very well written and an anonymous proofreader took it upon himself to alter the text. i absolutely object, it's a matter of principle. parliament officials do not have to amend amendments tabled by members.
- i'll take note of your comment and correct it as you wish. are there any other observations ? (the minutes were approved) deposit of documents - hughes procedure - submission of committees - budgetary timetable - communication of common positions of the council: see minutes.
- are there any objections to the consideration of this oral amendment ? (parliament adopted the resolution)
- does the commission want to intervene ?
commission - (fi) mr president, i will pass on mr seppänen's remarks to my colleague and i promise that we will discuss this matter.
- at the request of the rapporteur, the amendments are therefore withdrawn. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- (it) mr president, i should like to explain the reasons for my vote in favour of the newton dunn report. i would like to stress that the provisions of the report are part of the fight against illegal immigration and against the many acts of crime committed by many illegal immigrants, willingly or unwillingly, at the expense of all citizens of the european union and in particular older citizens. i would like to draw attention to the following point: it would be appropriate that all the expenditure, all the people, all the means used in the past to control the borders within the european union - between italy and france, france and germany, and so on, namely between the european states which now share a common border - should now be used to control the external borders of the european union, to combat crime and illegal immigration more effectively.
- mr president, your remarks will of course be noted, but the services of the presidency inform me that the deadlines, in principle, were respected, that all the language versions were distributed in time, but we did take note of your speech.
- all this is noted, sir.
- doc. a5-0053/1999 by mr medina ortega, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) amending regulation (eec) no 1911/1991 on the application of the provisions of community law to the canary islands (com (99) 0226 - c5-0127/1999 - 19990111 (cns))
- commissioner liikanen, for several years now i have been dealing with the issues and questions concerning industry and shipbuilding, first in the committee on economic affairs and now in the committee on industry. in particular, over the past three years, i have repeatedly raised concerns with the commission about distortions of competition at world level, aggravated by the fact that europe has always imposed on itself a rigorous approach that our competitors have not known. i have often received, from the commissioners and your services, requests not to receive. the commission seems to have become aware of the situation today and i welcome this, because, although we can regret the thousands and thousands of european jobs that have been eliminated in the meantime, as we say in french: "better late than never". today, it seems to me that it is no longer useful to go back to the past and that is why, this morning, i will ask you some specific questions about the future, which do not just concern korea. the first question concerns the united states. i have learned that an american shipyard - which had not built ships for more than forty years - has received an order for two cruise ships to serve the hawaiian islands, where the us law reserves ships for domestic transport to american shipyards. what are you going to do ? what does the european union intend to do to open up the american market to our products in this field? my second question is this: if my information is correct, a part of the wages of the workers assigned to the construction of these liners is paid by the united states navy, in order to preserve the shipbuilding capacity. what do you intend to do, commissioner, about this american aid which does not seem to me to be compatible with the rules in force in this field? my third question concerns korea. since 1997, korean-gaz has restricted the invitation to tender for the construction of lng carriers to korean yards only, which is also, in my view, a violation of the international rules on the opening of public procurement. i ask you again, commissioner, what are you going to do to open up the korean market and fight these decisions which i do not think are legal? my fourth question relates to what you were saying in your opening statement. we have learned, or more precisely, we have received confirmation, that the european commission has in its possession the first part of the report on the monitoring of the world market, drawn up in accordance with the council regulation you have mentioned. this report shows a practice of distortion of competition by korean manufacturers, ranging from 13 to 14% of korean cost prices. as you have mentioned, the question is who pays for the differences between korean cost and sales prices which the commission has found? the answer seems obvious. this is the korean banking system, which is also supported by the imf and the korean state. so far, despite several reminders in this area as the issue is not new, the european union and the commission have done nothing effective to put an end to these indirect subsidies in korea. what concrete steps do you intend to take today to act quickly? i would like to conclude, commissioner, by saying that it is true that european shipbuilding is still receiving aid. she gets little, but she gets a lot. however, it is expected that the ordering aid will end in december next year and i do not think that we can afford to let this go. that is why i ask you, commissioner, to finally draw up a trade policy worthy of the name. i therefore suggest that you do not continue to say or have it said that we do not have the instruments to better defend the employment of our european citizens in this sector. it is therefore no longer possible to allow europe to impose on itself constraints which our industrial competitors in the world, in the shipping sector and in many others, do not have. it is therefore time to break with the laissez-faire that has characterised the british era. are europe and the new commission ready to do so today? i would like to ask you again, commissioner liikanen.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of shipbuilding must of course be approached in a global way, taking into account the different segments of production equipment. member states have recognised expertise in the field of military shipbuilding. this is an area in which the commission obviously does not have to intervene but in which it is desirable that intergovernmental cooperation should be developed more than it is at present so that the member states can maintain and increase their expertise, their independence, at affordable costs. it would be very dangerous to divest from this area and we cannot but regret the recent failures, notably in the horizon frigate programme and the abrupt withdrawal of some partners, which put the overall balance of the programme in question. as far as passenger and merchant shipping are concerned, which are highly competitive and labour-intensive segments, we must also preserve and develop the remarkable expertise and high-performance capabilities of the member states and not let them go outside europe. as regards heavy-duty units affected by significant technological change, member states must be able to pursue a policy favouring the technological conversion of their shipyards, so that they can occupy market segments which allow the exploitation of their know-how. any closure of a shipyard constitutes an irreparable loss of expertise for the member states and the union. the latter must not, therefore, in the name of inappropriate interpretations of free competition, prevent the states from encouraging the reorientation of production with a view to preserving both know-how and employment. in this respect, the example of the atlantic shipyards, whose brilliant relaunch after a period of crisis was particularly spectacular, and the role played by the french state in this development, must be considered. it will be necessary to ensure very carefully that the forthcoming wto negotiations will make it possible to put an end to the unacceptable dumping practices of a number of countries and will not endanger a sector which is subject to intense global competition, as it is a major employer of labour which is difficult to automate and therefore subject to strong pressure for relocations to countries where the cost of labour is much lower than in the european union. i would like to turn to the question of the construction of fishing boats. this sector, which may appear to be rather marginal from an overall point of view, nevertheless plays a vital role in the balance of the economic and social fabric of our maritime coastal areas. the european community has a key role to play in this area. the sector is almost entirely dependent on the common fisheries policy. for two years now, the european commission has been freezing community aid for the construction of new ships and, consequently, that of the member states, until the objectives set out in the multiannual guidance plans for ship destruction have been achieved. this blockade, with its serious consequences, was compounded by the refusal to take account of the sale of vessels to third countries in calculating the reduction in the capacity of the european fleet. by only taking into account shipwrecks, the commission is thus causing a significant loss of income to the detriment of fishermen and shipowners. the commission is also now proposing to prohibit any renewal on segments which are not progressing as fast as others and to require that 30% more capacity be found and destroyed than the renewed vessel on the updated segments of the pop targets. this situation and these proposals are causing a worrying ageing of the european fishing fleet, discouraging young people from investing, causing a significant loss of market for the specialist shipyard sector, dangerously weakening some of them, and placing our seafarers on board at a clear risk in terms of safety. we hope that the council will be able to convince the commission that it is right and that it will make the proposals made by the european parliament in its time, after close consultation with the member states, in the report by our colleague arias cañete, prevail. when a shipyard disappears, it is a particularly valuable know-how, accumulated over time, linked to the maritime history of a region, that disappears with it. we must do everything we can to avoid it. the commission must also be consistent. after encouraging the construction of driftnets because of the selectivity of the driftnet, it has, under pressure from certain lobbies and certain member states, banned the same driftnet in certain seas only, without scientific basis and in a discriminatory manner. it recommended experimentation with alternative engines, but did not provide for any specific financial component or a specific kilowatt envelope for the construction of ships adapted to the new regulations it had issued. however, after analysing the results of the first experiments, it was confirmed that the current trawlers could not be adapted to the new devices and that new boats would have to be built. i would therefore be grateful if you, commissioner liikanen, would point out to mr fischler that shipowners have a hard time understanding such logic, or rather such a lack of logic. the commission will obviously have to make the necessary arrangements to enable the shipbuilding involved in the change in regulations it has decided to introduce. in conclusion, mr president, commissioner, if the european commission really wants to contribute to the growth of the shipbuilding industry in europe, it needs only to defend clearly the principle of fair trade in the wto negotiations, to allow member states the freedom to intervene directly in this strategic sector to technologically reorient certain shipyards to market segments with potential, to promote cooperation between companies to help improve the overall efficiency of each of our shipyard types, and finally, within the framework of the common fisheries policy, to take the necessary decisions to allow a controlled renewal of our fishing fleet, the sustainability of the expertise of our shipyards and the vitality of our maritime regions dependent on fishing.
commission. - mr president, i want to thank you for the depth and seriousness of today's debate. as has been said, the problem of shipbuilding has a major impact on public opinion. the opening of the world trade negotiations in seattle is fast approaching and we urgently need to be able to rely on the public if we are to move forward on the path of globalisation. however, if the public believes that the rules apply to some and not to others, these negotiations may be seriously disrupted. there have been discussions on this subject in the commission and we take them very seriously, if only for that reason. as has been stressed in this house, we want free but fair trade. i will answer the questions raised which fall directly within my competence. i will pass on the remaining questions to my colleagues. mr caudron asked what the situation was at this stage. i have to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative of presenting this report to the council. having a strong shipping industry is extremely important for us in europe. we will not accept the application of aggressive measures which could lead to its destruction. we also made it clear to the koreans that it was important for their government to support meetings between the various industries concerned. as regards shipbuilding and the oecd, it is now intended to organise a meeting between the two industries to analyse the situation and draw the necessary conclusions. the sectors involved need to meet, but it is also necessary that public opinion on both sides should support the conclusions that will emerge from this december meeting. i am working closely with my colleague mr lamy on this. secondly, on the question of the imf and the world bank, i was in contact this week with the president of the industry council who promised me that he would address the problem so that the ecofin council, which meets in november, could discuss the role of the imf and the world bank in this area. the finance ministers of the member countries are in some ways the counterparts of the imf and the world bank, so it is vital that they consider without delay the potential negative impact on the shipbuilding market of imf and world bank support. they will have to examine carefully whether or not the support given to the shipbuilding industry and to ship owners has led to a distortion in the international market. when these problems have been studied by the finance ministers, the ecofin council, the imf and the world bank on the one hand, and by the oecd on the other, we will then assess the situation and take the additional measures that are necessary. the shipbuilding industry in the united states is subject to the famous jones act. this legislation provides that transport between american ports is exclusively for ships built in the united states. the jones act has been the subject of a derogation under gatt. the only way is for the commission and the member states to put the matter on the wto agenda. this possibility has been considered before but has met with strong resistance from the americans.
- i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on friday 19 november 1999.
- my dear colleagues, many of you are new colleagues. but i think that all the former colleagues here have a very strong memory of carmen diez de rivera icaza. i have to tell you today that, as you remember, she resigned, fought very courageously against the disease, and she passed away yesterday. you know she was a wonderful colleague, an enemy of conformity and a colleague who fought for all noble causes, with the passion and bright smile that you knew her for. if you will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, i will observe a minute's silence for her and think very, very hard of carmen. (the house adopted the resolution)
- mrs doyle, i thank you for this speech and i must tell you that i have allowed myself to anticipate your wish and, on behalf of the european parliament, that i have already written to all the leaders of the main parties in northern ireland to express our admiration for what they have achieved and to wish them our best and warmest wishes for the successful continuation of the peace process.
- mr efthymiou, i can promise you that we will look at this very closely and that, if necessary, we will correct it.
- thank you, colleague. we really can't start a debate. as you can see, these motions are now being debated.
- no, really, i don't think that would be wise. this is not a debate on the issue. you've already spoken a minute. we can't go on like this, it's not possible. this is not a debate on our agenda.
- i agree with you all the more, mr poettering, because in addition to that i have a number of information to give you, delegations to greet and all this will take a lot of time.
- madam president, i disagree with the honourable member, but on one point he is right. when three or four people are allowed to express an opinion, the democratic minimum would be to give the floor to another opinion, even if we do not agree. it is not possible to allow the representative of a large group to speak for three minutes and not to give the floor to a representative of a small group, even if we do not agree, and even if what he is going to say hurts.
- mr cohn-bendit, that is the problem, and you know it, with procedural motions. when a member asks to speak on a procedural motion, which is not always the case - and i think that may have happened to you too - the president has difficulty imagining what the member is going to say. and i can't start a debate with you. at that point all groups should have a say, absolutely all groups.
- i certainly will, mr perry. i did indeed sign this letter today. a draft has been drawn up to this end. it's being finalized. i think it will be submitted to the bureau of the european parliament for approval in december. i can certainly give you satisfaction. the minutes were adopted: see minutes.
- i would like to welcome to the public gallery all the speakers of the parliaments of the 12 countries applying for membership of the european union. (applause) they have come to take part in the eighth meeting between the presidents of the national parliaments of the candidate countries and our european parliament. these meetings were initiated by my predecessors klaus hänsch and josé maria gil-robles. we worked very hard yesterday and they will be leaving us in a few moments to continue the work, extremely fruitful work towards the common objective we are pursuing, which is the reunification of the great european family. that is why i wanted to greet them very warmly. we also have a delegation from the estonian parliament, led by its president, mr tunne kelam, and i would like to stress the role played by the joint parliamentary committee in the ongoing negotiations which must lead, here too, to accession to the european union. i greet you very warmly. (applause) i would like to thank
- ladies and gentlemen, i should like to inform you that the court of first instance of the european communities has just issued an order on 25 november, which, in the context of the case between mr martinez and mr de gaulle in the european parliament, closes for the time being the interim procedure which was also initiated by these ladies. i hereby inform you that the president of the court of first instance is ordering the suspension of the operation of the european parliament's act of 14 september 1999 by which parliament adopted the interpretation of rule 29 of its rules of procedure proposed by the committee on constitutional affairs. following this order, the technical group of independent members (mixed group) is considered to exist and to be treated in the same way as other political groups in all respects: in terms of parliamentary activity, the group has all the rights immediately granted to duly constituted political groups by the rules of procedure and, both administratively and financially, it is entitled to the staff necessary for its operation and to the appropriations allocated to political groups according to the existing distribution scales. i should like to say that the bureau of parliament took the necessary steps this morning to ensure that the provisions of the above-mentioned order were properly applied. it is clear, and i would point out, that these provisions are provisional until the court has had an opportunity to rule on the substance of the case. the bureau also considered it useful to ask its committee on legal affairs and the internal market whether it would be appropriate to bring an appeal to the court of justice on this matter.
- one last piece of information. mrs maj britt theorin, the chair of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, has taken the initiative, which i personally find quite sympathetic, of sending a letter to all our male colleagues to encourage them to wear a white ribbon as a sign of their public commitment not to commit violence or to condone or silence violence against women. i think we can very warmly encourage this initiative. documents received: see minutes.
- on the agenda, i have several requests for amendment. as regards wednesday: first of all, mr karlsson, who is to present the annual report of the court of auditors, must leave us at 7 p.m. i would suggest, ladies and gentlemen, that this item be placed on the agenda so that it can be presented immediately after the declaration on human rights. (parliament agreed to the proposal) the report by mr di pietro, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, must be withdrawn from the agenda as it has not yet been adopted in committee, which does not have all the language versions. as regards thursday: the committee on legal affairs and the internal market is calling for the recommendation for second reading on the customs 2000 programme to be tabled tomorrow morning. the rapporteur is mr moraes. i would point out that this recommendation was adopted and tabled yesterday and is currently on the agenda for wednesday 14 december in strasbourg. so we would put it on the agenda and the group of the european socialists and the liberal group are proposing that this recommendation be dealt with without debate and put on the agenda at the time of the votes tomorrow, thursday.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on safeguarding the current structures of sport and maintaining the social function of sport in community frameworks, the community support plan for the fight against doping in sport, and the commission's participation in the world anti-doping agency.
commission - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment for sport in europe because it is the moment when sport is put on the agenda. why is he on the agenda? simply because it is a citizen's fact. europe is responsible to its citizens and must therefore look after what is good in sport, preserve it and try to solve the problems that arise. you may recall that in the first speech that president prodi made to this house he spoke of the fact that the new commission wants to have a special relationship with the citizens, and in this context he stressed the importance of fighting the scourge of doping. well, madam president, that is done: today the first stone is being laid for a building which will be built so that fair play can once again be part of sport. the fight against doping will be carried out in two stages. first, the commission helped to set up the world anti-doping agency. it wasn't easy, to say the least. it was very complicated, but we fought hard and finally got there. i was given a mandate by the commission to negotiate with the council and the president of the international olympic committee, mr samaranche, to ensure that this new anti-doping agency is established in a balanced way. what balance ? first, it must be transparent and independent. secondly, it must be shared, i.e. divided between the world of sport on the one hand and the world of governments on the other. thirdly, all its members worldwide must make a solemn commitment to implement, each in its own field, the decisions taken by the agency. secondly, this agency must, of course, draw up the list of prohibited products, monitor laboratories, set up control systems, establish non-competitive controls, take action, that is to say, fight the mafias that trade in prohibited products, but also take action to prevent young people from dissociating themselves psychologically and actively from the scourge of doping. madam president, i can tell you that both the council and the commission have been heard by the ioc officials. the european demands were written down word for word in the statutes of the new agency and on 10 november the statutes were signed. we will be represented on the agency's board of directors by two people in the future. similarly, there will be two people for the council of europe. the council of europe had asked us to negotiate on its behalf. we have therefore negotiated not only for the union but also for the council of europe. the agency was created thanks to the efforts of europeans. it is no longer up to us whether or not she succeeds in her mission, madam president, because we will be two of some 30 or 40 partners. we must all fight together, laying the foundations for an anti-doping campaign. we'll have done our best to make the first step possible. the other steps will have to be taken in conjunction with our partners at the global level. since we do not have the full latitude to make this world agency a success - we will do everything we can to make it so, of course, but others must follow us - we have decided to work on a european action plan against doping at the same time, and this time we will have full latitude to fulfil our obligations. this action plan was decided this morning by the commission, and this in a symbiosis between several commissioners, each responsible in his own field. the commissioner responsible for research will put the research programmes of the fifth framework programme, and other possibilities, at the service of the fight against doping, whether fundamental or applied research, to strengthen all the means of this fight. the commissioner responsible for education and youth will make the socrates, leonardo and youth programmes available for training, for cooperation between young people, so that the fight against doping becomes a reality for europe's young people. the commissioner responsible for health issues will ensure that existing directives, for example on the labelling of medicinal products for human use, are also developed in the anti-doping direction. and he promised to submit a recommendation which would cover all the issues concerning public health, the health of young athletes, the health of athletes in general, for a broad concerted action by the member states in the fight against doping. and then, of course, there is also the law enforcement aspect, and here the commissioner responsible for the third pillar, that is the internal policy, will make available the plans and programmes that already exist to raise awareness of the law enforcement and judicial authorities in the fight against doping. madam president, you understand that, on both these levels, the global and the european level, from next year onwards we will make the fight against doping a spearhead of our sporting policy. and then there's the secondary. at the vienna summit, governments asked us to present a document on sport as a social element, social sport, for the helsinki summit. and your parliament, i think it was on 17 december last year, adopted a resolution along the same lines. we are fulfilling our mandate today, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, because the commission has decided to present a plan for a communication on safeguarding the existing structures of sport and on maintaining the social function of sport in the community framework. to be clear, the commission and the union have no legal basis to start making regulations. we won't do it, because we don't have the authority. but we will use, in all the political areas where we have a legal basis, the existing means to operate in favour of sport. let me give you a very concrete example. in the structural funds, a good part of the money can be allocated to projects which are in favour of sport. but there is also something else, a new approach to the citizen. the commission does not consider itself to be sitting in its ivory tower, making up regulations which it imposes on the good people. no, i'm not going to. we believe that our role is to find a consensus between those in the member states who have political responsibility and those in the sports world who have the responsibility of making the sports world work. we will all sit down together, we will discuss, we will listen, we will find out what is wrong and together we will propose solutions which will respect the autonomy of sports federations and the subsidiarity which is being practised in our 15 member states. until then, we will look for what in european legislation can promote sport and what can be a hindrance. i take the competition rules as an example, to be specific: some practices have nothing to do with the rules in this area. for example, a football team with 11 players has nothing to do with competition. it is an element that is completely outside the competition. there are also practices which are in principle prohibited by the competition rules. i will give you another concrete example: if, during a major championship, tickets for the stadium are sold only to nationals and are refused to non-nationals, other european citizens, it is contrary to the rules of competition, so we must take action. however, where there is an apparent conflict about the competition rules, but the sports federations commit themselves in their action to use the funds collected for education and social action in sport, then certain practices may be exempt from the competition rules. i will give you a very concrete example. some federations have so far sold audiovisual rights collectively. well, if this monopoly action is only for trade, it clearly falls under the heading of trade and business. but if the money raised is distributed to clubs which provide education and training for young people, the action of collective interest allows an exemption from the competition rule. i have told you in a few words how we will act in the future in the new sports policy we will be introducing. from next year onwards, there will be a broad consultation with all federations, big and small, and with the political leaders in our member countries, to see together how to 'regulate', not to draw up new rules, but to put up barriers and safeguards so that all this becomes clear. and that we work together in the interests of our young people, in the interests of fair play in sport, in the interests of sport's commitment to society, its fight against racism, xenophobia, and so that sport is positive, friendly, as we all want it to be, but as, unfortunately, today, it is very often lacking. (applause) i would like to thank
- i'd like to ask the commissioner a question. to combat doping, there is one thing we must do as the european union, and that is to fight against the hyper-commercialisation of sport which has led to a tripling of competitions. that's the reason for the doping. as long as the tour de france is this long, as long as the giro d'italia is this long, as long as there are three matches a week in the professional football teams, we will have doping. until we regulate sport and the number of competitions, we will have doping. if we do not do our duty to develop a european directive for the protection of athletes, including professional athletes, we will not be able to combat the roots and causes of doping. (applause) i would like to thank
commission. - i have appealed to the european parliament to help me, all the sportsmen who are members of this house, to make a real sport policy that is sustainable, that is realistic, that does something. and of course, if we have great champions in this house, and we do, i thank them in advance for helping me. i understand the frustration of not being able to do more. and believe me, i'm the first one frustrated, because if i had a legal basis, i could have asked for a budget, i could have, with you, gone ahead, made programs for our youth, made programs for our athletes. unfortunately, i don't have the legal basis. and without that legal basis, i won't have a budget line. so i'm forced to imagine, to innovate, to find sources other than direct sources. this is why our anti-doping plan envisages bringing together all the policies that, from far and near, can help us to combat the scourge. i have spoken about research, health, education, the third pillar. i hope that we can find a way out of this impasse, and if parliament succeeds in persuading the governments of the fifteen to include in the intergovernmental conference an article in the treaty which will enable us to have a genuine sports policy, i shall be the first to be happy and the first to applaud. (applause) i would like to thank
- i think we can thank the commissioner and her colleagues. the debate is closed.
- the agenda calls for statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council in helsinki on 10 and 11 december. without further ado, i give the floor to the president-in-office of the council, mrs halonen.
- mr president, the european council in helsinki on 10 and 11 december will launch the next intergovernmental conference to revise the treaty with a view to enlargement, but it seems to be setting a minimalist agenda, limited to or roughly confined to the three points left open by the treaty of amsterdam: the composition of the commission, the weighting of votes in the council, the new extension of majority decisions. we believe that this agenda will not help at all to solve the problems of the union in the face of enlargement, which may therefore be tackled in the worst institutional conditions. we certainly understand the council's disgust at the commission's shameless attempts in recent months to push through, along the lines of the dehaene report, the idea of a further major federalist leap. but on the other hand, the council is accepting the inclusion on the agenda of a similar proposal, the extension of majority voting, which was not even provided for in the amsterdam protocol on the institutions, but which was only included in an annexed declaration by three member states. this proposal, inspired by the idea of a uniform and unifying europe, is by no means the solution to make a europe of 27 or more members work. in our view, if the council really wants to do something new, it should both reject the commission's proposals and move beyond the amsterdam backlog. it should put a single issue on the negotiating table, decision-making in an enlarged union, a single issue which implies dealing together, in an inseparable way, with three logically linked consequences: qualified majority voting in certain cases, the officialisation of the luxembourg compromise for all cases and the liberalisation of differentiated cooperation. this means thinking about what really unites us, ladies and gentlemen, without blindly clinging to the taboo of the acquis communautaire, and thinking about how common institutions can function in a differentiated union. if we do not make this conversion effort, if we cling to rigid conceptions like oysters to their rock, well, mr president, either enlargement will be missed or the union will be swept away, of course.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i find it very regrettable that the intergovernmental conference does not take account of certain essential elements concerning the area of security, freedom and justice, since one cannot be done at the expense of the other. i also regret that our joint motion for a resolution does not mention the problems of eurodac, even though the council has just announced, in contradiction to the treaties, that this body should remain purely intergovernmental. this excludes parliament and the court of justice from any control over this matter. similarly, in view of the proliferation of data-filing systems (europol, eurodac), the european parliament should have reiterated its call for an independent commission on information technology and freedoms to be set up to safeguard our individual freedoms, in addition to democratic and judicial control. citizenship is also the great absent from this text. it is, however, a matter of the utmost importance, a key element in the negotiations on the charter of fundamental rights, on the one hand, and on the constitutionalisation of the union, on the other. at a time of enlargement of the union, it is this citizenship that must be at the heart of our european project to implement human and sustainable development. in conclusion, i think we must realize that a text so pale and dull is not likely to satisfy the citizens of the union. we must be careful not to stray too far from their aspirations if we are to build a more just, more united and more democratic europe.
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i too would like to welcome this first annual report of the european union on human rights. it is true that in the past there have been documents from the commission and many reports from our parliament, but this is the first time that the council of ministers has sent us a text of this kind. this is a welcome sign of concern for transparency and i hope it will improve the information available to civil society on the concrete actions carried out between june 1998 and june 1999 and on the instruments and means available to the union. the only criticism i have is that this report is probably too optimistic. the shortcomings, the shadowy areas are hardly mentioned. but the publication of this document encourages me to look to the near future, to the drafting of a charter of fundamental rights for the european union. this project, which is to be included in the igc's work and which could be completed by the end of 2000, is of great importance for the union, for all those who live on union soil and for the applicant countries. but today we have no guarantee that the text will live up to expectations. in particular, it is to be feared that the european council and the council of ministers have very limited ambitions, namely to draft a simple declaration without legal force, without binding force. if that were to happen, the european union would lose all credibility with itself and the world. in addition, there is a concern that there may be competition, or even contradiction, between this future charter and the texts which exist with unquestionable force. i am, of course, referring to the european convention on human rights of the council of europe. i hope, madam president-in-office, that the helsinki summit will reassure us on all these points. you know these questions admirably well yourself.
- mr president, in general terms, no one here dares to oppose the respect for human rights. that is why i propose that we move from talk to action. what is the situation with the right to work in a europe with 18 million unemployed and 50 million poor? where is the right to housing, health care or education when millions of people are deprived of it? what is the situation with the right of asylum and freedom of movement when countries such as belgium are expelling gypsies, or, just yesterday, some 15 nigerians? the same applies to my country, france, which refuses to regularize tens of thousands of undocumented migrants, often kept in detention centres, or which extradits basque refugees? where is the right to life when european armies agree to participate in the bombing of civilian populations in serbia or kosovo ? what about the member states which amnesty international has called upon to act with impunity in violation of article 5 of the universal declaration of human rights, which prohibits torture and ill-treatment? and finally, where are human rights when we allow, as we do today, the financial markets to license, exclude and pollute, and all in the name of profit and profitability?
mr president, on the occasion of the presentation of this voluminous report on human rights, i shall mention the constant violations of these rights committed on the basis of stalinist legislation against intellectuals of all specialties who dare to express critical or simply independent opinions on the history of the last world war, whose concentration drama increasingly obnubiles the media, education, the press, in the service of all other interests than the sole defence of the memory of the victims. there are thousands of historians, sociologists, researchers, experts and citizens in europe who are being prosecuted, persecuted, harassed and condemned for the sole crime of freely examining the ever-changing, but sometimes delusional, dogmas which are being imposed on them by authors who are paid and who enjoy all the official indulgences. in my own city of lyon, a young historian, who was destitute and whom i did not know, mr plantin, was convicted for the sole crime of having mentioned, in a bibliography, in a scholarly journal which he edited, works correcting historical errors which no serious historian, no matter what his position, no longer subscribes to. he was arrested, his computer was confiscated, each of the usual associations, suing against him, extorted heavy damages. his former university professors had to apologize, with a disgusting cowardice, for the degrees they had awarded him. the printer, a rural craftsman, was also convicted. the law on publications corrupting the youth, which could be applied in other fields, was invoked against him, as was the french communist gayssot law, which obliged, for example, the germans to continue to be blamed for the massacre of thousands of polish officers in katyn, which was admitted by the soviets. the lyon magistrates who handed down such judgments were thus involved in a veritable witch trial. this is a matter which should be dealt with by this parliament, which claims to be the guardian of the right of expression and of public freedoms.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, following the report published last year on turkey by our colleagues macmillan scott and swoboda, and the resolution of our parliament of 6 october last which concluded that it was important to deepen the european strategy for that country, our assembly should be able to adopt tomorrow two proposals for parliament and council regulations on the implementation of measures aimed respectively at: the first, the economic and social development of turkey, the second, the deepening of the customs union between the european community and turkey. the first involves the financing over the next three years of a total of eur 135 million based on article 130 of the treaty on european union and requiring the implementation of a codecision procedure, while the second, which provides for the commitment of eur 15 million over the same period, could be the subject of a simple consultation procedure. the union is thus preparing to resume economic aid decided in march 1995 under the agreements on the customs union, which has since been blocked because of the lack of unanimity in the council. i shall not go into the reasons for this deadlock, in which the crisis in the aegean played a leading role but in which european concerns in the essential areas of respect for human rights and the protection of minorities were also taken very seriously. in this respect, the forum which our parliament has asked to be set up should have an important role to play; the commission will be able to build on the existing structures, in particular within the economic and social committee of the european community. the proposals for regulations which we are now discussing, ladies and gentlemen, will therefore be an incentive to continue the political developments under way. they contain a clause authorizing the council to take appropriate action if it is proved that the most basic rights are being violated in turkey. it states that our parliament could then, like the commission, propose to the council that it be suspended. i would like to stress that if we want to ensure the coherence of the strategy we have adopted and approved over the last few months, we must avoid introducing measures in our amendments which would be tantamount to blocking the process we have started. let us not lose sight of the importance of a fruitful dialogue with turkey, if only for obvious geostrategic reasons. finally, i would like to point out that although the provisions for all the aid envisaged provide for a financing of eur 150 million over three years, the balance in favour of the union in the trade balance between turkey and the european union has doubled since the entry into force of the agreement on customs union on 1 january 1996 and has risen from eur 4 billion to eur 8 billion in four years. i sincerely believe that the community must now honour its commitments of that time, so as not to discourage all those in turkey who have resolutely embarked on the road to the customs union and who have thus decided to link their country to the european economic area.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i should also like to congratulate our colleague mrs breyer on her excellent work, which we hope will be taken up by the commission in order to develop rapidly ambitious measures to combat pollution. we know that benzene causes leukemia. we also know that childhood leukemia is on the rise. we also know that road transport causes considerable pollution in the air and we know above all that this type of transport is unfortunately increasing rather than decreasing. this means that this directive is expected and remains a priority. we support this report, but we have made some amendments to it, and i would like to defend two of them in particular. firstly, amendment no 17, which calls for the removal of the derogation which, in our view, empties the text of its substance and merely delays the application of the directive. that is the main weakness of this directive. in amendment no 20 we also suggest that the commission should lower the limit for the emission of benzene from the commission's proposed 5 micrograms per m3 to 4 micrograms per m3. the threshold will have to be lowered in any case, given the toxicity of benzene. we are still far from, of course, and very far from, the precautionary principle which should guide our policies, but i admit that this is a step forward and a start.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to speak in support of the report by mrs breyer, which i consider to be excellent in several respects. first of all, i would like to stress the positive impact of his proposals on public health. the european commission's proposal, reinforced by mrs breyer's report which goes further, lays down the principle of assessing and managing ambient air quality in relation to two major sources of pollution: benzene and carbon monoxide, both produced by road traffic. it has been rightly pointed out that benzene is a carcinogen causing leukemia and that carbon monoxide can cause toxic damage to the heart and brain and even death in high concentrations. it is not a matter of spreading fear, ladies and gentlemen, but i believe we must be aware and make people aware of the dangers we face if we do not take realistic and necessarily severe measures now, with the least possible derogations, to assess, control and minimise the polluting emissions of these two harmful gases, especially as they are more dangerous for children, the elderly and anyone with heart or lung problems. secondly, mrs breyer's report is of great interest to consumers like all of us. the initial aim was to ensure that the public has easy access to up-to-date information, but the rapporteur goes further by specifying not only the frequency with which information should be made available but also the range of media to be used to disseminate this information, and that is no small thing. european citizens have the right to know the quality of the environment in which they live. they must be able to assess measures taken by the competent national or local authorities to provide scientific communities with quantified information to improve the air they breathe. these measures constitute a strong political signal with regard to the policy choices implemented in the field of transport. i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the rapporteur's proposals, which are both ambitious and realistic, and to show the council clearly how demanding the european parliament can be on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to speak in this house for the first time today, because i am a new member, and i am pleased to do so on the subject of fisheries and the excellent report by mrs fraga estévez, because i am mayor of mèze, in the hérault, in the south of france, which is a small town, one of the first small fishing ports in the mediterranean, and close to sète, which is the main fishing port. it should be noted that since yesterday and today all the fishing ports on the mediterranean side of the mediterranean have been on strike because fishermen are protesting against the price of diesel and the collapse in the prices of blue fish, tuna, sardines and also eels which are no longer sold. there's a real market problem and it's this whole profession that's going down. and they object to the european directives, which they consider too restrictive. we need to show in discussions like this that we support the profession. i shall speak on three points in relation to mrs fraga estévez's excellent report. first, the traceability. the greens/efa group is in favour of detailed labelling on products, from the first sale to the last, so that it is known where the product is fished, how, and also whether it is a fishery or aquaculture product. we want to go even further than the proposals made by the commission. secondly, on the withdrawal and destruction issues, a reference price is fixed, a guide price is set and subsidies are granted when fishery products are not sold. subsidies are also granted for the preservation and storage of the products. our group is in favour of this when it comes to conserving products, not wasting them, but when it comes to increasing fishing effort and then destroying them, we are not in favour of it. we believe that the producer organisations should be made aware of the need to ensure that the fishing plan is well established throughout the year and that intensive fishing is not encouraged and the products are then destroyed. this is very important, it may require an increase in the reference price, or a whole procedure, but we want to see good management of the resource. finally, i would like to say that as far as customs duties are concerned, we are not in favour of systematically abolishing them. an impact study should be undertaken, as proposed by mrs fraga estévez, and objective criteria should be set before deciding which customs duties will be abolished. our group supports the report by mrs fraga estévez and also the report by mr gallagher.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating mr gallagher on the very high quality of the report he has presented to us, in detail. i shall therefore devote my speech to the fraga estévez report. the commission's proposal for the reform of the fisheries cmo was unacceptable as it stood and marked by schizophrenia. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products is a very important one. on the contrary, the principles of community preference and market regulation, as they have existed hitherto, are called into question by the commission's reform proposal. the imbalance is also evident between unjustified tariff reductions for third countries and measures which are wholly inadequate to help community fishermen to improve their competitiveness. our rapporteur, mrs fraga estévez, has incorporated a number of amendments in her draft report which significantly improve the text, but we nevertheless felt it was necessary, together with my colleague mr gallagher, to table 31 additional amendments. i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on fisheries, since 22 of them have been adopted, thus restoring the founding principles of the cfp and the cmea and giving producer organisations the necessary role and means to enable them to regulate and maximise the value of fishery and aquaculture products. i have tabled eight amendments in the plenary on behalf of my group. among these, madam rapporteur, i would like to stress the importance of amendment no 67, which is an addition to article 11 (1) of the proposed regulation. the amendment aims to enable member states to grant additional aid to producer organisations which, in the context of operational programmes falling within article 9 of the regulation, implement measures to improve the value of the species caught and to adapt supply to demand. these aids must be eligible for financing under the fifg. i know, madam rapporteur, that you approve of and will support this amendment. i hope therefore that it will be adopted by a majority of this house, because it can contribute to the consolidation and development of producer organisations which, when they work efficiently, make it possible to avoid temporary overfishing and, thanks to their exploitation actions, to preserve jobs in areas dependent on fishing. the european parliament, madam president, has played a decisive role in maintaining the financial instrument of the fifg and in correctly defining the areas dependent on fisheries under the new objective ii. if we have thus been able to help, together with the member states, to preserve a specific legal and financial framework for the cfp, it must now be used to the full to best serve the needs of coastal and maritime areas dependent on fisheries. that's what we're proposing.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we voted in committee on the reform of the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products. it is a sensitive subject, but this report was all the more necessary. the text we voted on is a good text and we have reached a good compromise. i believe that this is the kind of compromise that the european union can make when it is able to go beyond national interests and defend common interests at the same time. as we know, fisheries is a major european policy, even if it concerns few europeans, at least as producers, and much more obviously as consumers. since its creation in 1970, the community fisheries market has already undergone many changes. its regulations are adapted to this and this report should be seen as a further step in building a balanced organisation between protection and management of the fishery resource. today's report reinforces the role of consumers and producer organisations in the organisation of the market. however, it should be borne in mind that this reform will have consequences for the fisheries sector. i'll just briefly touch on two of them. what will be the role of our auctions, in particular, in view of the pre-sale contracts set out in article 12? this should not lead to a shift in our territories. secondly, what will happen in the event of a cyclical crisis in the fisheries sector if no provision is made for exceptional circumstances? it is better to plan ahead so that you can deal with all possible situations. this report does not dismiss the questions of the future, or any of them, but i believe that our committee has done a good job and deserves broad support for the report which, mrs fraga estévez, bears your name.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 10.55 a.m. pending the vote and resumed at 11.05 a.m.)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed yesterday's debates with as much attention as you can imagine, and the unanimous praise for the form and substance of this report has not failed to cause me a slight concern, since it is true that it is impossible, whatever the qualities of compromise, to satisfy everyone and his father. today, as a last resort, we are being asked to postpone the implementation of these two texts on the basis of two pretexts which were raised yesterday in the debate. the first is that the european union has not been rewarded for its efforts and that there is absolutely nothing to be expected from the turkish government, since since the implementation of the customs union agreements, no significant progress has been made, according to some of our colleagues. i would point out to the house that in this agreement on customs union it is the european union which has been the beneficiary, by far, of the commitments entered into, since the balance of trade between the european union and turkey has doubled in favour of the european union since the implementation of these agreements. the second pretext is the confirmation of mr öcalan's death sentence by the turkish court of cassation and the fact that some of our colleagues now fear for mr öcalan's life. i would point out that there has been a de facto moratorium on the death penalty in turkey for 15 years, that the report we are voting on is precisely intended to encourage the turkish government to convert this de facto moratorium into a de jure moratorium, and that in any event i wonder what our colleagues would say if, in their country of origin, there were, as they wish, an intrusion of political power into the judiciary. because mr öcalan's case is currently before the strasbourg security court. so for all these reasons, i say that when you want to drown your dog you say that it has rabies and i naturally ask the house to disregard this request for referral back.
in writing. - despite its very limited nature, and its obvious inadequacy in relation to the problem, we shall vote for the directive on 'minimum requirements to improve the safety and health protection of workers who may be exposed to the risk of explosive atmospheres', since it can represent progress in countries where workers are least protected. but since there is no provision for real control - that is, exercised by the workers themselves and, more broadly, by the population - nor for sanctions against employers guilty of imprudence, the directive risks being left untouched. the resolution, while claiming to place the safety and health of workers above 'purely economic considerations' in article 3, contradicts itself in article 2 by refusing to 'impose constraints ... which would hinder the creation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises'. it will therefore be up to the workers themselves to impose the minimum protection to which they should be entitled and which the directive does not even intend to impose.
in writing. - turkey's application for membership of the european union will probably be on the agenda of the next european council in helsinki. a strong movement is developing, particularly in france, for turkey to be recognised as a candidate country on an equal footing with the other candidates for enlargement. i would like to draw attention to the risk of finding ourselves in the same situation as with the customs union. the eu-turkey customs union was supposed to promote democratic reforms and human and minority rights, according to its promoters. against the wishes of our group and of many human rights associations, such as "france liberté" chaired by danielle mitterrand, the customs union was ratified and put into effect. today we are discussing its deepening. it is clear that the violations of human rights have continued. the kurdish problem is still not solved. öcalan's death sentence has been confirmed. leyla zana is still in prison. the european commission itself has been forced to acknowledge that since the implementation of the customs union, 'no significant progress has been made in turkey in the field of human rights and democratic reform'. let us learn from the experience of the customs union. the european council in brussels on 18 november agreed to the need to strengthen the european union's external relations and to strengthen the european union's external relations. i am not proposing to rule out turkey's application for membership of the european union. but first we must demand firm and definitive commitments from turkey and ensure that they are respected: recognition of the rights of the kurdish people, abolition of the death penalty and a new trial for öcalan, the release of leyla zana and all political prisoners, the application of the un resolutions for the solution of the cyprus problem. the report of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy makes careful reference to the question of human rights. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i cannot support this approach, because it is time to send a clear signal to turkey by blocking or suspending the implementation of the customs union.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr morillon for making it clear that the purpose of these two reports is not to debate the eligibility of turkey. the aim is to prepare the country, which is officially a candidate, for accession by means of measures aimed at deepening the ec-turkey customs union (eur 15 million over three years) and at the economic and social development of turkey (eur 135 million over three years). these proposals for regulations, which were presented by the commission in october 1998 at the request of the general affairs council, are designed to unblock the european union's financial assistance to turkey. if the proposal for a regulation relating to the customs union, based on article 235 of the treaty, requires unanimous adoption in the council, the second regulation can be adopted by codecision and thus allows for a majority decision. the duplication of regulations is justified by the desire to break the deadlock in the council. it 's about time ! it is our duty to encourage turkey to continue the reforms it has undertaken to improve its economy, to restructure and increase the efficiency of its public service, to modernise its economic and social infrastructure, to develop its productive service and to strengthen the economic and social cohesion of the country. what i like about these regulations is that they provide for cooperation projects and actions to benefit local and regional authorities, public bodies and above all civil society: associations, ngos... i think it is essential to involve the turkish people in the changes taking place in their country. at the same time, it will be necessary to monitor the progress of these cooperation projects and actions and, of course, to involve the european parliament in these checks. it is foreseen, and i welcome this, that the council may decide to suspend all cooperation when obstacles to the implementation of projects and actions (particularly in the field of democracy, human rights and the protection of minorities) arise. this will require qualified majority voting on a proposal from the commission or the european parliament. it is indeed necessary to push turkey towards greater respect for human rights. it is not easy, as the death sentence against öcalan shows, despite the protests of europe and the world. but we must persevere, and i hope that giving turkey the prospect of membership of the european union will motivate the turkish authorities to better respect human rights, promote democratic practices and liberate the occupied part of the island of cyprus. ladies and gentlemen, as we approach the helsinki summit, where the status of turkey will be discussed, our parliament must send a strong political signal, despite the reservations i can understand on the part of some of you.
in writing. - we will not vote for the resolution of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy because, despite the confusing wording, the alleged concerns about human rights are badly concealed by purely commercial interests. the rapporteur himself stresses that the balance of trade in turkey is increasingly in favour of the european union. the point of our refusal to vote on the resolution is to protest at the same time against the conditions of the workers of this country, against the oppression of the kurdish people and against the failure of the turkish state to respect basic freedoms. however, the violation of workers' rights and basic freedoms is not unique to turkey. we do not regard membership of the european union as an honour that a state should deserve, nor as a patent for democracy. and while turkey's integration into the european union meets the requirements of the large industrial and commercial groups, mainly european and incidentally turkish, it will not improve the lot of the working masses in that country in any way, any more than the european union has protected workers in the countries already integrated from unemployment and the deterioration of their living conditions.
in writing. - this discussion is an opportunity to express our solidarity with the workers and the turkish and kurdish peoples. it is up to them to decide whether or not to join the european union. and if they decide to do so, it is not our place to oppose it. this will not prevent us from continuing to condemn the repression of this regime, which is a legacy of the military dictatorship of 1980 and which today threatens to execute öcalan and denies the kurdish people self-determination. before giving lessons in democracy, european governments should set an example and start by granting the right to vote to the three million turkish and kurdish immigrant workers living in eu countries. the same eu that exploits turkey through the customs union without financial compensation. the aid must be used to help the poorest people in turkey. the priority is not economic or customs relations, but relations between civil society and organisations in turkey and those in other european countries. i shall therefore abstain on the report on economic and social development and vote against the report on the ec-turkey customs union.
mr president, the european parliament's report on the duration of the transitional period for the physical introduction of the euro provides us with an opportunity to recall some disturbing truths. firstly, although there has been a great deal of publicity for the euro, particularly at the time of its launch, although it is now legally in force and has even had some exciting mishaps on international markets, citizens seem to have completely forgotten that it exists. they continue to use the national means of payment to which they are accustomed, and they use euro means only in an infinitesimal way; worse, they seem less and less prepared to use them in the future. opinion polls show, at least in france, that the percentage of people who are considering opening a euro account in the near future has been steadily declining since 1 january 1999 and now only affects a small minority. this is a very good figure, since the closer we get to 31 december 2001, the more this percentage should increase. clearly, our citizens do not see any practical use in the euro in their daily lives. but the european parliament wants to correct them and once again calls for an information campaign which, i quote the resolution, 'should cover both the practical aspects and the fundamental meaning of monetary union'. yes, that is where we are: once again reminding those who think the euro is useless of its usefulness. i, for my part, will ask an iconoclastic question: what if our fellow citizens were right? what if they could sense a simple truth firsthand? what if the euro really is useless in everyday life? the three-year transitional period has at least shown us that it is possible to live with a euro that lives its life - which is rather chaotic on international markets - on the one hand, and national currencies still in circulation on the other, to the greatest satisfaction of consumers. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it in the future.
in writing. - i welcome with great satisfaction the report by mrs torres marques. it provides a relevant analysis of the technical difficulties which remain to be resolved in order to prepare properly for the introduction of the euro. we must not hide our faces, the problems are far from being completely solved and public opinion is far from ready. that is why, today, like the ecofin council of the european commission and our rapporteur, i too believe that the reduction of the three-year transitional period could create very serious technical difficulties, which could jeopardise the smooth transition to the euro. the technical obstacles which would pose the greatest difficulties in reducing the transitional period include: the time taken to manufacture euro banknotes and coins; the considerable scale of the it adaptations to be carried out; the euro is also the currency of the european union, and the fact that the changeover to the euro for general government was planned for 2002 to take account of the complexity of the changes to be made in this sector. beyond these technical obstacles, shortening the transitional period would jeopardise one of the strong elements of the euro's success, namely the trust built with economic and social actors (who are still insufficiently prepared) around a precise and respected timetable. and i say this as someone who had initially campaigned for a tighter timetable. in the same spirit of smooth learning of the euro, the emac committee has made a proposal which i support, aimed at enabling consumers to start exchanging their national currency for euro coins and banknotes from the beginning of december 2001. similarly, bank supply of coins and banknotes is to start well before january 2002 and retail and government supply is to start as early as december 2001. in addition, from the second week of january 2002, retailers should only hand over currency in euro rather than in national currency. i also agree with mrs torres marques when she rejects a legal obligation and only recommends a recommendation to that effect. as regards the period from 1 january 2002 when two currencies will be in circulation simultaneously, which under the treaty could be up to six months, i share the view of the rapporteur and the ecofin council that this period should be reduced to two months. we must therefore strengthen active information campaigns to inform citizens. i would like to conclude by stressing an intolerably persistent problem, namely bank charges and exchange charges. this contributes to the citizens' concerns about the practical benefits of the euro. i have in fact informed the commission and the council of this by means of written questions, which have not yet been answered. this is a serious problem at a time when the euro is experiencing a crisis of confidence.
in writing. - under the pretext of technical measures (the manufacture of banknotes), the report proposes to carry out a campaign to promote the single currency. the point is not so much to talk about the 'practical aspects' of the euro as to stress its 'fundamental significance'. it is true that the virtues of the euro do not seem to speak for themselves! preliminary classification of skeptics as "illiterate, visually impaired, and hearing impaired" does not make the report any more convincing. the document notes that the european central bank has been using the euro for its monetary operations since 1 january without ever reporting on the criteria of its exchange rate policy. the single currency is therefore not a democratic achievement for the citizens of europe, but a powerful tool of monetarism, as the recent rise in interest rates shows. the euro has been in place on the financial markets since 4 january 1999. the ordinary citizens - those who have never speculated on currencies - continue to travel and make purchases, being blackmailed by the bank commissions. this is all the more scandalous since the exchange rate of currencies is fixed from now on. we are not really addressing the real questions: a single currency for whom and for what? for all these reasons, i shall vote against this report.
- i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on 2 december 1999.
- mr swoboda, thank you. we are not going to open a debate to explain my speech in helsinki. i think i said exactly what you just said, which is that it was a problem for some people. and i said, if you read my text carefully - i hope it was translated correctly - that parliament was divided and that there were different opinions, that the debate was not yet over. if you look closely at my speech, you will see that i have not allowed myself to be judgmental. i also said that there might also be a problem of borders, and that the debate was largely under way in the european parliament. that's just what i wanted to say.
- madam president, i would like to express my surprise and indignation at the fact that commissioner fischler attended the inauguration of the carinthia representation in brussels last week at the invitation of mr haider. i think that the presence of a commissioner next to a man whose racist and xenophobic views are notorious constitutes a guarantee, and moreover a guarantee which is a violation of article 13 of the amsterdam treaty. i would like the commission to explain this during our partsession.
- thank you, mr wurtz. i'll take your statement to heart.
- madam president, our rules state that members must be able to meet freely, within the european parliament, with anyone residing in the territory of the union, and it is the quaestors, under article 25, who are responsible for this. it is also necessary, madam president, that access to parliament be made really possible for these people. last week, however, a group of class delegates from a french school were unable to visit the european parliament in brussels as planned, as some of the pupils, who are nationals of a country outside the european union, were unable to obtain visas to leave and enter the territory in due time. could you, madam president, contact the member states so that a simplified, automatic visa is introduced, issued in a much shorter time, so that all the pupils who are invited to meet us during school visits can actually go to the european parliament, whether in brussels or strasbourg.
- we will look very closely at this question in order to give it a favourable outcome.
- thank you, mrs berger, for that very important clarification.
- thank you very much, mr. seguro. i would be very happy to do so on behalf of all of you, and i think that the applause confirms your wishes.
- ladies and gentlemen, we cannot debate this issue, especially in the absence of the person concerned.
- thank you, mr president, but i think we can hardly have a debate on european culture. that would take us through the night.
- madam president, i would simply like to speak to you on behalf of the members who remain on friday morning. we feel particularly abandoned in this building. i will give you a simple example, the friday of the last part-session. i wanted access to my e-mails. i tried, but it's not possible. i tried to contact a civil servant, i really did everything, there was no one left to help me. i have spoken to other colleagues who stay with me on friday mornings and we have really found ourselves extremely abandoned.
- thank you, mrs roure, i'll take note of your intervention, and we'll try to make up for that.
- thank you, mr ceyhun. you see, mr swoboda, when i said in my text, with caution, that the debate was far from over, i think i was right in the end and that it is a great debate indeed.
- thank you, mr ripoll and martinez of bedoya. adoption of the minutes - membership of parliament - submission of documents - petitions: see minutes
- the agenda calls for the fixing of the agenda. the draft agenda was circulated and the following amendments were proposed or made (rule 111): as regards monday: as regards the report by mrs palacio vallelersundi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the verification of the credentials of members of parliament, the epp/ed group asks that this report be examined after the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the same committee, on civil liability arising from the use of motor vehicles.
- so you want it submitted before mr. rothley's report. (parliament agreed to the request)
- the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on monday, today, as regards the recommendation for second reading on substances depleting the ozone layer and the motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms, asks that these two items be moved, arguing that their consideration in plenary would coincide with the commission meeting, which would indeed be very impractical. since it is not possible to move these items forward on the agenda, i would suggest that they be placed at the end of today's agenda, that is to say after the report by mr aparicio sánchez.
- is there anyone to object to this request ? (parliament agreed to the request) tuesday and wednesday: no change proposed. as regards thursday: the president. - the report by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on units of measurement. the epp group calls for it to be dealt with without debate and voted on at the time of the votes on wednesday.
- is there a colleague to speak against this request ? (parliament agreed to the request) i would point out that the deadline for tabling amendments is 10 a.m. on tuesday, 14 december. we have several requests for amendments on topical, urgent and major issues. firstly, the epp group calls for the sub-item 'conditions of detention of political prisoners in djibouti' to be replaced by a new sub-item entitled 'detention of the president of the court of auditors in nicaragua'. who would like to speak in support of this proposal?
- is there anyone to speak against this proposal?
- madam president, i would just like to say that the case raised by mr salafranca is undoubtedly a serious one, that his proposal deserves to be supported, but not at the expense of the case of the political prisoners of djibouti, who have been sick, neglected and held in absolutely inhumane conditions for a very long time. i think that there is a very high expectation of the european parliament and we would be sending a very bad signal if we were to remove this topic from our debate.
- i put to the vote the epp proposal to replace one item by another, on the understanding that one item cannot be added since the number of subjects is limited to five. (parliament approved the request) on the human rights point, i have three additional requests. as you know, annex 3, paragraph 4 of the regulation states that the heading 'human rights' may not cover more than five headings. in the list in the final draft agenda, we already have four items, which means that we can only add one of the new items proposed. the requests for additions will therefore be put to the vote in the order of their arrival and will be mutually exclusive. these are the following requests. first, the request by the epp/de group for a sub-item entitled 'restoration of civil rights to members of former european royal families'. secondly, the request by the pse group for a sub-item on the '50th anniversary of the geneva convention' and, finally, the request by the eldr group for a sub-item on angola. we shall first put to the vote the proposal for the restoration of civil rights to members of former european royal families.
- my colleagues, we cannot start a debate on this issue. mr corbett's intervention was indeed a procedural motion since it raised the question of the urgency of the proposed sub-item and mrs muscardini replied. now we will put the epp's demand to the vote. (parliament rejected the request) we now come to the request for the 50th anniversary of the geneva convention. who is speaking in support of this request?
- who wants to intervene ?
- i put to the vote the request of the socialist group. (parliament rejected the request) we now come to the liberal group's request on angola. (parliament rejected the request) since none of these three sub-items adds to the item on 'human rights', i propose that you add the detention of political prisoners in djibouti. do you agree with my proposal?
- i agree with your proposal, but i regret that she's only coming now. i imagine that mr swoboda and his friends would have voted differently earlier on the proposal concerning political prisoners in djibouti if they had known that the point concerning nicaragua could be on the agenda. so i suggest we take another vote on the prisoners in djibouti.
- but that point, conditions of detention of political prisoners in djibouti, is maintained, mr. wurtz. it's all right, man. i must abide by the demands of the house. i note that none of the three sub-points which were proposed to be added has been retained. so i take the liberty of asking you, if you agree, to add nicaragua as a sub-item. that seems very correct to me. (parliament agreed to the request) friday: no amendment proposed (parliament adopted the agenda as amended) for other amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
- the agenda calls for the commission's declaration on the wto millennium cycle (seattle, 30 november to 3 december 1999). i welcome the presence of mr pascal lamy and i shall give him the floor immediately.
mr. president, after the failure of seattle, all the problems remain, but nothing is as it was before. our first task is therefore to make a clear diagnosis of what has just happened, so that we can take our responsibilities in full knowledge of the facts. i have heard mr lamy's analysis, from within the institution, so to speak. i would like to offer an outside perspective. i had the opportunity in seattle, for a long time, to talk with these women and men of civil society - as we say - from all walks of life. i also had the opportunity to speak with some of the main organisers of this mobilisation. they were naturally measuring the radiance and support they received from around the world: they were therefore passionate and determined but not violent, populist or nationalist as some observers thought they should be caricatured. they were informed, thoughtful, mature. they wanted to be involved in decision-making as responsible citizens, no longer treated as passive consumers. it was not openness to the world that they were opposing, but globalised commercialism. far from identifying themselves with the champions of their own countries in the global economic war, they both denounced the capitalism of multinationals, the forced profitability, the commodification of nature up to the patenting of life, the leveling of crops, the deepening of inequalities practically everywhere and especially between the north and the south. they simply aspired to civilize the modern world, to humanize globalization. people before benefits was one of their favorite slogans. they must be heard, said mr somavia, the current director-general of the international labour organisation, who four years ago was the heart of the copenhagen international conference, where all the world's heads of state committed themselves to halving poverty by 2015. to hear them is to change the wto fundamentally. i think that this begins with the current wto framework: a framework which is falsely universal and really unequal, as my friend lannoye has very well imagined. this also applies to the current missions of the wto, which places the objective of gaining market share above everything else, including commitments made by the international community on social, environmental, health or southern development. changing the wto is finally about its current mode of operation, still based on summit diplomacy and secrecy at a time of citizen's intrusion into world affairs. that is why i am calling for a genuine work of critical evaluation of past experience, followed by an offensive role for the union in favour of a democratic organisation, open to civil societies, truly universal and resolutely overcoming the gap between commercial concerns and the requirements of solidarity and sustainable development. this is another good ambition for europe's nascent foreign and security policy.
- mr president, commissioner, the failure of the seattle negotiations represents a victory for all those who reject free trade, all those who refuse to reduce human activities and man himself to the status of a commodity. the europe of nations group had denounced the improper preparation of this conference, the absence of an objective assessment of the implementation of the uruguay round, the sneaky attempt to reintroduce the multilateral agreement on investment by the tape, the objective of accelerated liberalisation, without recognition of the legitimacy of the regional preference zones. the seattle protesters have put an end to this drift. they have stopped a conference prepared by the powerful for their own benefit and have thereby obtained the moratorium which my group was asking for. we welcome this, but we must now use this moratorium to prepare ourselves better for future negotiations. firstly, on procedure, we want the european parliament and the council to start thinking seriously about the democratic control of the commission during such international negotiations. we cannot forget that mr lamy, in a commission statement which did not have the council's agreement, proposed a working group on biotechnologies which risked bringing biotechnologies back into the negotiations, as the americans wanted and as we refused. the commissioner explained earlier, and last week before the european parliament's committee on agriculture, that he was going to get much more in return for this concession. we are not at all satisfied with this statement and we think it only makes matters worse for him, because in our view this was not a negotiable point at all. fortunately, in the end, seattle was a failure, or we don't know where we'd be taken. the commission, as is its custom, thinks it is above the council and tries to do what it wants. we have to change that. this needs to be changed, especially since the commission had been given a broad negotiating mandate on the agenda, including issues such as investment and services, which normally fall within the competence of the member states. we believe that this point too will have to be clarified seriously in the future, because it could have led to a final negotiating mandate which would have reduced or eliminated the powers of the national parliaments. on the contrary, in future negotiations, much stricter parallel control of national parliaments, such as the european parliament, will have to be introduced. the control over the commission will therefore have to be reformed, but we must also make use of the time we have to draw up a genuine and objective assessment of the uruguay round. above all, in the future, the functioning of the world trade organisation will have to be revised to establish this fundamental principle that peoples alone are sovereign, that they are free to choose their way of life and to express their preferences. finally, that multinational companies must adapt to the will of the people and not the people to the needs of the multinationals.
- mr president, the official delegation of the european union in seattle defended the principle of a broad agenda. it was mandated to include a wide range of new areas in the millennium cycle, but in fact it was intended to give the wto a wider range of responsibilities and powers. for us, it is not a question of better organising the continued liberalization of trade, but of giving priority to the defence of social and environmental rights and of enabling all the peoples to control themselves and decide their future. the delegation also implied that it had fought for the countries of the south. but it is not. as far as agriculture is concerned, the european union has only defended the european export agribusiness against its north american competitors and the exporters of the cairns group. it did not represent the demands of the family or associative farms of europe or the demands of the peasants of the south. the global protest that disrupted the seattle conference represents the first global response to the dictatorship of markets and financial profit. they are a source of hope for millions of workers, the unemployed, landless peasants and all the victims of the capitalist world order which the wto wants to impose on us. the interests of the people are in contradiction with the development of liberalism.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i will not repeat what has already been said. the wto is a failure in its current form because the wto is no longer adequate, nor is it transparent. the first lesson we must learn is the one the ngos were asking for, namely fair trade and not free trade, and from this point of view we must say to ourselves that no international organization today can escape the eyes of the citizen and that this is normal. the next deadline is very close. geneva must not be conducted in a subtle way. of course we have marrakesh, of course we have no obligation to deliver results, but we must be vigilant that the separate agreements on agriculture and services do not bring in through the window what we have thrown out through the door. one of the lessons of seattle, and commissioner lamy has begun to learn from it, is to find allies. but, of course, there are already a few of these allies. the most important of these will probably be, as paul lannoye has stressed, the acp countries. if i take the example of european agriculture, it cannot continue to say that it is doing well, that it is multifunctional, that it is functioning in a positive way, that it is now defending its consumers, and at the same time remain selfish towards the countries of the south. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. everyone has the right today to be in solidarity and to have the means to live better, to get out of international selfishness.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0086/1999) on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and amending directives 73/239/eec and 88/357/eec (fourth motor insurance directive) (rapporteur: mr rothley).
the commission is aware of the fact that the fourth motor vehicle directive is an important step towards closing the gap in european directives on motor insurance and strengthening the internal market in this field. as you know, there are more than 500 000 road accidents in the community every year. the current system of compensation for victims of accidents occurring outside the member state in which they are domiciled is not working well. a quick and pragmatic solution is needed to protect the very large number of motorists who travel abroad each year. i would like to thank parliament very warmly for having asked for this directive. this was the first time that parliament had made use of its new competence under article 192 of the treaty. the commission supported this request and worked to ensure that its proposal was adopted swiftly. i would like to thank mr rothley in particular for all the work he has done, both in conducting the debate and in bringing the directive to where it is today. the commission is of the opinion that the common position defined by the council constitutes a balanced and coherent text. this is a true description of the problems which led parliament to call for regulation at european community level. the text incorporates the main elements of the commission's proposal and takes account in full or in part of 24 of the 36 amendments tabled by parliament at first reading. this is not insignificant. in its response to the amendments proposed by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market of the european parliament, the commission was guided by the search for a legal instrument that could respond as effectively as possible to the needs of those who take out a motor insurance policy. i now come to the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. i can also accept amendment no 13, which calls for greater consumer protection, although the word 'immediately' as used in this text must be clarified to avoid contradictions in the application of this provision by the member states. i now wish to turn to amendments nos 1, 2, 8 and 9 tabled by the rapporteur, which seek to extend the scope of the directive to include accidents which have occurred in third countries and involve two parties who are both established in the european union and both of whom are covered by insurance companies in the european union. let me remind you of the reasons why the commission rejected these amendments at first reading. firstly, there is the compensation mechanism which is set out in this directive, as in the other previous directives on motor insurance, and which is based on the green card system. it is not possible to extend the mechanism to third countries which do not participate in this system and which do not recognise the validity of the european insurance conventions. insurance companies would not agree to cover these risks or would demand very high premiums. in any event, the authorities of third countries would require foreign motorists from the european union to take out insurance contracts with companies established in the territory of the countries in question. second, the application of the directive, in particular the provision which provides for the possibility of bringing an action directly against insurance undertakings, may run counter to certain rules of law in force in third countries concerning civil liability and private international law, in particular where direct recourse is not recognised in those rules of law. thirdly, these amendments lead to a lack of consistency with article 5 (3) of the information centre directive and article 7 concerning the impossibility of identifying the vehicle or the insurance company. in my view, these four amendments concerning accidents in third countries cannot be accepted at this stage and in their present form. in the event that a consultation procedure proves unavoidable, the commission could consider extending the scope of the directive to take account of the above. i would like to add something about this possible extension. as i have said, this directive is based on the green card system. 39 countries participate in the green card system. among these 39 countries, besides the european union, besides the 15 member states, there are six countries which are also parties to the multilateral guarantee convention. these countries are switzerland - which is very important because many accidents happen there - hungary, the czech republic, slovakia, croatia and slovenia. six countries therefore, which constitute a subgroup of all the countries participating in the green card system. the commission is prepared, in its desire to meet the requirements of the european parliament, to defend a compromise proposal in which the directive, or at least its scope, would be extended to the six countries already mentioned, but to no other.
- thank you, commissioner, for your precise answer. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
- doc. a5-0075/99 by mr aparicio sánchez, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the allocation of licences for heavy goods vehicles in switzerland (com (99) 35 - c5-0054/1999 - 1999/0022).
commission. - (nl) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the two parliamentary committees and in particular the two rapporteurs, mr aparicio sánchez and mr brunetta, for the time and effort they have devoted to the preparation of this proposal. the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to define a method for allocating the two categories of authorization for heavy goods vehicles of the european union circulating in switzerland. the proposal therefore includes a regulation and two categories of authorizations, called heavy-duty authorizations. this proposal will for the first time make it possible to allow european union lorries with a maximum weight of 40 tonnes to be used on swiss territory, subject to a certain quota of journeys. the other category of authorizations, the so-called authorizations for empty or low-load vehicles, also entitles to a certain quota of journeys on swiss territory, at a reduced rate, for trucks with a maximum weight not exceeding 28 tonnes. i am pleased to inform you that the commission, which has greatly appreciated the excellent work done by the two parliamentary committees on this subject and their openness to compromise, can accept amendments nos 1 to 6 and amendment no 8. that is to say, all the amendments except amendment no 7, which the commission really cannot accept. the commission's proposal, mr president, aims to allocate 90 per cent of the authorizations to the member states which carry out the largest number of transports on swiss territory, while guaranteeing all member states a basic quota of 1 500 authorizations per year. with this amendment the minimum quota is reduced to 500. the benefit would accrue to the quotas of the three large member states which share a common border with switzerland. in other words: france, germany and italy. this would therefore be to the detriment of the other member states. since the authorization system includes a mechanism to allocate unused authorizations between the different countries, i can assure the house that there is no risk that authorizations allocated by quota will be wasted or unused. the commission therefore prefers to allocate an identical quota to all member states and cannot therefore accept amendment no 7.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0077/1999) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (5748/3/1999 - c5-0034/1999 - 1998/0228) (rapporteur: mrs hulthén).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. the commission certainly shares this objective, since these substances are making a major and increasing contribution to the depletion of the ozone layer. european smes, which play a major role in the development of alternatives, have demonstrated that a rapid phase-out of other ozone-depleting substances encourages sustainable industries and further protection of the ozone layer. following complex negotiations within the council, an acceptable common position was adopted in february. the commission's priority is the rapid adoption of this common position. the commission cannot act as quickly as it would like on certain issues now that certain dates which have been proposed for phasing out are fast approaching. it is important to avoid the introduction of new substances responsible for the depletion of the ozone layer. amendment no 27 introduces an accelerated procedure for the inclusion of new substances of this kind in the regulation, which would be useful in suspending unwise investments and would be beneficial for the ozone layer. the commission can therefore accept the amendments in principle. we can also accept amendment no 9 because it allows for limited time extensions for the use of very small quantities of cfcs in specialised medical facilities for the purpose of relieving the pain of patients. the commission may accept other amendments, in whole, in principle or in part. i am referring to amendments nos 1, 4, 11, 12, 15, 17, 24, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32 and 35. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2 and 10 because they propose the first reductions in the production and use of methyl bromide within unrealistic time limits - 1 january 2000 and 1 january 2001 respectively. this would lead to procedural difficulties and problems for farmers. the commission cannot accept amendment no 3, which would prohibit any derogation beyond 2006. this would disproportionately penalise individual farmers or certain crops. the community's ozone policy includes strict controls on the production of and trade in hcfcs with countries which have not signed the montreal protocol. two weeks ago, at the meeting in beijing of the countries which signed the montreal protocol, the community succeeded in introducing these measures into the protocol. however, far too strict measures going beyond the common position could push markets to turn to overseas producers. we cannot therefore accept amendments nos 5, 6, 7, 8 and 23 because they call for an acceleration of the phase-out process and impose an immediate ban on the marketing of the substances in question. some amendments propose controls on the use of hcfcs. the current position strikes a careful balance between what is environmentally desirable, technically possible and economically feasible. the commission cannot therefore accept amendments nos 13, 14 and 16 because they would further limit the time limits in the context of phasing out the use of hcfcs in solvents, air conditioning systems and polyurethane foams. this would lead to more problems and serious cash-flow difficulties within companies. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 18 and 34 on the possible use of hcfcs as a substitute for halons in firefighting. the extension of the right is unnecessary and its limitation would have little or no practical effect. these changes would affect a key part of the compromise of the common position. amendment no 28 concerns article 5 and prohibits the direct use of cfcs and hcfcs as a manufacturing agent in a specific application. the commission cannot accept this amendment because phasing out requires a transitional period. the commission cannot accept amendment no 19 either, which prohibits the sale of second-hand equipment containing hcfcs within 5 years of the respective ban on use. this would increase the risk of illegal dumping and release of hcfcs into the atmosphere. the commission welcomes amendment no 20, which prohibits the production of products containing hcfcs for export within three years of the national ban on the use of these substances. however, we must maintain a balance between environmental requirements and the risk of manufacturing elsewhere. the commission cannot therefore accept this amendment. similarly, although we support the objective of amendment no 21, it would be incompatible with the derogation in article 5 (6) concerning special cases. we cannot therefore accept it. moreover, the commission cannot accept amendment no 22 since the derogations would in any case be granted by the member states after full consultation. we cannot therefore accept it. the commission cannot accept amendment no 30, which seeks to extend the scope for derogations to substances which have already been phased out. it is important to send a clear signal that when a substance has been phased out, no further derogations can be accepted except for substances whose use is recognised as essential. finally, i thank parliament for its work and for its careful examination of the common position.
- thank you, chief. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday.
- the next item is the motion for a resolution (b5-0313/1999), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the follow-up to parliament's opinion on the labelling of foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms.
- mr president, this 1% rate of non-labellable gmos, presented here from a purely technical point of view, seems very high compared to commitments already made by large retailers. then why the 1% rate? in our view, the companies that produce and use gmos on a massive scale are seeking to create a de facto situation, achieved by generalising the presence of gmos to the entire agri-food market. they make it virtually impossible to establish supply chains capable of offering consumers products without gmos. secondly, there is no guarantee that gmos will not have any long-term consequences for public health and the environment, especially as mass production causes their dispersal into nature. the social impact of the spread of gmos is well known: the growing dependence of producers and consumers on the giants of the agri-food sector. in our view, to overcome the policy of the fait accompli, it is necessary to ensure that complete production chains are maintained without gmos. finally, producers and consumers need to know whether the products they use contain them or not. there are means of control, and they are effective if the public authorities have the political will to do so. we now see no reason for a tolerable threshold for gmos below which the risk would be zero or at least acceptable.
the commission is aware of the difficulties facing the community in the field of the internal market. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already discussed this matter on 15 november. i said then that it is not just a question of whether we approve or authorize gmos or not or whether we should label them or not. we are simply trying to implement the existing legislation and make it operational. we are responding to the council's mandate on the labelling of genetically modified food by means of the proposal to amend regulation no 1139/98, which establishes a minimum threshold for the accidental presence of authorized genetically modified substances. the commission was forced to do so when the regulation was adopted. this project aims to solve the problem of food labelling where farmers have tried not to use genetically modified substances and can prove it but small amounts of these substances are still detected. this accidental contamination may occur during crops, harvesting, transport, storage and processing. we have had several consultations with the joint research centre and the member states and have come to the conclusion that a rate of 1% is the best compromise in two respects: firstly, for the objective of establishing a very low tolerance threshold involving efforts on the part of the operators; then it shall consider the feasibility required throughout the production chain. we shall soon have methods that will not cause any undue difficulty to the competent enforcement authorities. i would also point out that this value is stricter than the thresholds applied by other countries such as switzerland, norway and japan. as you are aware, the united states of america and canada have no obligation to label genetically modified food, and the european union does not. the environment committee wants us to re-evaluate this issue. i am prepared to make a commitment on behalf of the commission: the commission will review the draft regulation amending regulation 1139/98 within one year of its entry into force. the commission will propose any amendments which may prove necessary in the light of improvements in quantitative detection techniques and practical experience gained from the implementation of the proposed 1% rate. in addition, the white paper on food safety will also give us the opportunity to hold a wide-ranging debate on the question of labelling if the european parliament so wishes. the commission has not exceeded its executive duties in proposing these regulations. the two proposed measures are consistent with the current legislation. we will follow the codecision procedure when parliament asks for a programme on products not containing gmos. mr byrne's department is preparing a proposal for a regulation on novel foods.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon on wednesday. (the sitting was closed at 12.15 p.m.) the next item is the report (doc.
- for technical reasons, the minutes of yesterday's sitting will not be available until early afternoon and will be submitted to the house for adoption at 3 p.m. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- i'm very sorry about that, mr. colom i naval. we shall see how we can ensure that this does not happen again and how they can join us as soon as possible.
- thank you, mr galeote quecedo, i am well aware of the difficulties that a number of colleagues have in getting to strasbourg. as you know, i'm trying to do everything i can to make communications better. that's one of my goals, too.
- yes, mr. sturdy, it's the re-establishment of the tdi technical group that's caused some difficulties, but we'll fix that very quickly.
- the agenda calls for a joint discussion on the european council meeting in helsinki on 10 and 11 december and the statement by the council presidency on the six-month period of the finnish presidency, including the situation in chechnya and the osce summit. mr. lipponen told us he'd be late. since mr prodi is here, i will give him the floor first, if he is willing.
the commission is very pleased with the outcome of the helsinki european council. let me congratulate you, madam president, on the way you have opened the proceedings of this summit. your contribution was very well received and it opened the way to a very constructive debate, particularly on parliament's participation in the intergovernmental conference. the discussions in helsinki focused on three main themes: enlargement, defence and the ics. let me take them in order. first, there is enlargement. i am very pleased that the european council has decided to open accession negotiations with the six candidate countries of the second wave as early as next year. this means that we will be preparing to welcome 12 new member states and that we will have to be able to conclude negotiations with the first of them by the end of 2002, provided of course that we have succeeded in reforming our institutions and have completed the revision of the eu treaties. the success of the igc is an essential condition for enlargement. i am also very pleased that the heads of state and government have taken the historic decision to recognise turkey as an official candidate country. we want to help turkey to comply fully with the copenhagen criteria and now that the european council has given the go-ahead we will be able to define specific means to this end in the framework of a pre-accession strategy for turkey. second, the defense. i am also very pleased that the european council has adopted the main elements of the new european security and defence policy (esdp), in particular by developing military and civilian means of crisis management. a rapid reaction force of 50,000 to 60,000 men will enable us to extinguish quickly and effectively fires that may occur in our neighbourhood, particularly when our nato allies do not wish to be involved. the need for security and a large area of peace and stability in europe is highlighted by the situation in chechnya, on which the european council adopted a detailed statement. the specific measures recommended include the proposal that tacis funds be redeployed for humanitarian action, and the commission will act swiftly to implement this proposal. this is a good example of an area where the commission has direct responsibilities and can help to resolve the crisis in chechnya. chechnya was also the main topic of concern at the osce summit in istanbul in november. the political declaration signed at this summit makes it clear that a political solution to the chechen crisis is essential and reaffirms certain oecd principles, despite very strong pressure from the russian federation in particular to water down these principles. these principles include the right of the osce to address conflicts that violate the commitments made by all participating states on human rights and the rule of law. i reaffirmed at the istanbul summit that the eu is firmly committed to rebuilding south-east europe and integrating it into the european whole. i also stressed the substantial aid we are already giving to this region and will continue to give. the istanbul summit also provided an opportunity to sign the new treaty on conventional armed forces in europe, to adopt the 1999 vienna document and to sign the european security charter, which highlights the common challenges and foundations of european security in the new millennium and proposes new instruments to enable the osce to meet these challenges. president ahtasaari and i signed the charter for the european union and i am pleased to see that it takes up the platform for security cooperation proposed by the eu. i now return to the helsinki summit and the third major theme of the discussions, the igc. i think it is very wise that the european council has decided to open this conference as early as next february, as we have repeatedly asked, while keeping an open mind about the agenda. we are all just beginning to realise what a europe of more than 25 member states will be like and it would certainly not have been wise to lock the agenda already. fortunately, common sense has prevailed and the igc will look at the unfinished business in amsterdam and the corollaries that follow - for example the redistribution of seats in parliament after enlargement. the conference will also consider any other important institutional issues arising from enlargement; the commission has already made some suggestions as to what these issues might be. i think that parliament and the commission will come back to these problems in the formal opinions they will present at the summit in january. none of the items on the agenda is simple and others may need to be added as the conference progresses. so it 's time to roll up our sleeves and get to work ! i think this work will take up a lot of your time and ours. i am pleased to say that the efforts of the commission to ensure that the european parliament can play its full role in the igc have been successful: parliament will have observer status in the group of personal representatives. in conclusion, let me say how disappointed i am that the helsinki summit has not led to any progress on the tax package - except the decision to continue working on this for another six months. this was not one of the fundamental points, but it was important anyway and above all very apparent in the european information. this is obviously a mediocre result after two years of intense efforts and i would like to stress how important it is to reach a definitive result on this matter quickly. we need to make sure that the public understands what this package is. it is not just a question of preventing - and this is important - harmful tax competition or ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market - concepts which, i repeat, are very important but boring, distant and bureaucratic for most people. this is, in fact, a matter of extreme importance for the daily life of everyone in europe: it is a matter of creating jobs. in the event of complete evasion of capital taxation, as has occurred over the last ten years, all labour costs would be increased. i do not think that is the best policy to follow in the fight against unemployment. the fact is simply that tax evasion is unfair and harmful to employment. we must fight it by all means possible. if we fail to find effective methods of taxing capital, the entire tax burden will have to be borne by labour, which will only aggravate the problem of unemployment. i will therefore be following very closely the negotiations on the tax package over the next six months and will be giving mr bolkestein all the help i can, as he has done an excellent job in the last few months. ladies and gentlemen, you can see that there is a lot to be done as a result of this european council. we must work together and, for the first time, we have a wide scope to do so. we shall do so with determination, in good faith and in a spirit of great cooperation. i thank you for the spirit that has prevailed. (applause) i would like to thank
- i thank mr prodi and welcome mr lipponen. we were told that your car was late. so you are quite excused and i will give you the floor right away, mr prime minister.
- mr president of the republic, i have the great pleasure of welcoming you to the european parliament. you have been kind enough to come to inaugurate our new building in strasbourg and you are the first head of state of the european union that we welcome in this new palace. this is quite natural, since parliament is the host of france. parliament is honoured by your presence, as it was honoured two years ago in brussels by king albert ii of belgium when he came to inaugurate the leopold space. forty years after its creation, the european parliament is finally within its walls, in this architectural ensemble that harmoniously features on both sides of the confluence of two rivers of peaceful water, as a symbol of europe's will to meet and unite in peace. like europe, which is a collective construction, this project was the result of multiple competitions for what was, at the time of its construction, the largest public works project in france. first of all, let me recall the very strong commitment of the french state, the president of the republic and the government, which provided its financial guarantee, as well as that of the regional and departmental prefects, who represented the state, and to emphasize the attention with which you yourself, mr president of the republic, personally followed the progress of the construction site and the completion of the work. i would also like to pay tribute to the authorities of the city of strasbourg, and in particular to its mayor, mr roland ries, and to his predecessor, the minister for culture, our former colleague, mrs catherine trautmann. your determination has been matched only by your love for your beautiful city and your willingness to serve and expand its international reach. i naturally join in this tribute mr pierre pflimlin, former president of the french council, who was mayor of strasbourg for 24 years, and who was also president of our assembly from 1984 to 1987. i salute him as a great european craftsman and assure him of our deep respect and affection. (applause) here in strasbourg, a european project is, by instinct, the business of the whole of alsace, and i would like to emphasize the moral and financial commitment of the alsace regional council and the lower rhine general council, under the impetus of their presidents, marcel rudloff, who has left us, daniel hoeffel, adrien zeller, also our former colleague in parliament, and philippe richter. naturally, our thanks for this work also go to all those who designed and built it directly, the project manager, the architects and the thousands of engineers, technicians, workers and subcontractors who built it with enthusiasm. i have the feeling today that the shortcomings and difficulties which we rightly complained about last july in the operation of this building and which we have promptly remedied have now been largely forgotten. the european parliament, like brussels and luxembourg, has three places of work. it is a singularity, of course, which we take for granted as a legacy of history. i would just say that, as far as strasbourg is concerned, it fulfils a specific purpose, which is of the mind and memory, and which the treaty of amsterdam has now enshrined. it was lord ernest bevin, the foreign secretary of the united kingdom, who first proposed strasbourg, as early as 1949, just fifty years ago, as a highly symbolic place for the new europe of peace. (applause) i would like to thank he called, and i quote, 'this great city which has been a witness to the stupidity of mankind to become a symbol of european unity, the place which was suited to develop this great effort in an atmosphere of goodwill and not domination'. the palace, which houses the chamber of deputies, will now be named after louise weiss. i am not without emotion when i think of this intrepid political journalist, born in 1893, who, at the end of the first world war, became involved in the struggle for peace, for the construction of europe and also for women's right to vote. louise weiss has remained the symbol of a visionary commitment to both the women's and the european cause, both of which remain highly topical. in 1979, when the first direct elections to the european parliament were held, she was the oldest member of our assembly. at the end of the opening session, which she chaired in this capacity, she was pleased to see that the first president of the european parliament was mrs simone veil, whose presence here i welcome with emotion and friendship. (applause) i would like to thank today's inauguration comes at a time when the european council has just boldly opened in helsinki the great project of the eventual reunification of all europe within the union, of the adaptation of the institutions to this enlargement, of an autonomous european defence. nothing will be accomplished in ease. but this half-century of european construction has been marked by the constant efforts that each of us has had to make to overcome the initial conflicts of interests or conceptions between our states and to make the common interest prevail in solidarity. the difficulties which have arisen in recent days between our two states, however acute they may be, and which, as you know, i take into account in their human as well as in their economic aspects, will not escape this rule, that is to say, this dynamic of a conclusion of an agreement, i am convinced of this and i ardently hope so. this inauguration also comes at a time when parliament is reaching what can be called its political maturity, thanks in particular to the progress made by the maastricht and amsterdam treaties. i am pleased to see here today the highest authorities of all the european institutions, and in particular the council, which is chaired today by finland, and i welcome prime minister lipponen, (applause) and the european commission, headed by mr romano prodi, as well as many ministers and representatives of the parliaments of our states, not to mention, of course, the council of europe and its european court of human rights, which remains our neighbour and has been our host for so long. the democratic responsibility of parliament can now only rise to the heights of the new powers conferred on it by the states and peoples of europe. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: may today's ceremony, which is honoured by your presence, mr president of the republic, be a sign of unity for all the citizens of the european union on the eve of the year 2000, and i give you the floor without further ado. (applause from the left)
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the great pleasure and honour today to present to you the results reached by the council at the second reading of the draft budget for 2000, which take account of the amendments and proposals for amendments tabled by the european parliament. i would also like to take this opportunity to explain in more detail the council's proposal on the financing of aid to kosovo in 2000. we know that some of you think that the funding prospects for the years 2000 to 2006 are too narrow and that the maximum rate for category 4 is too low. we do, however, consider that the maximum rate for the year 200 which we are now deciding on is appropriate. in view of the unexpected needs arising from kosovo, the council believes that a flexible approach can be used provisionally. we fully understand parliament's concern about this year's budgetary procedure. i think, however, that our common objective is to give the people of kosovo the help they need without further delay. our common objective is at the same time to maintain our aid for the other beneficiaries, especially the poorest countries. the new interinstitutional agreement is of interest because it provides for the possibility of using an extended conciliation procedure, which has given parliament several opportunities to present its views and to hear the views of others. we have been in contact on several occasions with members of parliament, in particular with mr wynn, mr bourlanges and mr naval, in order to reach a balanced compromise which will allow a stable economic policy in the year 2000 and which will preserve a good spirit of cooperation between the institutions for the years to come. after these contacts, the council is prepared to accept the flexibility clause in its entirety. this is the way in which the interinstitutional agreement allows for the adjustment of the financing prospects in unforeseen situations. the council is also prepared to accept a large number of introductory statements which are an essential part of the conciliation package and which leave a possibility for the negotiations we will have next year on the financing of category 4 issues, such as the eastern balkans. we have not, however, considered it necessary to revise the maximum rate for category 4 otherwise than by means of a flexible instrument. the main reason is that kosovo, with a population of less than two million, can only receive limited aid, less than initially expected. the council shares the view of parliament that the appropriations to be allocated to kosovo in the year 2000 are much smaller than those initially requested by the commission. however, as the need for the year 2000 is relatively small - less than 400 million - while the budget is well over 90 billion, and as the commission has not yet had the opportunity to define the needs for each year after the year 2000, there is no technical need at present to revise the funding prospects. the council also takes the view that the credibility of the institutions of the european union requires a certain degree of stability and seriousness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must show that we, the leaders of the european union, are doing a serious job, that we are taking decisions with a sense of reason, after careful thought and consideration, and that we are then respecting our decisions and agreements. i should now like to explain in a little more detail what the council proposal contains in respect of category 4 and why it meets the european parliament's requirements financially. the first advantage of the package presented by the council is that it proposes, for the aid to be granted to kosovo and east timor, concrete forms of financing and means, without this being at the expense of any other beneficiary. i know it is not appropriate to talk about numbers, but here i must give some. we are aiming to confirm the budget for the year 2000 and unfortunately the budget talks about figures. the european parliament and the council decided that the aid to be granted to kosovo in 2000 should be 360 million. the commission has informed us that 60 million could be taken from the 1999 budget and used in the year 2000. this means that for kosovo we have to take 300 million from the 2000 budget. in addition, 60 million from the obnova programme and 20 million from the echo programme were already provided for in our first review, and they were to be used for kosovo anyway. we accept that 40 million more can be used in the year 2000 through transfers. this puts us in a situation where we have to find new funding of 180 million for kosovo in the year 2000. we also know that the european parliament wants to give 20 million to east timor. 180 and 20, that's 200. this is precisely the amount which could be used, according to the council's proposal, by means of a flexible method, in addition to the maximum rate allowed under category 4 of the financing perspective. in other words, the council is proposing to pay all the new funds needed for the aid to be given in the year 2000 to kosovo and east timor, for the part that exceeds the current upper limit of the financing prospects. there would then be no need to recoup appropriations, or to cut them, at the expense of other beneficiaries. this was one of the wishes of the european parliament and the council intends to give full effect to this wish. although the purpose of the present procedure is only to draw up the 2000 budget, the commission has already said in a statement to be published in the official journal of the european communities that it will propose before april 2000 an aid programme for the whole region of the western balkans for the years 2000-06, with proposals for revising the financing prospects. the european parliament and the council will decide in a separate declaration on the elaboration of such a multiannual programme. at present, however, no such programme has yet been proposed. that is why we can only deal with the problem of the year 2000, which is urgent, and will deal with the commission's proposals next year when they are known. the council has stated on many occasions that it attaches great importance to cooperation with the european parliament in drawing up the budget. this was not just a statement without substance, it also had practical consequences. the council, for example, has accepted almost all the amendments concerning the administrative expenditure of the european parliament, most of them relating to domestic policies which, to our knowledge, are of particular interest to you. the sums which parliament has added to programmes such as socrates, leonardo, on equality between men and women, altener, synergy, life, and all the action programmes in the fields of health and research, and many others, have also been accepted. the council also accepted the new guidelines for the determination of the costs of managing action programmes and for the control of technical assistance offices. this was also one of the main objectives of the european parliament this year. the council also accepted the increase of 50 million, which parliament considered important, for appropriations relating to food safety. i would also like to mention olaf, the european anti-fraud office, as an example of what can be achieved through interinstitutional cooperation. the regulations and, in general, the legal framework for the founding of olaf as a whole, despite their complexity, were, thanks to the close cooperation of parliament and the council, the first codecision procedure to be successfully completed in a single examination and in the record time of five months. in addition - also thanks to the close cooperation between parliament and the council - supplementary budgets 4 and 5 for 1999 were accepted quickly and amendment no 2 to the 2000 budget is now ready for acceptance. all this makes it possible to almost double olaf's staff during the year. in addition, the european parliament and the council seem to have to agree today on the new director of olaf, which makes olaf entirely reliable. we all know that a solitary path and the apparent freedom it offers can sometimes seem more appealing than the obligations imposed by cooperation. we believe, however, that cooperative strategies normally produce a better outcome from the point of view of the community as a whole and that they are normally more advantageous for each party involved than aggressive strategies. the council thus proposes cooperation as a means of financing aid to be granted to kosovo and east timor in the year 2000. this solution provides, without unnecessary delay, resources for those in kosovo and east timor who are in urgent need of assistance. under this proposal, all these needs will be financed through a flexible means for those parties exceeding the upper limit of the financing prospects, without taking anything away from anyone. the council is also ready for a solution where payment appropriations are cut by two billion euro by adding compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. the council has already shown that it is willing to respond to parliament's wishes by accepting many amendments which are important to you and by presenting this offer on kosovo and east timor, which seeks to take account of your concerns. the council therefore wants the european parliament to take its decision on the budget on the basis of the council's proposal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very strange, very extravagant situation. we voted on the first reading three months ago. we have been negotiating diligently in various fora. the commission has tabled its letter of amendment, the council has voted on the budget at second reading and the committee on budgets last week adopted its own second reading. so everything should be said. we should be voting on thursday but it seems that, curiously, while everything is ready, the council has not yet finished its position. when i say "stop his position" it's an expression, because he's actually changing it insensibly. this is what jean paulhan, the famous french writer, called "progress in love rather slow", which is the title of a very interesting book that i recommend to you. so it seems that progress in love is slow and can still be made. we are looking forward to this progress with a genuine concern, because we do not understand why the council has not been able to say clearly for weeks what it is prepared to accept and what it is not prepared to accept. we see in these delays - i had reported last year on the problems of the council's functioning - the sign of a growing and worrying paralysis of this institution. we have experienced it in some conciliation meetings which were considered very traumatic by most of our colleagues, who are less experienced than mr wynn, myself or mr colom i naval, who are used to this sort of thing and know that it is never very easy. in reality, it was a very tough conciliation and you yourself, madam president-in-office, took an excessively abrupt position. so, where are we? i don 't know about that ! there's supposed to be a trilogue tonight. will you make us some proposals ? i do not see why you should make proposals today that you were not able to make yesterday, or last wednesday, or two weeks ago, but perhaps you have the secret to making your colleagues change? what is the position of parliament in the final analysis? by compromise, what are we looking for? in truth, we wished for five things. firstly, that the vote on second reading should be as close as possible to the vote on first reading by parliament. the vote we cast reflected our political orientation. what 's wrong with him ? in this respect, the various scenarios are satisfactory. in the initial phase of the procedure we were offered a reduction of some 500 million in category 4 compared with the preliminary draft budget. in the compromise we voted for, we are only 150 million down, not in relation to the apb but in relation to our vote at first reading. for the rest - categories 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 - nothing remains unchanged. it is therefore possible to say that parliament is satisfied on this point, subject of course to the question of kosovo, to which i shall return. the great commitments we made - as the president-in-office recalled - on the fisheries agreement, on timor and on turkey are also being taken into account, which is satisfactory. the second objective we were pursuing was to finance kosovo above the ceiling of heading 4. in this case, after a difficult start, we believe that the proposal for the flexibility instrument - which is not the most appropriate instrument - to finance kosovo by 200 million over the category is satisfactory in itself and indeed allows us, if we agree on the rest, to have a satisfactory approach to the financing of kosovo for this year. i would also point out that the final proposal is even better than the commission's initial proposals, and the commission should take note of that. a third objective was to review the financial perspective beyond the year 2000. we have a commitment which has two negative features in relation to what we wanted: firstly, the revision will only be carried out in the whole of the balkans, whereas we believe that the kosovo issue is the justification for it, and secondly, this commitment will be conditional. the amounts of appropriations to be allocated to the balkans, which result from the commission's estimate and have been accepted by the council, should be substantially higher than those of the existing programmes. i am afraid that the council's view is that the revision of the financial perspective is to be centred on the disappearance of comrade milosevic. i am concerned about this view because when i see what happened to saddam hussein, i believe that dictators sometimes live longer than we would like. but the question remains. finally, as the fourth objective, we wanted the effort to help the balkans to be based on a serious, multiannual and binding needs assessment. and now we're way off the mark. it is not enough to listen to the president-in-office a moment ago: she was afraid, afraid to quote figures, and spoke a language that called for a translation based on a pivotal language, which is the absolute guarantee that no one understands anything anymore. but in any case, this waltz of numbers was eloquent enough to show that we were basing ourselves on something that was really quite unsatisfactory. the estimates are not serious. we started with 500 million, a number that was chosen mainly because of the number of zeros it contains and its ease of pronunciation. then everybody except us started making estimates and saying: i take 140 million, i put humanitarian aid aside, i add deferrals, etc., and wow, i need so much. in reality, no serious needs assessment has been made, based on a clear distinction between what should be done to repair the damage of war, to modernise the country and to modernise society. we were expecting serious commitments, multiannual commitments, binding commitments. the compromise on this point is not satisfactory in my view, if not in the view of all the members of the committee on budgets. finally, the terms of the compromise were to have a moderate reduction in payment appropriations. if we had passed article 272, we would have had 2.8 billion to save in non-compulsory expenditure. we obviously rejected that prospect because of that. it is not to make cuts that approach such large numbers. those were the terms of the compromise. if i take stock, we are satisfied with two things. we are only half satisfied with the revision, not at all satisfied with the estimate of needs in kosovo and finally very uncertain about the reduction in payment appropriations, and i hope you will take action on this. what are we gonna do now, what's our scenario? in my view, the compromise is unacceptable, mainly because of the inadequate assessment of kosovo, which means that we are throwing taxpayers' money around without any seriousness. that is why, as far as i am concerned, whatever the decision of the committee on budgets, if we were still to compromise, i would abstain on this budget. the main thing, my colleagues say, is to reduce payment appropriations. would we, would you? i don't know, man. we'll see what you have to say later. what we voted for in the committee on budgets and what is proposed to you is simple. firstly, we do not use article 272 to avoid being strangled in terms of payment. second, we're going to the maximum of category 4. without financing kosovo, except to the full, adding the carryovers that will be presented, of 115 million, that is to say, by making the treasury, month by month, of mr mingasson, of mrs schreyer. we are doing the cash for kosovo, we are giving them the means to pay month by month what they have to do and we expect a serious, comprehensive estimate of the needs for kosovo and the needs for the balkans. and then we meet again, with the council, with the commission, to finally address the central issues, that is to say, a satisfactory estimate for kosovo, an overall estimate for the balkans and then a revision of the financial perspectives, a satisfactory estimate for the balkans. here's what we do. this is not a war plan, it's a cooperation plan. we need three more months before we have a satisfactory estimate on the table, and we shall see you again. so here's our scenario. madam, don't take this as a declaration of war, but if, like the marquise de merteuil to the viscount de valmont in dangerous liaisons, you respond to our vote, well, war, this war we don't want but we would fight it. at that time, in 2001, we would have recourse to rule 272 on reasonable grounds. but that's not our scenario. we are offering you a cooperative scenario with a delayed agreement of a few months, and in any case, for the commission, the certainty that kosovo will be financed. i thank you, mr president, for your patience.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. mr president, mr bourlanges, the proposal you are making is, let us say, reasonable. it allows €115 million to be made available for funding kosovo, pending a realistic assessment of needs, covered if necessary, by a brs vote next spring, and that is a good thing. we also had to save 150 million, in other words, further budget cuts on our lines under heading iv to finance new priorities: timor, turkey and the fisheries agreement with morocco, which are not exclusively the responsibility of the union's external action, but we accepted it. these are, it must be said, very heavy sacrifices, especially since this proposal provides for a 35 million drawdown of echo's appropriations, a drawdown presented as a loan, and the repayment of which seems highly random, but we will fight for it. so, of course, i support it with a little enthusiasm, you'll understand, but i support your proposal. i simply want to express, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, my deep concern about this 2000 budget, which, in the absence of a revision of the financial perspective, is making the poorest countries bear the full costs. however, we agree with the position of the committee on budgets and, ladies and gentlemen of the committee on budgets, i wish you good luck with the next trilogue.
- mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, commissioner, like mrs buitenweg i am also new to the budgetary field, but i know as well as everyone else that every budget is, by definition, the expression of political will. but in view of the latest proposals which have come to our attention after weeks of laborious negotiations between parliament and the council, i am very much afraid that our political will will appear to be at least blurred and uncertain, particularly as regards external action, the main subject of the dispute. there is a singular discrepancy between the union's loud proclamations of its ambition to play a more aggressive role in solving major international problems on the one hand and the carpet-selling discussions we are obliged to have with government representatives when it comes to finding the funding for new priorities on the other. at first reading my group had spoken out against any reduction in the appropriations allocated to old but still important priorities - and in particular the appropriations for cooperation and development in the countries of the south - to finance these new expenditure: to dress paul by undressing peter has never been a sign of great political creativity. we have therefore voted in favour of a reasonable revision of the financial perspective over several years, and the proposal by our general rapporteur, mr bourlanges, to request such a revision for chapter 4, was in the right direction. my group therefore supported its strategy of holding the council to account: either we obtain the financial means to meet our political commitments, or we have recourse to article 272 of the treaty, which allows us to determine ourselves - albeit within strict limits - non-compulsory expenditure. but, concession after concession, we find ourselves today, in the name of the iron logic of the budgetary stability pact, first with estimates and financial needs for the reconstruction of kosovo mysteriously falling from 500 million euros - a figure put forward by the commission, the world bank, the member states and the media - to 420 million and then to some 300 million, secondly in the face of a reduction in the appropriations we had voted for east timor and for the victims of the earthquakes in turkey, thirdly in the face of cuts in the appropriations allocated to cooperation, food aid, aid to palestine and the countries of the southern mediterranean, the tacis programme for eastern europe, support for human rights, and finally, faced with total cuts in the payment of some 2 billion in appropriations. this is certainly a less bad result than the original council position, but what responsibility would we have if we accepted such a compromise? i will give just one example: tomorrow we will be honouring mr gusmão, leader of the resistance of the people of east timor. will we tell him that we are at the same time agreeing to cut by a third the aid for the reconstruction of his country? that is why, mr president, we think that this compromise is unacceptable and my group cannot support it.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for the financial year 2000 will inevitably result in an increase, and this increase will be greater than that of the national budgets. how is it that the union's budget is exempt from this rigidity which europe imposes on our states? i am happy to speak of the atypical character of the european construction, but we must nevertheless avoid having two weights and two measures depending on the subject. have we forgotten that it is always the same citizens who finance, whether it is national budgets or the community budget? as usual, the requirement of efficiency to justify the european union's action is once again undermined, and i will not go back on the political choices that have been made, nor on the bargaining that has shaken up the bulk of the budgetary discussion between the council and parliament. we have denounced them from the first reading of this budget. i mention this because it seems to us to be a constant in community policy. the example of agriculture is very interesting. agriculture was the common policy, it was the cement of the european construction and it is now the big loser in the budgetary discussion. we cannot accept that. this is yet another price that europe is paying for its inconsistency. the race to world prices and higher yields has put at risk what we hold most dear: the quality of our food and the survival of our rural jobs. it is our quality of life that is being sold and this will also have a cost tomorrow. these are the priorities which we think it would be better to finance, rather than multiplying programmes which some consider obscure. the president of the court of auditors yesterday in this chamber, moreover, referred to the persistence of a 'spending culture within the community, which is more concerned with the volume of expenditure than with its quality'. in fact, europe is doing no good by wanting to do too much. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
- mr president, madam president-in-office, between the first and second readings of the draft budget for the financial year 2000, we added eur 3.5 billion, which means that in the end we added eur 3.5 billion in taxes. it would be a small amount if this money were not wasted in europe and, above all, outside europe. in europe, the funds for the reconstruction of kosovo would have been saved if it had not been destroyed - starting with the false massacres attributed to the serbs, as the osce has just admitted. moreover, to finance kosovo, 110 billion euros are diverted from rural development: in other words, our peasants are stripped naked to clothe albanians, in the name of the principle 'others before ourselves'. it is not very healthy, as is the fact that we have been devoting 50% of our debates since this afternoon to talking about a province of the serbian state which is not a member of the european union. it is true that the european budget does worse when it is spent outside the european continent: 10 million euros for central asia, 14.5 million for the uprooted people of latin america, 4 million for human rights in southern africa and timor, etc. it would be nice if, in the meantime, we did not consider reducing by eur 5 million the credits for our beekeepers, who are also competing with imports of adulterated honey from abroad. and while we are spending here, social austerity is being imposed in our 15 countries. french nurses and hospital doctors, who are the pinnacle of competence, are on strike today because budgetary austerity is cutting hospital and health expenditure. this is all the more shocking because we are currently paying 45 million to acp banana producers, some of whom are american multinationals based in cameroon and côte d'ivoire, and who are receiving 45 million from this european budget. so it is a silly expenditure, which is added to the expenditure on the consumer, which is added to the expenditure on ideology: it is too much, it is too much and it is enough to vote against.
- mr president, whatever the budgetary tricks used to finance aid for the reconstruction of kosovo, the council, like parliament, refuses to address the real problem, which is that the reconstruction of kosovo, as well as the equally necessary reconstruction of serbia, should be financed from the military budgets of the states responsible for the bombing. it is also from these budgets that the sums needed to compensate the neighbouring states, montenegro, albania and macedonia, which have all suffered from the war waged by the west in the region, should be drawn. if nothing excuses milosevic's past and present policy towards the albanian people of kosovo, nor towards his own people, the crumbs thrown away for the reconstruction of kosovo alone, crumbs that are out of proportion to the money spent on the war, cannot conceal the fact that once again western intervention in the balkans is not only not solving the problems of this region of the world, but is aggravating them. the already poor countries of the region are becoming even poorer, the living conditions of their people are worsening and the bombs have certainly not put an end to the opposing chauvinisms. the point of our refusal to vote on the bourlanges report is both to denounce the limited and ridiculous nature of the aid envisaged, but also and above all to denounce the policy of the western powers in the balkans.
- mr president, i did not understand anything. i did not understand the first point. mr wynn asked a specific question. you have been asked to specify your solemn declaration at the end of the debate this afternoon, which said, if i understood the translation correctly, that the council was opposed to a permanent review - i will not say what a permanent review is, but since you say it, you must know what that means - a permanent review 'for the time being'. it doesn't mean anything right now. mr wynn asked you, madam president-in-office, whether 'for the time being' meant that the council was opposed to a revision of the financial perspective for the year 2000, which seems to us to be perfectly consistent with the compromise which is about to be reached, or whether 'for the time being' meant something more vague? we asked you to answer, you told us you answered, you answered something that was incomprehensible. so, clarify, enlighten those of us who do not have the intelligence to understand the esoteric words.
- we are grateful to mr valdivielso de cué for the work he has done on this report. however, we have tabled a number of amendments, some of which have been accepted by the commission, but i would like to stress here the points which we would like to see adopted, although they have not been adopted so far. firstly, we fully agree with amendment no 51, tabled by mrs krehl on behalf of the pse group, which, in view of the war the russians are waging in chechnya, aims to grant aid only in the area of democracy and social development. secondly, in so far as we grant credits for the restoration of nuclear power stations, we want them to be linked to the closure and replacement of these plants, whose lifetime we do not wish to extend. we therefore tabled amendment no 48 and we recall that the wording of it, as indicated here, was accepted by the liberals. thirdly, we want to support integrated projects which have an environmental connotation and which, although smaller than national projects, retain a local and regional dimension in order to allow better control of the funds allocated. finally, we believe that 25% of the appropriations for investment is excessive and we would like to see a limit of 2% for investment in pilot projects, although a larger percentage could be used for experimental projects. we thank you for your consideration of these proposals.
- mr president, as globalisation is shaking our certainties, it is very difficult, in a world of the short term and disposable, to have a general vision of the future. the new millennium, a beautiful marketing product, seems to want to last only one night on new year's eve and not to awaken our consciences to great projects, to great ideas. is climate change the great challenge of the century or a good, low-value, early-year resolution? it is difficult for us politicians to come before our fellow citizens arguing for political decisions that have been planned for more than ten or twenty years. but are we not also women and men who have accepted responsibility? the debate on climate change is not a second-rate debate. we have created this world, so it is up to us, the industrialized countries, to set an example. can't commerce, with a capital c, become more reasonable? is it possible or impossible for the world's states to reconcile economic development and health without appearing naive or simply possessing unnecessary common sense? the european bubble must not forget the developing countries, and we must achieve a balanced partnership between all the countries of the world and between economic players. the candidate countries must be involved, and they will have to align themselves with european environmental standards. the issue of climate change and related apocalyptic visions are a powerful, global way to draw attention to the dangers of pollution. the melting of glaciers and the tropical storms are all caused by greenhouse gases, which are directly and largely caused by our factories. we had to wake up the consciences. floods and storms were promised to men and women sitting comfortably in front of their tvs, protected by what they thought was economic development and a temperate climate. climate change and the angry nature that wants to take back its rights are frightening to the states that say: we can't continue like this. to stabilize the climate and reassure the inhabitants without using too much the notion of environmental protection - which we wanted to leave to the ecologists - we are stirring up the kyoto protocol, mad cow, dioxins and the debate on gmos. climate and gastronomic horrors fall into the same category and make societies wary of uncertainty, of what they cannot control. businesses and governments now know that nothing can be done without the environment and the principle of sustainable development.
- mr president, i think we all in this house agree that the process of reducing, or at least stabilising, co2 emissions is an environmental necessity for our planet. the european union took the lead at the rio conference in 1992 and at the kyoto conference in 1997. today, it is essential that the commission continues to pursue a bold and ambitious policy in this area. she still needs to be able to convince her partners. and when i say 'convince its partners', i am perhaps referring first of all to convince the european union's own countries, because europe is speaking, but are the 15 member states of the european union prepared to make the necessary efforts and to respect and implement the many directives we are voting on here in this house? so we must raise awareness among the 15 countries of the european union and our partners. it has already been said that the united states is always reluctant to this kind of policy and ambition. it is therefore important that the european union be strong in the face of the american congress, that it be strong also in the face of japan, that it also succeed in convincing countries such as russia. you see the enormous work we have to do, the work we are faced with when we are discussing the enlargement of the european union and we have to convince the enlargement countries that we have to take account of our environmental ambitions. finally, to raise awareness among our fellow citizens, because i believe that is how we will make progress. i am not particularly in favour of introducing energy taxes. i do not think that taxation can systematically solve environmental problems. i believe that the european union has a real duty to raise awareness and to provide information so that our behaviour can change in the european union. that is our ambition for the europe of tomorrow.
- mr president, madam president-in-office, madam commissioner, i thank you for your very clear words on global warming. but let me say, as my colleague has said, that i do not entirely agree with what you have said about progress in the fight against global warming. i will simply say that the conferences on global warming follow one another and resemble one another, because the question we can ask is: how much longer will we have to wait for so-called natural disasters before we really take into account the harmful effects of global warming and, above all, its consequences for the economic and social development of our societies, here in europe, but also elsewhere in the world. you don't have to be a scientist to see that global warming is happening. floods that cause more and more damage are also signs to be taken seriously. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. all these undeniable signs are red flags, daily reminders of the urgent need to take action and concrete measures to combat global warming. it is therefore surprising how little attention is paid to these various conferences. apart from a few environmentalists who are genuinely concerned about global warming, the general public is indifferent. worse still, under pressure from powerful nuclear lobbies, nuclear energy has almost been recognized as a renewable energy source, which would have been a great achievement. in conclusion, i believe that we are far behind in the fight against global warming. we are very far from that, and yet it is up to us to set an example here, whereas in rio we are supposed to be the vanguard.
- mr president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, of course kyoto is one of the great challenges of the 21st century. but how we deal with the issue of climate change can also be very significant for the civilization of tomorrow. i would like to see parliament express once again its reservations about the system of polluting rights, the flexibility mechanism, because if we want to solve the enormous problem of the greenhouse effect, we cannot put our finger in this gear where everything can be bought and sold and where you can buy the polluting rights. it is a system that does not represent our values and creates profound inequalities. i take as an example what is happening in the former soviet union, in russia today. the country, because of its decline and development, now has a huge potential to negotiate its rights to pollute. and on the side of the rich countries, the americans, who have imposed on us this so-called mechanism to implement the kyoto decisions, firstly, do not apply them, and secondly, they are in a position to negotiate with russia the so-called pollution rights. the richest pay for the underdevelopment of others to keep them underdeveloped, to spare themselves the effort they might make. this is unacceptable and europe must say so. it must also say that, independently of the americans, it will ratify the process without putting its finger in the gear of the rights to pollute. i hope that the commission will contact russia so that it does not engage in this face-to-face with the americans and that we find other ways with it. finally, europe must act. it must act in its member states, but at community level. i suggest that europe and the commission take two initiatives. the first is that the major work initiated by jacques delors on railways, on major non-polluting transport infrastructures to replace lorries and cars, should finally be able to move forward, financed by the european union. secondly, in the field of motor vehicles, beyond the standards we have adopted, we have a strategy for renewing the old fleet, a fleet which pollutes considerably more compared to the fleet of recent vehicles.
mr president, the great absentee of the 1987 agreement between portugal and china, the great absentee of the handover which is being prepared, is indeed, as the previous speaker said, the people of macao. the people of macau were not consulted, and why? the portuguese presence in macao is not the result of an unequal treaty wrested from a weakened china in the 19th century by force or the threat of force, mr patten. the portuguese presence in macau is the result of a formal treaty. four hundred and forty-two years of continuous and peaceful presence have forged economic, cultural, spiritual, family and political ties. even in portugal's darkest hours, the people of macau have remained loyal to portugal, and it is this loyalty that has earned its council the name of leal senat, loyal senate. those are the ties you're about to break. today at least, mr. soares, we don't pay for words. you are abandoning the 440,000 inhabitants of macau to communism without giving them a chance to express themselves freely. macao and timor were part of the same diocese. paradoxically, it is at the same time that the people of timor gain independence that the people of macau reinstate slavery. as the french fabulist says: "as you become powerful" - like communist china - "or miserable" - like indonesia today - "the court judgments will make you white or black". you speak of restitution, but we only return what was illegally taken. you speak of the local population: what guarantees do you have for their rights and, for example, for the religious freedom of catholics in rome, which the communist government does not recognize? you talk about maintaining a european presence in macau. i am very much afraid that this presence will be like that destroyed cathedral which dominates the city and of which only the facade remains: a vestige, a chimera, an alibi for the abandonment of the west, gaping openings which once gave access to a harmonious construction and which now open only to the wind.
- mr president, this is absolutely a point of order.
- article 51, and also articles 180, 181, annex 6 and annex 15, that is to say, the articles which relate, mr president, to the revision of the rules of procedure.
- mr president, mrs grossetête's report on orphan medicines meets an important need and has the merit of providing an immediate, albeit imperfect, answer to this question. it is true that the lack of real research on these so-called rare diseases is detrimental to thousands of patients. however, this report raises a number of problems, which i should like to highlight. firstly, it only takes into account private research and that of the pharmaceutical industry, as if they alone were capable of finding therapeutics for research into medicines. no support is given to public research or non-profit organisations, which might also be able to find therapeutics. the second problem, and perhaps the most important, is that - although it is mentioned in the preamble - this text does not address a fundamental problem, which is research for non-rare diseases, but where there is no market for the pharmaceutical industry, in particular diseases affecting populations who cannot afford to pay for their treatment: these are, in particular, tropical diseases, or even malaria and even tuberculosis. no incentive, no treatment is suggested, which is dramatic in view of the millions of deaths caused by these diseases. it is essential that parliament and the commission address this issue in the coming months, because the lives of millions of men and women are now worth far more than the profits of certain companies.
in writing. - i must say that i am pleased to see that we have finally got out of the impasse in which the discussions between the european parliament and the council on the socrates ii programme were plunged, the european parliament having been able to show itself very firm in its position during this long conciliation procedure. i would simply point out that the basic proposal of the european commission for the renewal of the socrates programme dates from may 1998! it took more than a year and several meetings of the conciliation committee to reach agreement on this programme, which aims to promote the quality of education by promoting cooperation, increasing mobility and developing the european dimension in all education sectors, in order to complement the actions of the member states in this field. it is not necessary to reiterate the enthusiasm aroused by this programme! i would stress that it has enabled the mobility of several hundred thousand european citizens in the education sector, such as university students and professors, school heads, teachers, pupils and education decision-makers. in addition, the programme has supported hundreds of transnational projects for the development of the european dimension and the improvement of the quality of higher and school education, language teaching and learning, etc. it was therefore legitimate to extend and develop it by providing additional budgetary resources. this is what the european parliament proposed when it suggested a budget of eur 2 billion for this multiannual programme, while the council had proposed eur 1.55 billion. after lengthy negotiations, the council agreed to €1.85 billion for a period of 7 years. the council also agreed to insert a revision clause relating to the financial consequences of the accession of new member states, which will make it possible to define the financial implications of enlargement in the context of co-decision, with parliament having a say on a strictly equal footing with the council. we also obtained an evaluation report analysing the concrete results achieved by this programme. the commission also proposes to simplify the procedures for selecting projects. this was essential because it would prevent programmes being blocked for more than two weeks in the event of an objection from a member state. the initial arrangements did not provide for any time limit, which meant that projects could be delayed for up to two months. the conciliation committee also reached a compromise that the socrates programme will contribute to the development of a 'european dimension in education and training' rather than a 'european education area' as requested by parliament or 'educational cooperation', a weaker formulation initially favoured by the council. i must say that i regret the lack of will on the part of our ministers. this is all the more incomprehensible given the need to develop the concept of european citizenship among young people. the education system has a key role to play in this area!
in writing. - i welcome this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 093/94 on the production and use of substances that deplete the ozone layer. i believe that it is high time that new measures were taken to protect the ozone layer. the situation is indeed alarming! the decline in stratospheric ozone levels is one of the most serious environmental problems we face. a decrease of 6 to 10% has been recorded since 1980. in 1996, the hole in the ozone layer over antarctica extended over 20 million square kilometres for more than 40 days. in addition, the depletion of the ozone layer over scandinavia, greenland and siberia has reached an unprecedented level of 45%. this has a negative impact on human health, causing a decrease in immune defenses and a resurgence of skin cancers. in addition, it is causing particularly worrying disruption to ecosystems. we need to act quickly, especially as we know about the substances that deplete the ozone layer (hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs) used mainly in refrigeration and air-conditioning systems, as solvents and for the production of synthetic foams used for insulation purposes); methyl bromide, primarily used for the fumigation of agricultural land to control pests and diseases of plants, classified by who as 'highly toxic', chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs), used in refrigeration systems and previously used in the manufacture of synthetic foams, solvents and propellant gases for aerosols; halons are used for firefighting, particularly in sectors with very high fire-extinguishing requirements (in aircraft in particular) and as non-hazardous substitutes. every effort should therefore be made to eliminate the substances concerned and to use substitutes. this is what the proposal under discussion today proposes, even if it is not as voluntary in terms of timing as we might have hoped, as the rapporteur has pointed out. that is why amendments to this effect were tabled, which were, in most cases, rejected by the council. the council's attitude is truly regrettable. i think the objectives proposed by the committee on the environment are achievable, since there are alternatives. for example, the council proposes that in 2008 production of the substances in question should not exceed 35% of 1997 production. the commission also proposes that the production levels be reduced to the following levels: below 75% in 2001, below 55% in 2004 and below 30% in 2008. the commission is also proposing that the ceiling for 2014 should not exceed 15%, while the council's proposed ceiling is 20%. i deplore the council's lack of ambition. this is all the more regrettable in this area where it is not only a question of protecting the environment, but above all of protecting people's health!
in writing. - the swiss people had spoken out a few years ago in favour of controlling the transit of heavy goods vehicles through their territory. the conditions for the movement of heavy goods vehicles are strictly regulated, which allows a choice in favour of a real quality of life in the alpine valleys, a positive measure for the environment and for the people. far from welcoming this effort to protect the environment, the european union has only one objective in its bilateral negotiations with switzerland: to get switzerland to abandon its regulation, under the pretext of hindering free competition and unequal treatment between european territories. the logic of profitability therefore takes precedence over ecological and social considerations. we have examined with great interest proposals to develop alternative, non-polluting transport, such as railways. the report, in its present form, is strongly in favour of the all-truck in switzerland to the detriment of other modes. we therefore do not agree with this logic and will vote against this report.
in writing. - i can only agree with what has just been said, namely, that seattle's failure is far from a victory! the balance sheet we have to draw from these abortive negotiations is very mixed! we should welcome the emergence of civil society concerns in international trade discussions, thanks in particular to the mobilisation of ngos, trade unions and other associations. in this respect, the seattle ministerial conference was a real turning point in the functioning of the wto. while previous rounds have been conducted in the utmost discretion between informed negotiators who have regard only to the commercial interests of their country, the next round, the start date of which remains unknown, can only be conducted in a transparent manner and by integrating into the debates all the themes that have a connection with trade, namely social standards, the environment, consumer protection, culture. and it is to deal with these changes that the wto needs to be revised. it was not set up to manage so many portfolios. furthermore, it was created by nations to serve their own interests. the new situation requires full participation of the developing countries and the least developed countries, which was not the case in seattle, hence their legitimate discontent. good intentions must be reflected in the way the wto works. we must therefore start thinking seriously about the revision of the wto. the european union must play a leading role in the forthcoming discussions. as we have seen, it has established itself as an indispensable link between the united states and the developing countries. we should also highlight the initiative of the european parliament delegation to create a parliamentary body within the wto. this will be only one element in the reform to be carried out, but it will reduce the democratic deficit which characterises the wto. the european union must also prepare for further negotiations which will begin as early as next year! the european union, which had prepared very well for the discussions and whose position remained very consistent, did not give in to the agenda it wanted to see adopted, namely a broad agenda beyond the agriculture and services themes, as the united states wanted. however, it is on these two issues alone that discussions will have to start as early as next year, in accordance with the marrakesh agreements. we must therefore be very vigilant in these negotiations, which are proving difficult. lastly, and this is a very positive point, our negotiator, pascal lamy, has been able to win with his foresight, sensitivity, knowledge and authority. this is extremely positive for the future.
in writing. - a number of us in this house, in the debates which preceded seattle, felt that europe should first demand an assessment of the previous cycles and the establishment of a shared diagnosis with the developing countries, before embarking on a new cycle of liberalization. we were told that time was running out and that nothing could delay the start of the millennial cycle. would it not have been better to start at the beginning, to be a little more modest and to listen a little more to the opinions of citizens and peoples who are not particularly convinced by the record of this wto, by the results of its work, in view of the worsening development inequalities between the north and the south? we were a few of those who warned against an opaque wto with eyes bigger than the belly, which pretended to impose its decisions and choices on everyone, in all areas, based on its own criteria, far beyond legitimacy. we have pointed out the refusal to do so in many countries. should europe not have started by calling for a reorganisation of its organisation and functioning and a clearer delimitation of its sphere of competence in compliance with other international bodies and conventions, in particular on the environment and social rights? we said that it was no longer possible to follow the wto without understanding the need to put the precautionary principle, cultural diversity, social rights, environmental protection and the reduction of development inequalities at the top of the agenda. but we'll have to do it now. seattle is a failure for those who wanted to continue headlong in the race to free trade and the commodification of the world. it is a victory for the citizens' movement in its diversity, of the same type as the one that led to the rejection of the ami. a strong protest movement has arisen against a wto which, in its rules and structure, has favoured private interests at the expense of collective interests. what has been called into question is not the existence of rules to organise world trade, or the existence of a world trade organisation per se, but the fact that the wto claims to be the source of all rules, the arbiter of all things, the supreme judge of the world of tomorrow. this social movement, which has been expressed by a number of ngos, civic associations and trade unions, has called for a new form of globalisation, one that is not dominated by the single logic of blind profit in contempt of people and societies. europe must build on this movement, on this new world public opinion, to promote a different regulation of the world economy, based on the redistribution of wealth and on a different balance between what is the responsibility of the market and what must remain the responsibility of democracy, between what is the responsibility of free trade and what must be the responsibility of cooperation. europe must promote a multipolar vision of the world of tomorrow, encourage the creation of large, economically and politically integrated regional groups which enable people to control their own destiny and to play a role in globalisation, rather than being subject to the domination of mega-multinational corporations resulting from mega-mergers. if europe cannot rely on this movement, on this refusal to treat the world as a commodity and on the aspiration expressed in seattle, the only thing that will remain for the peoples who reject this destructive globalisation is to retreat into nationalism. from this point of view, the deviations made in relation to biotechnologies, which were a potential challenge to the protocol on biodiversity, are all the less acceptable because they did not correspond at all to the european mandate and the position adopted by parliament. a new balance must be struck between the international organizations. a global environmental organisation must be created and given real powers. the ilo must be the appeal body for decisions that call into question fundamental social norms. the unced is the most legitimate framework for dealing with the issue of foreign direct investment in accordance with the democratic right of states to legislate on environmental and social matters. the wto itself must be subject to public control: ngos, trade unions and parliamentarians must be able to exercise this control. is it not in the nature of things, is it not normal, given what we represent for each other in this house in terms of conviction, of the current of ideas, that the left and the right cannot completely agree on these questions? there is no point in trying to achieve convergence at all costs, which can only be artificial and at the expense of clarity of position. it would have been better if all the left groups had sought to express themselves together, while respecting their plurality, but i am convinced that it was possible to bring together a european left with a plurality of voices, whose voice is needed in europe. that is why, mr president, i regret the choice of a compromise resolution between the epp, pse and eldr, which does not in any way help to draw the lessons of seattle or prepare for the future, and i shall vote against this text.
in writing. - the bonn conference was held a few days before the wto conference in seattle. the unrestrained liberalization of trade, orchestrated by the wto and the major industrialized countries, is in total contradiction with the policies essential to the protection of the environment. it is therefore not surprising that, as the proposed resolution notes, the member states of the european union have not taken the necessary measures to meet their kyoto commitments while, at the same time, systematic deregulation is taking place in europe. the european union has to sweep up its own dust: there are no regulations to limit carbon dioxide emissions, like the regulations on local air pollutants or products that degrade the ozone layer. the opening up of rail freight to competition, which has just taken place, runs counter to the european development policy needed for this mode of transport.
in writing. - i voted against the draft resolution on the labelling of food produced from genetically modified organisms, because its sole purpose is to give the commission a green light to propose a regulation establishing that when gmos are present in a food below a threshold of 1%, labelling indicating their presence would not be compulsory. this would be contrary to the position adopted by the european parliament on 14 may 1998, when it called for mandatory labelling in the event of the presence of gmos, irrespective of the percentage of gmos. today the council is asking the commission to be more flexible on the grounds that in some cases industries cannot avoid a minimal accidental contamination of their products by genetically modified material during transport or processing. the problem is real, but the solution proposed to us seems unacceptable, even temporarily. the real solution lies not in tolerating a lack of consumer information, but in increased efforts to separate genetically modified products from conventional products throughout the production process. i maintain that labelling should be compulsory, regardless of the amount of gmos in food, and even if it is minimal. if the manufacturer has any doubts, the following must be added: 'this food may contain genetically modified organisms'.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and in particular its chairman on this motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs containing gmos. i must say that i share the view expressed in this text that the legislation in force in the european union on this particularly controversial subject is not up to the standards of the necessary protection and information of consumers. given the uncertainties surrounding gmos, we must be very vigilant and apply the precautionary principle properly at all stages of our action. as regards the labelling of gm foods, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 1139/98 on food and food ingredients intended to be offered to the final consumer as such, wholly or partly obtained from: - genetically modified soybeans, as referred to in decision 96/281/ec; - genetically modified maize, as referred to in decision 97/28/ec. the foodstuffs concerned are subject to additional labelling requirements laid down in this regulation. however, foods which do not contain proteins or dna resulting from genetic modification are not subject to these requirements. the commission's new proposal aims to fill these gaps. it concerns the accidental contamination of a product with dna or proteins from genetically modified soybean or maize crops. labelling should become compulsory as soon as a component of a product contains more than 1% of such a substance. as the motion for a resolution states, the text proposed by the commission is far from sufficient. it is based on a sectoral approach to the labelling of food products containing gmos, which, on the contrary, requires a global and coherent approach. the european commission must make new proposals for novel and non-gmo feed in order to give consumers the opportunity to make an informed choice. i also fully support the requirement that the regulation in question should contain a revision clause with a time limit, so that it is possible to lower the maximum 1% content threshold within 12 months. the european commission does not provide any explanation for this figure. at a time when european consumers have been traumatised by the food crises we know, we must take all the necessary measures to reassure them and give them the means to control their eating. this is their confidence in the european consumer protection policy.
in writing. - the debate is long. i shall not now go into all the arguments used to show its importance. i will not be pessimistic, but i will not despair, because in life there is always room for action, "to change things". i will simply say two things today. firstly, it is unacceptable to see the domination of money, which allows the countries that can afford it to buy the poorest the right to pollute! it is unacceptable, it is immoral and it is criminal for the future. secondly, while a great deal of effort is being made in the automobile sector to reduce pollution from new engines, a very ambitious european programme should be drawn up to eliminate rapidly the old car fleet, which is often very polluting (i am not talking here about collector cars). in this area too, i believe that "where there is a will, there is a way".
- i call mr gollnisch to speak on a point of order.
- i am sorry, madam president, but i shall not be very long; in fact, i shall be very brief. i shall return, in a spirit of calm and not of controversy, to the incident which took place at the end of the vote because of this recall to the rules of procedure which i base on articles 180 and 181 of the rules of procedure. what happened earlier? a colleague has spoken out against a provision of the rules. mr martin, after hearing it, decided to put it to the vote of the house. i do not question mr martin's ability - which is great - to preside over our proceedings with great speed, but - like other members of this parliament - i question a practice which, although general, seems to me to be in complete contradiction with the letter of our rules of procedure and with the spirit of parliamentary institutions. i simply want to say this: the regulation is the guarantee of minority rights. the amendment of the regulation is not a matter of a majority of circumstances: it is, in the terms of our own regulation, subject to extremely strict conditions. it must be put forward. this proposal must be discussed before the committee responsible. the committee responsible must appoint a rapporteur, the rapporteur must report and the amendment, if adopted, can only be approved by our assembly by a qualified majority of more than half its members. in this case, it is only applicable immediately at the opening of the next session. these guarantees are absolutely essential for the proper functioning of our parliament in particular and of any parliamentary institution in general. i think that the practice - somewhat anglo-saxon if i am speaking of legal sociology - of subjecting the perfectly clear provisions of the regulation to majority decisions is an absolutely detestable practice. that is what i would have said to mr martin if he had not, in a manner which i consider uncourtesy and not in accordance with the requirements of democracy, respect for the rights of minorities and parliamentary practice, decided, without even hearing me, that the remark i intended to make in relation to rules 180 and 181 of this parliament was not a reminder to the rules of procedure. here again, it seems to me that our vice-president has failed to observe the rules of his office, both in my regard and in that of the member who spoke earlier and in that of other members who wished to speak, notably mrs muscardini, whom he refused to allow to speak and whom he even threatened with expulsion. i wanted to raise a very firm but very calm protest before you, madam president, and the president of parliament, and i hope before the bureau of this parliament, against what i consider to be an excess of power.
mr gollnisch, i take note of your statement, which will be considered by the bureau and which will in any case appear in the in extenso report of the proceedings of this house.
- mr president, your concern has already been expressed by other colleagues and sometimes even by departments. we will pass it on to the computer department and the president will discuss the matter with the bureau.
- the agenda calls for the continuation of the debate on oral questions to the commission and the council, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, and on the follow-up given by the union to the beijing action programme.
- madam president, i am making the speech that my colleague geneviève fraisse was supposed to make, who is also joining mrs theorin's protests this morning. i am glad that the european commission feels it has a responsibility in the follow-up to the beijing conference. but you still have to be precise to be effective. the same is true of the situation of women today in terms of equality: education, citizenship, employment, as well as freedom: habeas corpus, the fight against violence and trafficking in women. so we have to be specific. i believe that the following conditions are necessary if this european meeting is to be a successful occasion and not a place for a few good words. a european conference can be held in parallel with a un meeting if, and only if, it gives europe an internal policy on the one hand, and if it shows a common determination within the framework of the un dynamic on the other. nine indicators were developed under the finnish presidency, to which i am grateful, to assess women's access to decision-making. would it not be wise to generalize these quantitative methods? statistics on sexes must be compiled in all areas. it is therefore necessary to develop additional indicators to measure inequality situations in fields other than politics. could we also draw up a comprehensive review of the means which europe as such has been using for several decades to build gender equality, particularly in terms of compatibility between family and professional life, and to combat all forms of violence against women? without a common indicator, no serious evaluation of the measures taken by the member states will be possible. the february 2000 conference could have as its objective this policy which is both concrete and structural. the future enlargement of europe, confirmed by the helsinki conclusions, raises the question of whether the candidate countries will respect the criteria for building gender equality and the criteria for promoting women's freedom. in these countries and elsewhere, the role of ngos, especially since beijing, has become indispensable. the commission must be a partner worthy of the work undertaken by these associations.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the commission statement on the follow-up to the french government's decision to maintain the embargo on british beef.
- thank you, chief.
- i'll make you a deal. i just got word that commissioner byrne won't be here for a good half hour. so we have two options: either we continue the debate as it began in his absence, or, and this is what i propose, we postpone the item we started by putting it on the agenda for 9 p.m. tonight. i shall put this proposal to the vote and it is essential that each member should make an informed decision: either we keep the agenda as it is or we meet at 9 p.m. to discuss the council statement. of course, mr papayannakis, your report will follow this statement, so it will have to be in the evening.
- i would remind you that if i propose 9 p.m. it is because it is a tradition, and i believe in the rules of this parliament, that when a joint debate is started on three reports, as is the case for example with the von wogau, rapkay and jonckheer reports, we are obliged to go to the end of that discussion. it is not my intention to bypass the debate, but the need to ensure that our rules are respected. since my proposal seems to be generating as much reaction as if i had not done any, i suggest that you resume the motions for a resolution.
- colleagues, i owe you an information. it was the conference of presidents which proposed the change in the agenda. this was voted by our assembly on monday. it is therefore in accordance with this vote that the agenda for today is being drawn up.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing legal competence, mr monti is as competent as mr byrne to express the view of the commission, which decides collectively. if this is a matter of scientific competence, mr byrne is as incompetent as any scientist who does not know what prions are. we don't know that. if this is a matter of common sense, it is that french consumers do not want the few pounds of british meat involved, and the discussion will not change anything. so this is a psychoanalytic problem. our british colleagues are saddened. the sooner they get their outlet, the sooner we start the psychotherapy by listening to them, the sooner they have a chance to settle down. so let's start the debate right now to calm them down.
- i propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you take a decision on the proposal which has just been made. are there 32 members of the house to support this proposal? (parliament agreed to the request)
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the commission statement on the action to be taken on the decision of the french government to maintain the embargo on british beef.
- i'm willing to admit i was wrong. you'll put it down to the fact that i'm the first woman vice president. i should have voted for it. it seems to me, however, that the house would probably have confirmed the decision that has been taken. i would like to apologize to you for this breach of procedure and i will try not to repeat it. commissioner byrne considers that, as his statement has been read by commissioner monti, we can now start the debate and that he will have the opportunity to answer the questions of our colleagues at the end of it.
- madam president, by refusing to lift the embargo on british beef, the french government has preferred to face a one-off and temporary crisis with its european partners rather than risk the outbreak of a creutzfeldt-jakob disease scandal in a few months or years. this decision is based on the scientific conclusions of the french food safety authority which, while recognising that progress had been made, noted the persistence of potentially serious risks, as evidenced by the persistence of the disease. the seattle effect also played a role in this decision, with the rise of the precautionary principle and the primacy of health in the market. today, i believe, it would be useless to add fuel to the fire or to exacerbate feelings of anti-french or anti-english sentiment. we have to keep our heads. the french authorities have taken this decision because there are insufficient guarantees as regards the definition and implementation of the test programmes and, above all, because there are no regulations at european level on labelling and traceability. on the basis of these elements, the efforts made in recent weeks - which no one disputes - must be clarified and supplemented, in particular by the introduction of a mandatory labelling and traceability system from the producer to the consumer. this would of course reassure the consumer, but it would also help to combat the diversion of traffic in triangular trade. should we not also, beyond this specific case, work to impose the primacy of the precautionary principle over all other considerations in trade, both within the union and with third countries? in fact, is it not on the basis of a similar approach to that of the french government that the commission and the council are rightly continuing to oppose the lifting of the embargo on hormone-treated beef from the united states, despite the wto's injunctions?
- madam president, my dear british colleagues, we are faced with a scientific, political, legal and moral problem. first, scientifically, the disease is caused by an unknown agent. it's not bacterial, it's probably not viral, although german professor diringer thinks it is, it's due to a mysterious prion. second, there is no ante mortem test. thirdly, the disease did not disappear despite the ban on flour. fourth, we found mites on the feed that are full of prions. so the disease can be spread through fodder or grass, which may make your land cursed and may ban cattle ranching forever. so, for now, science can't tell. you're sending the ball back to the political camp. politically, it's a question of hierarchy between commerce and health. what's the priority? sell or live? most countries in the world, including your american cousins, your canadian cousins, including your australian friends, your new zealand commonwealth friends, they tell you they want to live first and sell second. so you're asking for sanctions and making it a legal problem. legally, there are two problems. the hierarchy of norms, first. should we give priority to the principle of free movement or to the precautionary principle? it is true that in the case of bst, which is not dangerous to human health, we have given priority to the precautionary principle, which we also advocated in seattle. so there remains the second legal problem, a problem of legal liability. you are guilty because you created the disease in the first place. we have taken the financial risk for two years, but we cannot take the health risk. there remains, then, a moral or theological problem, which is already found in st thomas aquinas, antigone and creon: must the natural law take precedence over the law of men? well, it turns out that with the law of men, you've created both an epizootic and a zoonosis. i remind you that the last child to die from your disease was 13 years old. well, we don't want to die. so, on the last level, the religious level, your minister of agriculture came to us two years ago in the agriculture committee and said that this was due to god. well, as christmas approaches, rely on god, hope that santa will offer us a test to diagnose and try to ask god for forgiveness, but in this case you have to repent... (the president cut the speaker off)
- i propose that we continue the debate and ask our colleagues to interrupt their deliberations, which are nevertheless connected with the difficulties on the agenda which arise in view of the postponement of the debate we are holding.
- madam president, commissioner, mr monti has just told us that the criticisms of those who sought dialogue were unfounded. i fully share that view. i would like to say a word at this stage of our debate from the three interlocutors, the first being, of course, the british government. i think we should welcome the efforts for dialogue that have been made on both sides of the channel. we must welcome the efforts made by the british side since the mad cow crisis to improve the situation, to improve food security. part of the way has been completed, but it is still only part. i want to see this as proof of the rumor that in british schools parents are regularly told that there was no beef on the canteen menu. clearly, trust has not yet been fully restored. the action that france has taken with others, in the presence of others, must contribute to resolving this crisis situation once and for all. the second interlocutor in this case is my government. what principle has france sought to promote? i think that is the famous precautionary principle that we talk about so much and that we are collectively trying to define. it is also the search for essential food security which cannot be silenced by the logic of the market alone. you can imagine how easy it is, how easy it is to flatter public opinion. i believe that the decision my government has taken is first and foremost a decision of political leaders and that is how a government should act. yes, to govern is to choose and my government has chosen. what would your governments have done, ladies and gentlemen, if, following an expertise, your national agencies had indicated that there was a risk? political power has to choose and my government has done so, by making a political decision based on a risk assessment. so, with regard to this agency, i only wish for one thing: to have the expertise of a genuine european agency so that tomorrow we will be in a different position to conduct this debate. i would like to say to my predecessor in this debate: yes, in france we apply this precautionary principle. have you noticed that following the advice of this agency, our french food safety agency, we have removed some cheeses, because of cases of listeriosis? and then, in the negotiations, we had, you remember, five points. we have been satisfied on three points and, commissioner, we still need guarantees on two. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. can we imagine that tests have meaning without us knowing how they are actually implemented and how their results are applied? that is what we are asking you to do, commissioner. secondly, i am well aware that behind the struggle france is waging, there is also a struggle in the interests of the british people and in the interests of the european union as a whole. today, in this debate, commissioner, you are our interlocutor and we have four requests to make. first of all, you take responsibility. it is not with a cheerful heart that my country has put itself in the position of being condemned and brought before the court of justice today.
- mr commissioner, we thank you for your statement. the debate is closed.
- mr president, i am the last speaker, so i will not repeat what everyone else has said. i should like to begin by replying to my english colleague, since there are not many of us here, without wishing to provoke a controversy. i have already said in this house that the british and irish farmers are in a difficult situation: they must be helped. we'll have to identify who's paying and we'll have to do the accounts together. if france has to pay - the court will perhaps decide - politicians will take responsibility. but we must not forget that those who have not respected the rules for the processing of flour and who have put us in this situation must also pay. i'm sure we won't have to forget them. i would simply like to point out, commissioner, that the political commitment of 1997 should not be called into question. why is the council backing down? who are the pressure groups? when you consider what has happened in the meat sector throughout europe and what is still happening in other countries today, i have questions. are there pressure groups to go back, to go back on what has been done at the level of the industry, labelling and also at the consumer level in order to clarify things? can you tell us, commissioner, what proposals you have made to the council? because normally, if i am not mistaken, the commission makes many proposals to the council when there are discussions, as was the case yesterday. how do you want the consumer citizen to understand this backsliding? why does the council reject parliament's proposal? it is certainly not budgetary measures. the mention of the slaughterhouse and the traceability code, i think the council is going against it and will take its own responsibility. i agree with my colleagues today that parliament must make this known. i am counting on you, commissioner, to ensure that very soon, and this will be the gift of the end of the year, that is to say, of the end of 1999, you will not leave parliament, i hope, with a disappointment like this as we enter the year 2000. you can still intervene and you can still change the council. the second point i would like to draw your attention to before we start the year 2000 is this: let us not wait, as we did this year, for november or december to put the final regulation on the table, which must allow for its application as quickly as possible, as mr papayannakis' excellent report foresees.
- mr gusmão, allow me to say, on behalf of the european parliament and on my own behalf, that it is an honour and a great joy for all of us to welcome you to our chamber. it was with deep emotion that we learned of your release on 7 september, only three months ago. since your incarceration on november 20, 1992, you have shown admirable and difficult courage throughout your detention. you have retained your inner freedom, despite the treatment you have been given, especially psychologically, to try to prevent you from defending yourself. during your trial you had the skill and found the strength to denounce before the international press the genocidal character of the occupation of east timor. despite the very difficult conditions of your incarceration, you found the courage to use these circumstances to develop strategies of resistance, to study languages and law and also to write wonderful poems and paint pictures which you had the great delicacy of giving me earlier. let me take another step back to give you a better idea of our assembly. you are from east timor, the eldest of a family and the son of teachers. you studied at the catholic mission of nossa senhora de fatima. you started working as a teacher very early. before the age of 30, you joined the staff of the timorese newspaper a vos. at the same time, you were actively involved in the central committee of the resistance movement fretilin, the revolutionary front for the independence of east timor. when indonesia invaded your country, you went into hiding. after three years, you took the lead of the falintin guerrillas, the armed wing of the resistance movement. according to the press, the repressive occupation has claimed 200,000 victims, a third of the population. mr gusmão, you have tirelessly sought ways of a peaceful settlement. you have proposed a peace plan to the indonesian government and talks under the auspices of the united nations. you have united the various forces within the national council of the timorese resistance, seeking to lead the struggle for a free east timor, regardless of party. you can be sure that our european parliament is proud to have contributed, by participating in the pressure exerted by the international community, to the release of mr habibie, the indonesian president, on 7 september last, shortly after the referendum of 30 august in which 70.5% of the population of east timor voted in favour of independence. the european parliament, through its mission chaired by vice-president pacheco pereira, welcomed the courage shown by the timorese people in the eyes of the world. like mr mandela in south africa, you are the spokesman for peace, justice and freedom for your country. your compatriots and the international community know that it was with a firm conviction that you said on your release from prison: 'as a free man, i pledge to do everything in my power to bring peace to east timor and my people.' at the moment, as you were saying just now, everything has to be built or even rebuilt in terms of logistics and training, for the health, justice and public services sectors. the transitional administration that the un is going to establish will be a basis. mr gusmão, you said that you wanted a pluralist democracy with open institutions, a diversified economy, a role for the press and non-governmental organisations. we hope that the experience of 25 years of suffering will enable your people to realize this dream. it is a particular pleasure for me to mention the fortunate influence of the sakharov prize on the fate of its candidates. among the latter i have in mind mr ksila from tunisia and mr birdal from turkey, who were released a few days after their appointment, as well as mr mandela from south africa and mr dubek from the czech republic. as for ms suu kyi and ms zana, i have again spoken to the authorities in their countries to protest against the draconian conditions for their release. all these personalities have taken up the torch carried by andrei sakharov, making the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms the goal of their lives. i am therefore very pleased, mr gusmão, to award you, on behalf of our entire european parliament, this highly symbolic prize. (applause from the left)
the sakharov prize. - (pt) dear mrs nicole fontaine, president of the european parliament, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a great emotion for me to be here today before you, the elected representatives of the european citizens. i must confess that when i returned to east timor i was appalled by the ruins of systematic destruction and i had no idea that i would come to strasbourg and have the rare opportunity to know and walk the halls and halls of the democratic power centre of europe, a europe which has shared with us the pain and suffering of genocide, but also the courage and strength to resist destructive and murderous action. i would like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of my people, the members of the european parliament for the attention and solidarity they have shown by adopting countless resolutions in support of the exercise of the right of self-determination of my people. by naming this prize after sakharov, we pay tribute to a man who fought hard for freedom of thought. nothing characterizes a human being more than his ability to think. to deny anyone the freedom to think and express his ideas is to deprive him of his human dignity. freedom of thought is a fundamental right of every human being. in europe, it has become one of the fundamental pillars of citizenship. in totalitarian regimes, oppressors suppress and suppress freedom of thought. in indonesia, our experience has shown that the regime of orde baru, led by suharto and his generals, which occupied my homeland for more than two decades, the methodology of repression and suppression was based on the imposition of a doctrine, pancasila, which standardized thought and, therefore, human action, in an attempt to destroy the ability to think individually, collectively and, above all, freely. this doctrine permeated the whole of indonesian society and was also carried over to east timor, accompanied by a systematic action of physical torture and mental conditioning. but ironically, these actions had the opposite effect: they strengthened the identity and determination of our people. after the fall of suharto in may 1998, the way was open for a solution to the east timor conflict and for the democratization of indonesia. i would like to take this opportunity to pay a sincere tribute to all the sakharov prize winners, first and foremost to aung sang suu kyi, one of the great figures in the struggle for freedom and democracy throughout the world. (applause from the left) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of our most basic right to choose our own future as a free and independent country was fraught with tragic consequences, but our people have not hesitated to show, once again, that they are firmly determined to defend their freedom. after months of terrible pain and suffering inflicted in a particularly brutal manner, murders and the irrational destruction of our homeland, the maubere people are preparing to rebuild. the tasks that will confront us all are innumerable and the responsibilities enormous. the transition period will begin with a first phase of rehabilitation of the infrastructure, which has been completely destroyed, during what we call the year of 'emergency', the year 2000. the reconstruction will not be only physical, it will not be only material. reconstruction will also concern the social, political, economic and, above all, the human and psychological aspects. only the interaction of these different components can guarantee a gradual recovery, at all levels, as well as the concrete and overall preparation of timorese society for independence. nor should independence mean a president, a flag and an anthem. independence must guarantee the benefits of freedom to the people who have fought and suffered so much. the massive participation on 30 august must continue so that the timorese people feel themselves the agents of development. there will be no development without democracy. (applause from the left) in parallel with the material reconstruction, we must promote civil society, human rights education, education in democracy and the correct conception of justice. we need your support. east timor will need more than financial support. we are in a difficult phase, a crucial one, because we are or we feel at this moment very fragile and very weak, as we prepare for independence which represents a new life for our people. it is in this sense that we remain confident in the support of europe, a support which is oriented towards preparing the timorese to the correct perception of universal values, so that we do not betray, as a last resort, the suffering of our people. we are entering the transition phase towards independence with untaet. since the arrival of the special representative of the un secretary-general, we have been consolidating the mechanisms of consultation which give the timorese the opportunity to express themselves in this transitional process. but i have to say that we still don't feel safe. we are still feeling weak and this is where the european parliament and all the other institutions can help us, with support other than financial support. we want to learn to be responsible to the international community in the development of our country, but after a long period of political activism and struggle, we now feel that a heavy burden is on our shoulders because we are responsible for the happiness and freedom we promised our people. (applause) i would like to thank for me, this prize represents the european parliament's recognition of the courage of my people in the struggle for a free homeland where thought is assured as an inherent right of the human condition. my people deserve this recognition and it is on their behalf that i wish to thank you for the honor you have bestowed upon me. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- mr gusmão, the very warm applause of my colleagues shows you how much they appreciated the very strong words you have just spoken, very strong and very responsible. they have confirmed to you, if necessary, the support and solidarity of our european parliament for the cause of east timor. i can assure you that on the new road that is now open to you, that is to say the road to independence, which you have told us will be difficult, i can assure you that tomorrow, as yesterday and today, the european parliament will be at your side and that we will accompany you with all our strength in this very exciting adventure. thank you for coming, thank you for being with us and thank you to the colleagues. (applause) i would like to thank
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- mr poettering, i can see that only the names of the holders appear in the minutes. i propose that at 3:00 p.m. the names of the alternates be announced. it will therefore be included in the minutes tomorrow.
- we'll put things right. anyway, for the votes, it's your card that counts, of course.
- mr martínez martínez, i can tell you that the same error is not only in the spanish version, but also in the french version. we shall of course correct matters and re-introduce question 9.
- we'll be very careful about that. are there any other comments on the minutes?
- mr president, the only thing i can tell you at this stage is that if there are any special needs and if any members wish to come during this period, they will let us know and the necessary arrangements will be made so that they can have access to the building and to the facilities of their offices. i'll see if i can widen that. but at any rate, for the moment, you know that if you want to come individually and you have reasons to do so, it can be arranged. (the minutes were approved)
- we shall now proceed to a number of votes and we shall postpone our budgetary votes somewhat, because, as you know, we are waiting for confirmation of the agreement with the council, which is still in the process of final deliberations. we hope that he will be inspired, and only after this reflection will we be able to discuss our budgetary votes, so that we can take a position on the basis of the council's response. report (a5-0090/1999) by mrs theato, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the appointment of eight members of the court of auditors (c5-0231/1999, c5-0232/1999, c5-0233/1999, c5-0234/1999, c5-0235/1999, c5-0236/1999, c5-0237/1999, c5-0238/1999 - 1999/0820 (cns))
- very well, thank you, mr fabra vallés. we wish you good luck. (parliament adopted the eight resolutions by successive votes)
- thank you, mr poettering, i think your intervention is entirely justified and i would be happy to include it in the conference of presidents this afternoon.
- i'm sure you are. mr poettering did not oppose the vote on this report, but as you wished to speak, i gave you the opportunity.
- mr. ribeiro e castro, we'll see about all this in the conference of presidents.
- we'll be looking at all of this at the conference of presidents this afternoon. madam commissioner, pursuant to rule 80 (5) of our rules of procedure, i would like to know what the commission's position is on the amendments proposed by the european parliament to mr murphy's report.
commission (de) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr liikanen explained yesterday during the debate, the commission can adopt amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7-17, 19, 21, 22, 24 and 26. the commission can in principle approve amendments nos 6, 20 and 25. the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 18 and 23.
- thank you, commissioner. so we shall now proceed to the vote. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
- i'm sure you will, mr papayannakis. i think that is an excellent suggestion and i shall now give the floor to mrs siimes.
counsel. - madam president, i can confirm that the council formally and definitively adopted yesterday the overall compromise submitted to the committee on budgets.
- mrs siimes, what you've just said is very encouraging, but that's for now. (applause) mr papayannakis' question was about something else, about his report. this is the registration of cattle and the labelling of beef.
- would the commission like to make any clarifications? (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
- thank you, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for that very clear but nevertheless very worrying explanation. mr papayannakis, do you think we can still vote, or do you want to refer the matter back to committee? what's your position?
- i couldn't agree more.
- count on me, mrs jackson, my pen will be very firm, on behalf of all of you.
the council has not yet adopted the budget, and i would like to ask the commissioner to confirm that the council has not yet adopted the budget. (applause from the left)
- i thank the president-in-office of the council and i give the floor to our rapporteur, mr bourlanges.
- i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for this very clear statement, and i would point out in this connection that by making it in advance this is, throughout the budgetary procedure, the only time the council has managed to be not only on time but ahead of time. i must say that i have rarely seen a budgetary procedure of this kind, where until now - and until this positive declaration which makes it possible to conclude the agreement - we were still faced with two possible voting lists: a list which would have been drawn up in agreement with the council and a list which would have been drawn up on the basis of a lack of agreement with the council. now, ladies and gentlemen, as soon as we have voted on mr colom i naval's report, which will reflect the implementation of the flexibility instrument, we will be able to vote on the list of agreements with the council, and i want you to know that nobody is more pleased than i am. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, mr bourlanges.
- thank you, we'll take note. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the commission - madam president, i would just like to say three things. first, that this vote was very beautifully conducted by you. i would also like to thank you, madam president, for your willingness to preside, when your health should have kept you in bed. well, you have come to chair this vote and to sign the budget, and i thank you for that on behalf of, i believe, the whole house. (applause) i would like to thank our vote illustrates an often-verified adage: difficult procedure, easy vote. the more difficult the procedure, the better the problems are solved when we come to the vote. it was, and i must say that everyone who took part in this procedure has a kind of miraculous impression of the ease of this vote after the difficulties of conciliation. i think that the european parliament has obtained about 75% of what it wanted. as we represent 50% of the budgetary authority, that seems to me a reasonable percentage! i would like to say to the president-in-office of the council and to the commissioner that, despite the roughness and difficulty of the procedure, i am deeply grateful to them for the efforts made by the two institutions they represent, and also by ourselves to some extent, to achieve this result. it is this result that counts and we can be satisfied that we have reached an agreement. finally, i would like to repeat what i said at the end of the first reading, namely that we all have a deep appreciation for the services of the committee on budgets which have been expended - that is the right word - which have been expended without counting during this double procedure, first and second reading, and to which i believe our assembly owes a deep gratitude.
- thank you, mr bourlanges.
- thank you, mr virrankoski. - i'll see you in a bit. the commissioner would like to say a few words. i'll give him the floor.
counsel. - madam president, you have just finished the second reading of the draft budget for the financial year 2000. there are still some differences between our institutions as regards the classification of expenditure. however, the council is able to accept your amendments to letter of amendment no 2/2000 and the maximum rate of increase resulting from the second reading.
- thank you, madam president of the council. i, for my part, would like to congratulate the committee on budgets and our rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done. i would like to say that this is the first budget i will sign as president of the european parliament and i must say that i am very pleased with the excellent result that has been achieved. i would like to congratulate and thank once again all those who have contributed to this report.
- i hadn't noticed, but it's a fact. (applause) the millennium is ending well. (immediately afterwards, the general budget for 2000 is signed) (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, just now our president signed this budget of over 90 billion euros. i would like her to sign, even if it is modest, the payment orders for the taxi drivers who brought the parliamentarians here. i remind you that a taxi driver who drives us here earns about 10 000 ff per session, that is to say about 1 500 euros. but he won't get paid for three or four months! and in the meantime he pays 20.6% vat, which means he gives this parliament a cash advance. but a cash advance of three to four months, of about eur 5 000, means that if he had put that money in the bank and given the free movement of capital which we have authorized, he would have lost about ff 1 500 a month. i was glad that everyone was kissing, mr colom i naval, mrs fontaine, but our taxi drivers and chauffeurs are not allowed to kiss. i remind those who brought them here in november that they will not be paid until march. i think that this concerns you as much as it concerns all of us. i would like to see not only the beekeepers but also the taxi drivers to share in the joy of mrs fontaine and of parliament, which has, it is said, won a victory over the council.
in writing. - for the second time this year, eu credit is being used in the balkans. the budget for the reconstruction of kosovo was the main difficulty in the second reading. the conflict between parliament and the council, which has been the subject of much discussion in recent weeks, should not make us forget some essential questions: as regards the aid granted to the province of kosovo, it is surprising that it is not conditional on a definitive return to peace, which is unfortunately not the case, as a recent osce report points out; as for the amounts allocated, the members of the committee on budgets witnessed a real bargaining process between committees, with the institutions juggling the millions of euros, without anyone really bothering to assess the needs of the region, everyone agreeing that kosovo could not currently absorb such sums, equivalent to half of its gdp. in this respect, we must deplore the lack of rigor on the part of the commissioner responsible for the budget, who, when questioned by the committee on budgets, was unable to give a numerical estimate of the amounts needed in euros but only in dollars. all this is not very serious and would even be laughable if, at the same time, the union's budgetary policy and the risk of a revision of the financial perspective did not appear to be so contrary to national interests. the same is true of the strict budgetary discipline imposed on the member states, whereas the union does not impose such a rigorous approach on itself, and this 2000 budget will cost the states a great deal of money, the agricultural line once again bearing the costs of the increase in external actions. the concern of european farmers is understandable in the face of the new priorities set by all the institutions. to whom do you really devote yourself? the commission certainly does not, as it demonstrated in seattle, nor does the council, which is making a dark cut of eur 450 million in compulsory expenditure at second reading, nor does this parliament, which, through the voice of its rapporteur, intends to call into question the existence of compulsory expenditure. the budget is a founding act reflecting political choices. we reject these choices and will vote against the 2000 budget.
mr president, if the commission had wanted to prove that france was right to maintain its embargo on british beef, it could not have done better than to present today's dossier on labelling. we have been told at times that the embargo is not really necessary and that it is enough for beef to be well labelled so that the reasonable consumer does not buy beef from britain. this is a strange line of reasoning, since it would be tantamount to agreeing to send consumers to their deaths if they misread the labels. that would be an unacceptable resignation of the state. but in any case, this excuse is overruled by today's dossier, since we are learning that the obligation to label beef is going to be postponed again. what is it ? at the beginning of 1997, in the midst of the mad cow crisis, the council decided to introduce a system of identification of bovine animals from the place of production and meat labelling, which was initially optional but was to become mandatory from 1 january 2000. however, as the fateful date approaches, the commission admits that nothing is ready and that the obligation cannot come into force for another year. this means that today, after years of neglect, we are still unable in the european union to ensure effective traceability of beef. a french consumer importing ravioli from italy cannot possibly know that they do not contain british mad cow meat. it is astonishing that the commission should dare to take france to the court of justice for maintaining its embargo in the face of such negligence. never before have we seen more clearly than now how, in the single market, the free movement of goods takes precedence over all other considerations. it is true that the french government has allowed itself to be legally trapped by accepting the treaty of amsterdam, which tends to deprive it of its right to protection. but this right is sacred. it is never too late to take action and take it back to the commission. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - we are dealing here with the labelling of beef, as we were dealing with the labelling of gmos. in fact, labelling has become the tool to do everything. thanks to the label, food safety would reign supreme, the consumer would be protected and our green colleagues would be satisfied that they had ensured the survival of food for mankind... in reality, labelling is one of those deceptions which european leaders use to appease the anxieties of our fellow citizens without actually solving any problem. the labelling of gmos should have been a warning. we don't know what to put on the label. for example, should we put "product of biotechnology"? in this case, if it is "organic" and also "techno", the consumer rushes to it. but it is with the labelling of beef that the european commission shows its long nose as a community pinocchio. this is the institution in brussels which introduced beef labelling in 1997 and which now explains that it is not technically able to identify the origin of the cattle. if the origin of the cattle cannot be identified, how can we be sure that british meat is not dangerous? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in other words, in the same week, france cannot be forced to lift the embargo in the name of ensuring the traceability of meat and refuse labelling in the name of the technical impossibility of tracing cattle. in fact, who can believe that since 1997, after three years, we have not been able to label meat with the indication of the origin of the beef? in particular, if one is able to indicate the location of the slaughterhouse, which is already the case, one cannot be unable to indicate the origin of the slaughtered bovine animal. in reality, the european commission is making a mockery of consumers as citizens. brussels wants only one thing: to ensure the free movement of goods, capital, immigration and now contaminated british meat. at any cost and without any hindrance. the labelling would, of course, lead to the result we all know: the de facto boycott of british cattle by consumers who do not want to compromise what is left of their brains after having gobbled up the news. the slogan of the european commission and of all the construction work that has been going on since the "europe of the brain-dead fathers" is "profit before life". so much so that the only label that would bring security would be to say: "official from brussels".
- mr president, the most striking feature of the european council just held in helsinki is the absence of any long-term political vision on the part of the heads of state or government, who decided on an unprecedented enlargement with the possible addition of thirteen new members, without at any time giving the conceptual tools to imagine the institutional structures capable of taking it on. this time the contradiction is brought to a head by the addition of turkey to the list of official candidates. although the turkish prime minister said after the summit that membership of the european union was, for turkey, 'a birthright' - which gives an idea of the modesty with which he is prepared to push the door of the european union - it is clear to all observers who keep a free mind that this arrival would profoundly change the nature of the union. can we imagine, for example, a free movement of people between turkey and the countries of western europe, practically without controls as is the case today within the union? it is a fact that the heads of state and government who are supposedly responsible must be far removed from reality to imagine it for a single moment. however, they continue to advocate an almost unique solution, the extension of qualified majority voting, as the president of the french republic, jacques chirac, has just repeated to our assembly the day before yesterday. all confederalism repeats its traditional recipes, in a spellbinding way and without any imagination. we have the impression of an institutional system adrift, unable to imagine its future, unless the council does so without daring to tell us, and which seems to be trapped by the consequences of an enlargement decision which it is unable to control. the turkish prime minister boasted that washington had supported him in his bid to join the european union, and it is true that this intervention was effective. he even added that it would take, and i quote: 'less time than is thought before turkey is a full member of the union'. at this rate, it will also take less time than is thought before the union destroys itself. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- mr president, in 1998 the european commission launched a procedure concerning the crossborder agreement on book prices concluded between germany and austria. by means of this procedure, which was based on compliance with european competition rules, the commission was in fact seeking to challenge the single price for books system, which is used in particular to support literary creation and to ensure the survival of small publishing houses and small bookshops. the european parliament reacted strongly by adopting, by almost unanimous decision, on 20 november 1998 a resolution defending the single book price and calling on the commission to adapt its community policy on the agreement on book prices to cultural requirements. on 8 february 1999, at the instigation of the french and german governments, the council adopted a resolution, based on the european parliament's position, calling in particular for the continuation of the existing book price systems. the council and parliament's firmness led the commission to recognise that the competition rules could not be applied mechanically in the book sector. it therefore confirmed that it did not intend to challenge either contractual agreements concluded in certain member states or national legislative provisions such as the lange law in france. however, a few months later, after the new commission was set up, the directorate-general for competition again pressed the commission to take action against cross-border agreements and the single book price. in the face of this new offensive by the commission, which cannot help but express its desire to deregulate, it was important to react very quickly. i therefore welcome this debate and the new position of the european parliament on this issue. in its motion for a resolution, my group stresses that books are first and foremost cultural goods and should therefore not be subject to the rules of competition in the same way as all other goods. their specificity must be fully recognised in the framework of the cultural policy of the european union which we wish to see developed. we therefore hope that the european parliament will confirm its position of november 1998 in order to defend crossborder agreements and the single book price. why does the commission not accept our proposal to extend the possibility of the single book price system to all member states? in order to take account of technological developments, the e-commerce directive should also include the requirements of the various national laws on the single price for books, in order to prevent it from being circumvented. in conclusion, i hope that the council will show the same determination as the european parliament in safeguarding and promoting the single book price system which, as our resolution notes, improves the production and distribution of literary works better than any other system without eliminating competition.
- mr president, why mention the situation of women in afghanistan in the context of the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance? because, as one of those brave women who stood up and shouted to the world the abomination, i quote, "discrimination against women has become a common problem in the world today, but what women are experiencing in afghanistan is unique and unprecedented". so, yes, there is more than urgency! since 1996 there has been an emergency. terror and fanaticism have descended upon this country with the arrival of the taliban. women are their black beast and the hatred they unleash against them is inhuman violence. they are severely discriminated against, including girls. they have no right to speak, no right to health care, no right to work. they are forced to cover themselves from head to toe, i.e. to live in a mobile prison. they are beaten in the streets, just because they do not cover their faces and hair properly. in addition to physical abuse, there is evidence that almost all women living in afghanistan are experiencing psychological pressures that lead to depression or suicide. and the situation is made worse by the fact that girls cannot go to school beyond the age of nine. the direct consequences for all children are dramatic: one in five children do not reach the age of five. these living conditions are all the more unacceptable because in the past afghans participated in public life as students, members of the professions, civil servants and even members of parliament. this treatment, which is impossible even for a human being to conceive, is not a religious problem, nor a matter of cultural tradition, as some would have you believe. it's a barbaric system that locks women into this status of sub-human beings. this apartheid calls for a response on our part. we must stop these fanatics, greedy for power and supported in secret by the pakistani regime and its koranic schools, but also, unfortunately, by the us intelligence services. several women's organizations have long called on the international community to increase pressure on the taliban. the un and the european union rightly make their aid conditional on respect for human rights. as we do in the resolution which i join mrs morgantini in urging you to vote in large numbers, i call on the council not to recognise any regime in afghanistan as long as there is discrimination on grounds of sex and to react more strongly, at least as strongly as it did with regard to bin laden. in addition, ngos are present in part of the territory. they need help, and a real action plan needs to be put in place to support their work. we must also help the afghan women who are in europe where they are organizing themselves: they must receive our support and our help. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is with great emotion that we all joined in yesterday awarding the sakharov prize to mr gusmao, who is being held in prison by the authoritarian regime in jakarta. through him, the sakharov prize honours the struggle of all those who, throughout the world, are fighting for more justice, democracy and freedom. i would therefore be grateful if you would pay particular attention to the human rights violations in djibouti and, in particular, to the situation of political prisoners. as has been pointed out, many eu countries have very close relations with djibouti. yesterday, many associations in france protested vigorously as france was preparing to grant aid to that country again. it should be noted that for the last nine years, the bulk of the country's own budgetary resources has been devoted to financing the civil war. for seven months, salaries and pensions have not been paid. despite previous resolutions of the parliament, and the report of the international federation for human rights, which confirms the precarious conditions of detention of political prisoners, extortion, humiliation and attacks on the physical integrity of individuals are commonplace in djiboutian prisons, particularly in gabode. in this prison, 45 hunger strikers last may had no access to medical care. some of them died. prisoners' families are subjected to constant pressure and threats, women are raped and tortured. the army, police and gendarmerie are conducting military operations in the districts of tadjoura and obock and are subjecting the population to a suicidal food blockade in the north of the country. i would remind you that djibouti is a signatory to the lomé convention, which stipulates in article 5 that development aid is conditional on respect for human rights. and i believe that today, in a very strong way, this is due to freedom of opinion and expression, due to fair and equitable trials, due to access to basic health care for prisoners, due to the requirement for the return of refugees and displaced people to their regions of origin. i believe that the council and the commission must do everything possible to ensure that djibouti respects the conventions to which it is a signatory. i also believe that a political and peaceful solution must be found as soon as possible. i will simply conclude by saying that it is important that our presidency sends this resolution to the council, the commission and the acp-eu joint assembly. ladies and gentlemen, this century began with the great war and ended with the horrifying images of ethnic cleansing in the former yugoslavia and rwanda. i hope very much that today we will be uncompromising in the face of all the daily violations of human rights, because it is these small cowardices that produce genocide.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are particularly concerned about the human rights situation in djibouti. political prisoners are held in worrying conditions: crowded in cramped cells, isolation, lack of hygiene and medical care. the outbreak of tuberculosis has been reported on several occasions. two prisoners have already died from lack of medical care. political prisoners have started hunger strikes to protest their conditions of detention, to demand access to medical care and their release, in the absence of a fair trial. it should be noted that the majority of prisoners are in pre-trial detention without any judicial review. among the sick prisoners is mohamed kadamiousouf, the european representative of the front for the restoration of unity and democracy, who was illegally extradited from ethiopia in 1997 and who, in the absence of medical treatment, is in danger of losing his sight. since respect for human rights is an essential element of cooperation and development between the european union and the republic of djibouti, we call, in accordance with these principles, for the release of all political prisoners, access to medical care for all detainees - and in particular the provision of emergency care to mr mohamed kadamiousouf, who is at risk of blindness - the guarantee of freedom of expression and political pluralism, which are essential to any democracy, and an end to the repression of dissidents. we also call on the commission to use all the means at its disposal to ensure that human rights are respected in djibouti.
mr president, i am indignant at the conditions of detention of political prisoners in djibouti, but i am equally indignant at the hypocrisy of the leaders of the french state who could, if they wished, put an immediate end to the authoritarianism and the abuses of the djiboutian regime. because, after all, everyone knows that the french state is holding the djiboutian regime in check. without the financial support of paris, without the presence of one of the main bases of the french army abroad, the regime there would not last a month. the leaders of the french state, whatever their political label, insist on human rights in paris but support regimes in africa or asia which trample on the most elementary rights and freedoms. so, to blame the government of djibouti alone is, at best, to hide the responsibilities of the french government, but it is, in reality, to endorse a policy of support for an authoritarian and repressive regime. we can only join the protest against the conditions of detention of prisoners in djibouti by making it clear that, if the prisoners are there, the real ones are in some of the official palaces of the french republic.
- mr president, i shall speak about the natural disasters which struck the south of france on the night of 12 to 13 november 1999 and which were quite exceptional in their violence and the unusual scale of the damage: 35 victims and some three to four billion in damage. i know that the budget of the european union does not provide for a credit line for natural disasters occurring on the territory of the union. i must say that it is not lost on me that parliament itself wanted to abolish this credit line. i would ask you to intervene and ensure that the european union is still present, because it has the opportunity to do so. she can do it two ways. on the one hand, by allowing france to reallocate the remaining structural funds not committed under the 1994-1999 programming. we know that there are still a lot of appropriations: 54% of appropriations not committed under leader, 38% under interreg, 49% under urban and 88% under retex. it is now sufficient for the commission to authorize france to redeploy part of these appropriations so that it can intervene very quickly. on the other hand, it can do so by ensuring that, for the new programming of the structural funds 2000-06, the zoning for reconstruction is in place and that the most affected areas are covered by objective 2. i would like to conclude by saying that it is a bit paradoxical that our european union can intervene, which is perfectly legitimate, in countries outside the union, but that it does not have the means or the possibility to do so within the union. at a time when everyone, and especially mrs fontaine, is putting this parliament under the sign of bringing the citizens closer to the union, it seems to me important that the union should be able to make a concrete statement when our citizens are in difficulty.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we want the citizens of europe to feel attachment to the european union, then the european union must show solidarity with them when they are in trouble, as in the south of france. this region, in fact, experienced heavy rains and floods on the night of 12 to 13 november, which caused casualties, devastated its daily life, its economy and its agriculture. as soon as these events took place, i wanted parliament to express its solidarity with the victims by tabling an emergency resolution on 15 november. the rules of procedure have unnecessarily delayed it, so i have added my proposal to those tabled at this part-session on the same subject by other groups. i hope that this resolution will be followed up in practice and i ask the commission to consider measures which could bring relief to the people of tarn, aude, the eastern pyrenees and the hérault. i think that this situation should be taken into account in the zoning of european union aid. in future, i will of course vote for the emergency resolutions tabled by our colleagues when similar tragedies occur. i hope, of course, that there will be few of them, but in any case it seems to me essential that we, the elected representatives of the peoples of europe, should show solidarity and humanity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is in line with that of mrs de veyrac, because the catastrophic floods in the south of france result in a very heavy toll of human lives: 39 dead. the turmoil in this region is immense. in the four departments affected by the floods of 12 and 13 november, aude, hérault, the pyrénées orientales and tarn, the bill is heavy. it exceeds eur 0.7 billion and the compensation to individuals will reach eur 0.5 billion. damage to public property is estimated at over $200,000,000, with extensive damage to roads and railways, electrical and telephone lines, public buildings, and utilities. all sectors were affected, more than 200 craftsmen were affected, 260 businesses suffered heavy damage and 1518 employees were penalised. i would draw parliament's attention to the fact that this is indeed a natural disaster, that these floods and rainfall have been 20 times greater than in normal times. the problem is not, as some would have us believe, the result of imprudent local planning. this is a real natural disaster. that is why i would draw parliament's attention to the need to intervene in these areas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i naturally support the joint motion for a resolution tabled by my colleagues and i would like to draw your attention once again to the floods in my region, the far south of france. the natural disaster, of course, which caused the death of almost forty people and whose consequences continue to test the lives of some of our fellow citizens to this day. a month later, the decline, with the spectacle of devastation it revealed, confirmed the scale of the disaster, beyond human lives that require a prevention effort to be rethought. the needs are enormous, both in terms of private and public assets in terms of heavy construction and infrastructure and in terms of economic instruments, and - as has been pointed out - in the order of ff 6 000 million. faced with such an urgent demand, the state, local authorities and associations are mobilizing throughout france. as an example, and among many others, the general council of the eastern pyrenees voted for aid of 42 million francs, the languedoc-roussillon region for 50 million, the senate for 400,000 francs, and finally, the french government announced aid of 1.2 billion. you are no doubt aware of the proposals made by commissioner barnier on structural policy. they will help to ensure better long-term risk prevention, but i am speaking again today to ask the commission to show its willingness to show solidarity in an emergency. the legitimacy of our institution with regard to the european citizens is at stake, and the president, like all of us, is very attached to that legitimacy. finally, i would like to draw your attention to the pollution which is once again threatening the breton coast and which will require, as a matter of urgency, a complementary financial effort by the european institutions.
the commission has already indicated here on 16 november that it is following with great attention the problems caused by the floods in four departments in the south of france, that it deeply regrets the loss of human lives and that it is doing everything in its power to provide the disaster areas with the appropriate aid within the limits of its powers and possibilities. solidarity will certainly not be lacking. of course, we must have the authority and the ability to exercise it. the motions for resolutions call on the commission to intervene in various ways to repair the considerable material damage. this is also the hope expressed recently by the political leaders of the region, by mr prodi and by mr barnier. i must tell you that extraordinary emergency aid for families living in the affected areas is not possible. this does not require any special justification in parliament, because only parliament has the right to defend its budgetary rights. you know that for some years now there has been no specific budget line in the european community budget for dealing with natural disasters in the countries of the union. i believe that if we want to respect the rights of parliament, we cannot simply pretend that this state of affairs does not exist. the motions for resolutions on support for farmers as disaster relief can, however, be examined in the context of article 33 of regulation (ec) no 1257/99 of 17 may 1999 on support for rural development by the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund. the use of uncommitted appropriations from the structural funds for programming 1994-1999 can hardly be taken into account, since the available appropriations are already allocated to specific measures, in this case in close cooperation with the competent french authorities. the reallocation was undertaken at the request of the competent french authorities. according to the relevant commission departments and the french departments, this reallocation will result in all available community funds being used. as regards the new programming phase from january 2000, the four disaster regions in the departments in question, which are currently eligible under objective ii or objective v for the period 1994-99, or which are part of the regions eligible under the new objective ii, can of course receive appropriations from the structural funds. the commission can therefore, in the context of the next programming for the period 2000-06, which will soon be discussed with the french authorities, guarantee financial aid for the repair of eligible infrastructure and equipment, as well as aid for agricultural structures. in this connection, it should be noted that aid for the construction or repair of housing is not taken into account in the context of a structural fund intervention. secondly, account should be taken of the fact that any form of assistance from the structural funds must be subject, on the basis of the provisions of the regulation, to an ex ante assessment of the effects of the measures on the environment. in this respect too, parliament, which is particularly concerned about environmental aspects, would certainly not understand us giving up on them. let me add a comment on the problem of the regions at risk. once the damage assessment carried out by the french authorities is completed, the commission will also be able to provide specific support for protection against natural hazards through co-financing of investments under the new programming for 2000-06. this is particularly relevant to soil protection, river regulation and local water systems. let me conclude by saying a word about vietnam, because i believe that one of the most industrialized countries hit by a natural disaster is not treated in the same way as one of the poorest developing countries in the world. the european commission is fully aware of the tragic situation of the flood victims in vietnam. these are the worst floods in the last 40 years. the european union has released emergency aid credits. echo is currently analysing the situation in the affected areas to be able to assess the extent of the additional damage and the needs of the affected provinces. we shall then consider whether european aid to vietnam should be increased. the european union is cooperating with confidence with all international organizations dealing with the situation in vietnam. we are trying to coordinate the relief efforts as wisely as possible.
- mr president, i would not like to prolong this sitting. i would simply like to say to the group of visitors who are here and who are friendly visitors that it is not an effect of our malice that we interrupt the sitting for a quarter of an hour just as they arrive.
- mr president, i asked to speak before the vote to say that our group had tabled a specific motion for a resolution on natural disasters in france and that we are naturally co-signatories of the joint resolution. you didn't mention that. i would like to see the corresponding correction made.
- mr president, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, everyone here agrees that we need as accurate, reliable and consistent agricultural statistics as possible at community level, so that we can effectively measure the consequences of decisions taken under the cap, particularly in rural areas. european agriculture is not unique, but on the contrary very diversified. it is therefore essential that the statistics are sufficiently refined at the territorial level, on a harmonised basis, so that we can obtain relevant analyses by type of production and by ecosystem. in 1996, the european parliament adopted a report by our colleague jové perez, whose proposals were aimed at making european statistics much more precise and efficient. unfortunately, the commission's unambitious proposal before us has not taken any account of this. that is why we will support all the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development and by our colleague, mr jové perez. it seems to us essential that the wealth of information resulting from the implementation of cap aid be exploited as a statistical source. the cost to the community budget would be virtually zero and statistical confidentiality would be guaranteed by the aggregation of data. this is the same concern that motivated our group yesterday when it tabled an amendment on the traceability of beef, because for cap aid reasons all animals in the european herd must be identified. the same applies to slaughterhouses, for reasons of health and veterinary safety. i still do not understand why the commission has not accepted that, as from 1 january next, these two data, which have already been made compulsory in the community framework, should be used to allow the operational start of traceability. it is completely inconsistent to postpone the introduction of compulsory beef labelling for another year and at the same time condemn france's application of the precautionary principle precisely because there is no such compulsory labelling. the free movement of products, if not accompanied by strict labelling, is seen by the consumer as a fraud. it is regrettable that commissioner byrne does not put his zeal to work for the health and welfare of european consumers.
the rapporteur. mr president, as a member of the bordeaux elected body, i thought you were giving me the floor to answer my bavarian colleague on the subject of bordeaux wine. but no, it is on tajikistan that you are inviting me to speak and as i have five minutes, i will try to be as clear as possible on a subject which is perhaps a little esoteric and difficult. this is exceptional aid to tajikistan, which, as you know, is a small country situated between uzbekistan, kazakhstan, china and afghanistan. this case has a history and, in fact, today, what i am proposing to you is to close a case which was opened in 1991 on a loan of €1 billion 200 million to the newly independent states, at the time of the disintegration of the soviet union. it turns out that all but three of the member states have repaid this loan. in 1997, three states were in difficulty and had large arrears: georgia, armenia and tajikistan. in 1997, parliament was therefore presented with a commission proposal to reschedule and restructure the debt of these three countries. it was therefore decided to set up two types of financial assistance: loans, at the time €245 million had been earmarked for loans to these three countries, and a donation of €130 million, the main objective of which was to reduce the debt burden and improve the repayment capacity of these countries. 1997 is also a year, ladies and gentlemen, and we are entering the heart of the matter with a civil war in tajikistan, a horrible civil war between the ruling government and the islamic opposition. so parliament, on the basis of our colleague mr kittelmann's report, had proposed to defer aid to tajikistan and that is why, after two years, now that the situation has normalized, we are being asked today to reopen this dossier. the situation in tajikistan, which has remained extremely critical and worrying, both politically and economically, has been gradually stabilizing for the past two years. there was a peace agreement between the various parties, which was implemented and is generally respected, although security in that country remains in doubt because of the presence of warlords and a strong push of wahhabi fundamentalism in afghanistan. in economic terms, it is a country that has made very great efforts under the aegis of the imf and benefits from a structural adjustment facility from the latter. we are therefore asked, as the european union, to re-establish contact with that country and to re-schedule the debt, which is now about eur 73 million. what the commission is proposing is to replicate what was done for georgia and armenia, that is to say to provide a new loan to repay the previous one, but on much more favourable terms so as to give that country a little bit of oxygen, and to provide a donation of eur 35 million for the period 2000-2004 to alleviate the debt burden. however, i regret to say that the commission's proposal is highly contradictory. we are asked to make a loan of €75 million and a donation of €35 million, only to find that there are no more budgetary resources for donations and that in 1999 we only budgeted for donations to armenia and georgia, which are due to end in 2001. consequently, and quite logically, the committee on budgets pointed out to us, the committee responsible for industry, that we could not, under any circumstances, endorse donations which are not budgeted today and which are not in the financial perspective, in particular category 4, which you know is already under pressure to try to finance kosovo. so, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise we reached with the committee on budgets is, in effect, to retain only the loan of €75 million, while agreeing - a position of the committee on industry which was understood, i believe, by the committee on budgets - that tajikistan should also be able to receive additional aid to alleviate the monthly debt burden of €200,000, which is unbearable for that country. tajikistan is the poorest of the newly independent states, and it is essential to stabilize it, because, like chechnya and for other reasons, it is a country which can endanger the whole region, particularly because of its strategic position in relation to kazakhstan and uzbekistan, which are very rich countries. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments. first, amendments that validate the gift. then there are the amendments which refer the council and the commission to their contradictions by telling them that it would be desirable to grant direct aid, but by financing it through another line, i am thinking of tacis. finally, there are amendments on conditionality: control of the use of funds, political and democratic conditions and parliamentary control.
- mr president, we shall not vote on the savary report. this is due both to the choice of country and to more general considerations surrounding financial assistance. while we are of course not opposed to the sovereign state of tajikistan, we do not consider that the european states should abandon their priorities, or more precisely, the priority they have long set for themselves in the field of cooperation. this priority was implemented more than a quarter of a century ago by the lomé agreements. for obvious reasons, geographical but also historical, it became necessary for the europeans to engage in a major cooperation action with the african, caribbean and pacific countries in the 1970s, in a very original form known as the lomé agreements, to enable our partners in the south to benefit from stable prices for the foodstuffs from which they derive the bulk of their resources, this being protected from all-round free trade, which we see too much today, how it ruins the most fragile economies. however, under the blows, not of globalisation but of the globalist ideology, which the european nations have accepted without further examination, we have seen for several years the acp agreements slowly dismantled, their basic principles denied and, above all, we see the contribution of several european countries to the edf decreasing. at the same time, however, the number of financial aids, so-called exceptional, to the most diverse countries on the planet is increasing, without any overall plan emerging, so that our cooperation policy is no more than a vague and vast sprinkling, that is to say, in short, it is no longer a policy. to this particular consideration, a second is added. if tajikistan is now experiencing the economic difficulties mentioned in the report, as are so many other countries in the world, it is certainly the result of the reckless opening up of borders and the excessive play of empires. we see no better solution than the restoration of a new international trade order which respects the sovereignty of states, their pace and their development methods, and also their traditions, traditions which we will not be able to dissolve with a magic wand because we will have imposed elections, human rights and what we are too hastily calling democracy.
