mr president, before moving to the election of a president of this house, i should like to ask you to confirm that annex i of our rules of procedure is being abided by. annex i of our rules of procedure, article 1, paragraph 2, states that before a member may be validly nominated as an office-holder of parliament, he or she must have duly completed the declaration of financial interests. i would ask you to confirm that this has indeed been carried out.
(pse) – madam president, i know you, like me, will share the concern that this week offers no opportunity to express our interest at what is occurring in burma and, in particular, the sacrifice and suffering of aung san suu kyi who is our sakharov prize winner. there has been a troika visit to burma. i would urge you, president, as one of your first acts, to support the proposal that a political dialogue takes place urgently with aung san suu kyi and her political party.
madam president, may i say that i fully endorse your speech earlier in which you said that one of our jobs is to provide the public with information about the work of the institutions. can i invite you therefore under rule 38 (statements explaining commission decisions) to ask the commission at the end of today's agenda to come to this house and explain the decision that was taken yesterday to fine the french football authorities a derisory £650.00 for a clear breach of community rules. it is very difficult for anyone to understand what that message was from the commission, apart from to say that it is good news for ticket touts and bad news for football fans to suggest that people can actually get away with breaking the law providing they are prepared to throw a few coppers towards the european commission later in the process. so, may i ask you to invite the commission, at the end of today's proceedings, to come and explain that decision so that ordinary people can actually try and understand the thought processes which, i have to say, completely confound me.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no wish to interfere in a private german quarrel. (applause from the centre) (en) the i would like to congratulate germany on an overall successful presidency, although i dare to suggest that it would have been perceived as more successful if there had been a little less fussing. the recent council presidencies - austria and luxembourg, with their restraint - can teach larger member states such as germany and the united kingdom that the success of the presidency is sometimes inversely proportional to the effort made to achieve it. this has been a difficult presidency. the kosovo conflict began during the european council in march. the news that belgrade had accepted the peace terms came during your cologne summit in june; the commission's resignation ten weeks after taking office cannot have made life any easier. i would like to focus my remarks on three areas: employment, enlargement and citizenship. the problem of employment is a constant reminder of the failure of western democracies to act in an inclusive way, and i would like to welcome some very good new ideas that have been put forward during this presidency: member states should be allowed to reduce vat on labour-intensive services which do not have a cross-border impact; a renewed emphasis on research and development and a more imaginative use of european investment bank funds, such as in the case of the creation of the european technology facility; changes in work organisation and working hours to better distribute existing work. these are all ideas that came up and should be pursued. i regret that there has been less progress on agenda 2000. the presidency claims to have created the financial framework for the enlargement to the east. i hope so, but i think we have in fact backed away from the hard decisions on the agricultural reform. this will lead to problems in transatlantic relations and to a further delay in the integration of the central and eastern european applicant countries into the european union. but the most significant progress has been made in the area of citizens' rights. if we are to get this right, we need a new approach from the member states. if we are to build an area of freedom, security and justice - as we were promised in amsterdam - then we will need transparency. it is a shame that important documents relating to the third pillar have not yet been made public, but i would like to acknowledge mr fischer's personal role in this particular area and thank him for his help. amsterdam heralds a new beginning in the field of european citizens' rights. it was a courageous decision by the german presidency to put the idea of a charter of fundamental rights on the agenda and to promote it. the commission's pluralistic approach, its efforts to involve the european parliament and the national parliaments, can only serve the prospect of success. we in parliament, mr president-in-office, look forward to working with the council and the commission to ensure that the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens are enshrined in european law.
mr president, i believe that overall the german presidency was a very positive period. in particular i should like to thank them on behalf of the committee on regional policy, and indeed the socialist members, for the very good work that was done throughout that period on the reform of the structural fund process. we believe that we have a fair and just deal for member states. in particular i would like to thank the germans for not only pushing ahead for progress in peace concerning kosovo, but peace on the issues concerning northern ireland. this house will know that we have entered yet again a critical phase in the peace process in northern ireland. successive presidencies have backed that peace process. what i should like to say today at this inaugural session is that we hope to be able to count on our new commission president, on the finnish president-in-office of the council and indeed on madam fontaine to continue that good work in supporting the peace process and making a priority of peace in her visits to northern ireland.
madam president, mr president-elect, i represent the edd group, a small group in this parliament, but extremely democratic. i share the platform this afternoon with my french colleague and i share his concerns for the future role of this parliament. parliament, at the moment, does not appear to be very democratic. it appears also that members of parliament are not very concerned as the auditorium is now half empty. to get a democratic structure we have to change over the years so that parliament is not the servant of the commission but the commission is the servant of the elected representatives of the electorate of europe. until that happens there will be extremely low turn-outs at all future european elections. it would be better if the future of europe was entrusted to elected representatives who can be dismissed from office at elections and not to nominated bureaucrats in the form of commissioners. turning to mr prodi, i believe that half this parliament at least is disenfranchised because he was endorsed by the previous parliament and just over 50 % of us were not in that parliament. i would seriously suggest that he should put himself up again for reselection with his other commissioners in september. (applause ) in the long-term, i am convinced that, while the cart is in front of the horse – and that is the commission exercising greater policy-making influence than the elected members of this parliament – throughout europe people will remain apathetic toward this institution. in the united kingdom, we already have a very euro-sceptic electorate. we probably are the most euro-sceptic according to a survey conducted on behalf of the european union published two weeks ago. if mr prodi and his colleagues wish to remedy euro-scepticism and euro-apathy, i am calling for true democracy and for the elected representatives to have much more authority over the programme and policies of this institution.
member of the commission . – (de) honoured president, esteemed representative of the council presidency, ladies and gentlemen, it is inappropriate that the representative for the acting commission should make a full statement on the finnish presidency"s programme here, for this programme will largely be implemented under the new commission. permit me, therefore, to restrict my comments in the main to two issues, namely reconstruction in kosovo and the sentence passed on abdullah öçalan. firstly, i should like to remind you that from the very beginning, the european union was heavily involved in the endeavours being made to bring about a peaceful resolution of the kosovo conflict. the commission also provided humanitarian aid throughout the conflict. the european union is, as we are all aware, the largest donor. we gave financial aid to those countries most severely affected by the influx of exiles and refugees. now that the conflict is over, our immediate priority is to support kfor"s endeavours to restore peace and order and to reconstruct a functioning civil administration under the leadership of the united nations. the european union has a special task to fulfil in this respect. in particular, we bear the responsibility for the reconstruction aspects of unmig. jollie dixon, the acting special delegate for the commission appointed for this purpose, has now taken up his position in pristina and it is time to solve the huge number of practical problems. what has been provided so far in terms of aid? the humanitarian aid committed to kosovo and the neighbouring countries totals eur 378 million, with the bulk going towards providing essential foods and other goods such as medicines, sanitation equipment and accommodation. this aid is channelled through the unhcr, the international red cross, unicef and various ngos. this amount includes the eur 196 million currently being mobilised from the commission"s budgetary reserves. furthermore, eur 100 million were committed as macroeconomic aid for the damage sustained by other countries as a result of the kosovo crisis, 62 million being earmarked for albania, 25 million for fyrom and 13 million for montenegro. the first instalments have already been paid out. in addition, eur 45 million will be committed to kosovo through the obnova programme, a first priority of which will be to finance a delegation whose task is to ascertain the scale of material damage. the first set of findings will be available on 23 july. the european commission will then base its definitive aid programme on these figures. in addition, the budgetary requirements for reconstruction will need to be set in the course of the next two to three years, and the anticipated costs which the other donors are to incur will need to be calculated. the measures to be financed under the obnova programme as a matter of priority include such areas as mine clearance, obtaining materials for rebuilding houses and also public buildings, supporting public utilities and customs control, and a village employment and rehabilitation programme. working in conjunction with kfor, unmig and unhcr, these projects were prioritised and they are to supplement the on-going work undertaken by the humanitarian organisations. we hope to be able to commit the eur 45 million before the end of this month. as explained to the budgetary authorities in the trialogue of 2 july, an additional eur 92 million will still be required this year. it was agreed during this trialogue session that in september the commission will submit a proposal to increase the budget by means of an amending and supplementary budget which will raise the 92 million required. the funds are largely to be raised by reallocation, with as little utilisation as possible being made of additional funds. it was also agreed that both parts of the budgetary authorities will deal with this proposal in one reading. we are counting on receiving parliament"s support as far as this is concerned, so that the european community can continue to play a leading role in the reconstruction process. i should now like to say a few words on the issue of a reconstruction agency. before the cologne european council meeting, the commission proposed to the heads of state and government that a special agency should be set up which would deal with the implementation of the reconstruction work. the european council followed this recommendation and instructed the commission back in june to formulate an actual proposal on the basis of experience gained from bosnia. we at the commission proposed that the agency should be located in pristina, that is at the centre of reconstruction activity, where all the other international organisations are located. (applause) however, at the informal meeting of heads of state and government in rio, the heads of government agreed that the agency ‘s seat should be in thessaloniki. we cannot escape the conclusion though, that this was due not so much to the fact that the reconstruction activities, for which this agency was to be responsible, were in the immediate vicinity, but rather to the fact that there was a general need for economic aid throughout the region. the commission takes the view that it will only be possible to work effectively if the vast proportion of activities is concentrated in pristina. however, the commission could envisage a solution whereby, for example, some of the administrative personnel would be based at another location. but this must not be to the detriment of the efficiency and effectiveness of the operation. the commission assumes that to uphold these principles accords with the court of auditors" position and the first reactions of the european parliament. however, the council decided conclusively on monday this week that the agency"s seat should be in thessaloniki. the commission has refrained from stating its position, preferring the commission"s definitive position to be established by the new commission. the proposal has now been submitted to parliament for advice. meanwhile, as of 1 july, the commission has been despatching a task force consisting of approximately 20 officials and supporting personnel to pristina, where it will be responsible for implementing the reconstruction programme. all authority required to effect implementation was transferred from brussels to the leader of the task force in pristina in order to create a mechanism which will work with optimum efficiency and speed to provide aid at a time when it is most urgently needed in kosovo. finally, a comment on achieving co-ordination amongst the donors. on 13 july, a meeting took place of the high level steering group, the committee managed by the european commission and the world bank which is based on partnership and is intended to co-ordinate the kosovo crisis aid provided by international donors. it was confirmed on this occasion that the first kosovo donor conference would be held on 28 july in brussels. this conference is to focus in particular on determining what the pressing needs will be from now until the end of the year. a second donor conference has been planned for october and this will deal in greater depth with the reconstruction efforts. turning to the öçalan trial, the commission takes the same position on this matter as that taken up by the german presidency on 29 june, following the death sentence passed by the state security tribunal of ankara on abdullah öçalan, and again expresses its absolute repudiation of the death penalty. it was for this reason that on 29 june, the commission asked the relevant turkish authorities to take account of the european union"s repudiation of this death penalty. consequently, the commission, knowing that turkey has not employed the death penalty since 1984, anticipates that as a member of the council of europe, turkey will abide by the obligations that it has entered into. to carry out the death penalty would inevitably place relations between the european union and turkey under huge strain. like the majority of eu member states, the commission believes that recent amendments to turkish legislation have paved the way for the case against mr öçalan and the process of reaching a verdict, to be transferred to a civil court. (applause)
thank you, mr fischler. i have received ten motions for resolution pursuant to rule 37(2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes
- mr president, kosovo is a small economy. the european union could subsidise kosovo for ever and hardly notice it. but surely this is not an acceptable solution. as soon as possible, we must aim to have kosovo stand on its own economic feet. that inevitably means external trade. however, there is a problem in redeveloping kosovo's trade. its biggest trading partner in the past and almost certainly in the future must be its neighbour immediately to the north, serbia proper. not only that but its trade routes to much of the rest of europe past through serbia. and yet serbia is a pariah, embargoed, its infrastructure largely destroyed, its economy shattered. here we have a conundrum: how do we get kosovo to stand on its own feet unless we can rehabilitate serbia also? the current international community's set purpose is that milosevic and his regime must be got rid of and then everything is possible. until he goes, not a penny – well, we heard earlier, hardly a penny. but what if milosevic does not go? let us hope that he does, but if he does not, have we begun to estimate the cost of restoring serbia's infrastructure and productive economy? remember, serbia was a sizeable, developed industrial economy, a vital trading partner and transport corridor for bulgaria, romania, turkey, greece, as well as kosovo and all the former yugoslav republics. so my question to the president-in-office of the council and to the commission is this: how far have you thought through the political steps, the economic and financial commitments that are needed to bring about a free and democratic serbia and reintegrate a free and democratic serbia into the european economy and body politic?
mr president, most of the contributions in this debate have been about the big global issues that appear on our television sets. i want to raise something with the presidency which was in the small print of her remarks. it is something which affects millions of our fellow citizens in europe, not once in a while, but every day of every year, and that is mental illness. i was so pleased when the finnish government decided to make mental health promotion one of their priorities for their presidency. that is welcome. it is important. it is important because as the world bank showed, this is the fastest growing area of health burden throughout the world. it is important because as the united nations has declared, it is to be one of the priorities for the un for the next fifty years, as declared by boutros-boutros-ghali, secretary general. it is important because, as the harvard world bank report showed, mental disorder accounts for some 10.5 % of the global health burden and that is forecast to rise to 15 % by the year 2020. it is important because five of the ten leading causes of disability are psychiatric, with the first of those, unipolar depression, accounting for some 10 % of life with disability. it is important because psychiatric and neurological conditions cause 28 % of lives with disability. it is important because suicide is the tenth most important cause of death in the world – in the united kingdom it is the ninth, ahead of road accidents. it is important because surveys show that one in three people visiting their doctors have a mental health problem but only one in six are diagnosed as such. it is important because one in seven of us have a mental health problem at any one time. one in three of us will during our lifetime. it is not a forgettable minority. nothing is more important among all the finnish pledges than their pledge to take up the cause of people and their families who suffer not just an illness or a disability but disadvantage and stigma too. we need to encourage good mental health. we need to help prevent illness and we need to educate peoples and governments in europe that mental illness is not to be feared, not to be ignored. it can be cured, it can be treated and millions of our fellow citizens can lead full and fulfilled lives if we... (the president cut the speaker off )
i would also like to commend the finnish presidency on another of their initiatives which is the attention they are giving to the development of the information society. this issue is going to affect the lives of every citizen in the european union. we have crucial decisions to make in the union and in the regulation of information technology over the next five years. i am very much hoping that the finnish presidency will give us the right framework within which those decisions will be taken. i would just like to set out some pointers for that. the first pointer is that it is quite clear that technology runs ahead of politicians. i cannot resist pointing out, mr president, that we do not yet have computers or internet access in this splendid building. indeed, i suspect that many of our colleagues are not as literate in technology as they should be, but that technology is going to have a huge effect on opening up the single market and we must make sure, first of all, that legislation does not restrict the ability of people to innovate and introduce changes and new forms of electronic commerce. secondly, we must ensure that consumers powerfully use this technology. the information society is going to be one in which consumers have tremendous power to shop all over the world and particularly within the boundaries of the single market. i have to say that over the next five years the power of electronic commerce will act more quickly to create the single market than any amount of harmonising legislation that we might care to introduce in this chamber or anywhere else. it will be crucial in creating the single market. finally, of course, it will create jobs. electronic commerce is giving small entrepreneurs access to global markets cheaply, quickly and effectively. it is encouraging the development of new forms of small business and we must continue to allow those new businesses to grow. and so, in conclusion, mr president, finland with its great strength in computers and communications is ideally placed to lead us. there are three words i would leave you with if i may – openness, flexibility and innovation.
council . - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, right at the start, i would also like to congratulate you on your election to this parliament. i wish you all every success in the discharge of your demanding duties. as a representative of the country that now holds the presidency, i shall be personally present at the part-session in september. i really appreciate having the opportunity to work together with you all. in a letter from him dated 9 june, mr bangemann, then member of the commission, informed the then president of the commission, gerhard schröder, of his intention to enter the service of a private telecommunications company, the spanish firm telefónica . the council immediately looked into the matter, deciding on 9 july to take the case to the european court of justice, on the basis of article 213 (2(3)) of the ec treaty and the regulations contained in the ecsc treaty and the euratom treaty. under the ec treaty, members of the commission must make a solemn declaration, when commencing their duties, that they will honour their obligations of membership, during their term of office and after it has ended, and behave with integrity and discretion, in the acceptance, after their term of office has ended, of certain appointments or benefits. in the view of the council, mr bangemann, who has, since 1992, been the commission member expressly responsible for telecommunications, was in breach of the regulations. the council believes he was under an obligation to decline telefónica"s offer. the court will decide whether the member of the commission was in breach of the ec treaty or not. while handling the bangemann case, the council noticed with satisfaction how swiftly the future president of the commission was to act after the case was brought. it is the common objective of the council, the future president of the commission, romano prodi, and all the candidates for membership of the commission to prevent the repetition in future of similar conflicts of interest, such as that which occurred in the bangemann case. professor prodi, in his own programme of reforms for the commission, has stressed the need for transparency, efficiency and accountability. when he spoke earlier today here in the european parliament, he told us what demands he would be making in practice on the members of the new commission. for example, there will be clear rules for new members regarding what sort of posts would be appropriate for them to take up on departure from the commission. members of the commission must also, if requested, allow an independent ethics committee to investigate any future post up to a year after they have ceased to hold office, to ensure the new job is compatible in its nature with the work of the commission. the council and its president warmly support the rules on behaviour that romano prodi has given notice of, and they are a good start on the road to comprehensive reforms. besides the members of the commission, all others in the service of the institutions of the union must be able to demonstrate that they are adhering to the principle of transparency and complying with commonly accepted rules of behaviour. i am happy to note that the commission has acted in accordance with the wishes of both the council and parliament and begun preparations to alter rules relating to personnel policy. we need precise rules. only credible reforms will bring the commission and the union as a whole closer to the public and increase the confidence of our citizens in the union and its institutions. (sv) mr president, as finland is bilingual, i will conclude my contribution in swedish. as president of the european union, finland will place great emphasis on openness, efficiency and accountability. the reform process has been initiated in all institutions, which is due, amongst others, to the european parliament, which on various occasions has drawn attention to these problems. on the other hand, there is still a lot to be done. i hope that all eu institutions take responsibility by showing the necessary readiness to undergo reform in this work.
commission. – can i join mr sasi in congratulating members of the house on the election that they achieved to this parliament and particularly congratulate, as mr sasi did, the new members of the house? i hope that they will find their tasks and their career here are both fascinating and fulfilling in the service of the people who have elected them. the resolution for debate relates to specific events and to principles concerning the conduct of commissioners. i will therefore respond on behalf of the commission by reporting briefly on those events and on the commission's reaction to them. on 29 june 1999, the president of the commission, mr santer was made aware of the decision of mr bangemann to depart from the commission in order to take up a private sector appointment two days later on 1 july 1999. mr santer wrote to mr bangemann on 30 june 1999 informing him that he would be put on functional leave and that his responsibilities would be transferred to a colleague in the commission. in that letter, mr santer stipulated that mr bangemann could not commence his new duties and his new activities until the procedure set out in article 215 of the treaty had been completed and he also said that he would submit to the college the question of the compatibility of that planned appointment with article 213 of the treaty. on 1 july 1999, the commission discussed the matter before beginning its formal scheduled meeting. mr bangemann attended those proceedings and stated that he had not acted and would not act in ways that breached article 213. the commission formally took note of those statements from mr bangemann. the house will be familiar with article 213 which, amongst other things, requires members of the commission in particular ‘to behave with integrity and discretion as regards the acceptance, after they have ceased to hold office, of certain appointments'. all commissioners, mr president, appear before the court of justice to swear an oath to that effect on taking up office. at the meeting held on 1 july 1999, commissioners expressed their views to mr bangemann and he then withdrew from the room. commissioners subsequently considered the issues raised by these events and their conclusions are set out in a statement which was published on 1 july 1999 and extensively reported. on 9 july 1999, as the house will have heard from mr sasi, the council decided to refer this case to the court of justice under article 213 of the treaty and, following that decision, it is now for the court to pronounce on the matters. honourable members will understand that the case is therefore now sub judice and the commission consequently has to abstain from public comment on it. as a general indication of the view of the commission on the issues posed by the motion before the house, i refer honourable members to the concluding paragraph of the commission's statement of 1 july 1999 which expressed the view ‘that it would be advisable for the future to clarify the implementation of article 213 regarding commission members' activities after they have ceased to hold office'. the commission consequently notes that on 17 july 1999 the president and commission-designate agreed upon and published a draft code of conduct for commissioners. as the house will have seen from press reports, that document specifies clear compulsory requirements for future commissioners who intend to engage in any occupation during the year after they leave office to inform the commission of their intentions in good time. it further provides for a procedure of examination and decision-making that includes the specific power of the commission to refer the matter to an ethics committee when a commissioner's planned occupation is related to his or her portfolio. the house may also wish to know that, in the course of discussions this month, members of the existing commission who have always fully respected their solemn undertaking to meet the obligations of integrity and discretion have readily and voluntarily reaffirmed that commitment. to them, as to me of course, it is axiomatic. the house will be aware that the composite version of the resolution for debate before this parliament today was produced this morning in keeping with usual practice. the commission has therefore had no opportunity to discuss the specific call in the motion for resolution for current commissioners to respect voluntarily the new code of conduct. i have, however, consulted the acting president, mr marín, and can inform the house that this issue will receive the attention of the commission at its meeting next week. i have sought to respond to the motion for debate as fully as possible whilst respecting the fact that the case which prompted the question is now sub judice . i know that the house will share my awareness of the fact that this debate and my later response to it will need to take account of that obvious legal consideration.
mr president, it is clear that in our european union today changes are underway, particularly in the commission, as a result of the refusal to give discharge for the 1996 budget and then the consequent and ultimate mass resignation of the commission. everything in that particular story showed where codes of conduct had begun to be discussed and debated. indeed the acting president, mr santer, had put out a code of conduct for commissioners and officials but it seemed it did not go far enough. everything in the story was too little, too late. from the comments of commissioner kinnock, the commission might examine this tomorrow or next week. it is always in the same kind of vein. this applies also to the question of a code of conduct for high level officials because in the commission over the last few years there has indeed been lax management in internal organisation as was underlined by the wise men's report. this is why we were calling earlier today for the second part of that report to be available to us so we have as much information available to us when we come to the hearings in early september for the incoming commission. one simple example which i can give the house of the internal games which were played by the heads of cabinets – not the commissioners – on one particular staffing matter goes to show how these things were handled. esprit, an important information technology programme designated under mr bangemann at the beginning of the commission as it was in early 1995, was transferred from originally dg xiii which was under mrs cresson to mr bangemann. lo and behold, in 1998, this was then shifted back to mrs cresson without any formal commission decision – it was just decided as a game between the cabinets. how much time, energy and problems were caused for staff in the running of a programme simply because the commissioners did a deal between themselves which was not transparent, not effective and certainly unaccountable to us here in the european parliament. i come to this particular case of mr bangemann. it is to us extraordinary insensitivity at this particular time, in this current climate, when you have an acting commission, that someone can, in that particular state of office simply say two days later he wants to go and work for a private company which is one of the major operators in the field for which he is responsible in telecommunications. it could be argued that mr bangemann is not doing anything strictly wrong because there was not an enforceable code of conduct. but the statute is very generous to commissioners. is not 80 % of salary for five years enough to satisfy someone's need for financial back-up and to make sure that they do not need the extra finance which a company like telefónica is giving? we unanimously support in our group the council's decision for this case to go to the court of justice. we are particularly hopeful that they will look at the suspension of pension rights for the commissioner in this instance, particularly while he is engaged in a private company. what it leaves for us is a reflection of the disregard of certain members of the outgoing commission for the need to have a rigorous approach to high standards in public life. we therefore welcome the statement by the incoming president, mr prodi, that there will now be codes of conduct applied rigorously, but we have heard this before. this is what worries us. we want to be able to see these codes of conduct effectively applied so as to make sure not only that the people at the top accept political responsibility, but also that we have high quality management right the way down so that people can be appointed for what they know rather than who they know.
mr president, it is right that this parliament and indeed the council and the commission treat this matter with the utmost seriousness. it really is most reprehensible that there has been not only an apparent flouting of the formal rules for commissioners, but also a contravention of the spirit of transparency and trust that should be the basis of the work between this parliament and commissioners. i have been the rapporteur on a substantial number of directives concerning the liberalisation of the telecommunications industry and i, and my colleagues, have acted in good faith in this work and had assumed that the former commissioner bangemann had done the same. one can only speculate at just how much of a commitment mr bangemann had to the level playing field in this aspect of the internal market when he is willing to sell his knowledge to telefónica , a major player in the european union and further afield. it is particularly difficult, colleagues, when mr bangemann was a former member of this parliament and indeed, a leader of the liberal group. one matter which has not been mentioned in the debate is that there is to be a major review of all of the telecommunications legislation later this year and part of this work has already been started by the commission under mr bangemann's commissionership. as i have previously stated, i have been the rapporteur on a number of matters, but if i can just give you a thumbnail sketch of just how extensive this review will be and what it will cover – universal service, frequencies, satellite, regulation, licences, interconnections, numbering, mobile telephones, convergence of broadcasting, data transmission and telecommunications – an explosion of legislation and an enormous segment of the european union's manufacturing, industrial and commercial base in its own right, but also as an adjunct to so many other industries. on all of this, mr bangemann takes with him his knowledge and his contacts to telefónica . there are also a worryingly substantial number of cases before the european court of justice on breaches of legislation, particularly in the field of interconnections – again, matters on which the former commissioner has intimate knowledge. the commissioner, when he was here in this chamber, and i have had many debates with him, was fond of quoting from shakespeare and other english poets. i shall quote one in his absence on his behalf – 'just for a handful of silver he left us, just for a ribbon to stick on his coat'. i know that the money he has been offered by telefónica hardly can be justified by the description of a handful of silver and indeed it begs the question of just how seriously members of this house will treat a company like telefónica when it comes to lobby us as they surely will on the matter of the review and future legislation in this field. if i can be slightly mischievous, one wonders just how much value for money telefónica will get out of martin bangemann. i wish he were on a performance-related pay and he might find that the fat cheque might not look nearly so attractive. i understand commissioner kinnock's hesitation and his hesitations because this matter is sub judice . fortunately, members of this parliament are protected by parliamentary privilege, but even then, commissioner kinnock, i would ask you to note the reasonably restrained language that there is in our resolution and if i may just quote to you briefly on what the resolution says – “it deems his conduct to be particularly open to criticism’. we did choose the language very carefully and many might say that ‘open to criticism’ might be a serious understatement. i finish, where i started, by saying that we are right to treat this with the utmost seriousness. i support absolutely the council's decision to refer this matter to the court and to use all the powers that there are under the agreements. however, one matter still is outstanding. there seems to be no mechanism within the existing rules and obligations where a company like telefónica itself can be subject to some sort of punitive measures. if we could find some way not only of having a measure to take against former commissioners who act in this way, but also against the companies who benefit from their knowledge, then i think that we might have two very powerful levers to use in future transgressions. we hope, of course, that these will not occur. we wish the new commission every success and hope that the high standards they espouse will be put into practice.
mr president, the worst thing about mr bangemann's imprudent career move is the threat that it poses to the commission that he served. the commission was already in serious trouble and its problems were bound to have been compounded by the bangemann decision. in my view, the commission has a final chance to prove itself the clean, efficient and effective executive that the european union needs and that its citizens deserve. should the prodi commission fail, then i fear that the european council will execute a coup d'état and deprive the commission of its right of initiative and its important role as the promoter of european union. so to start the process of the commission's recuperation, may we insist that the outgoing members of the santer commission apply voluntarily the prodi code of conduct.
i wonder if you are able to confirm, or your services are able to confirm, that this building, particularly the tower building, satisfies all aspects of health and safety legislation and whether it has a valid fire certificate. these are important issues and if it does not, then i think serious questions must be raised. i would therefore ask you either to confirm this categorically or, if not, to confirm that measures are taken to investigate the situation.
mr president, do i understand it that you are therefore not able to confirm what i asked? you are not confirming that the building satisfies health and safety and fire regulations? you said you will look at it and try to clarify the situation. what i am asking is: are you able to categorically confirm that the building satisfies these regulations, yes or no?
mr president, given the history of the united kingdom in relation to the bse crisis, some delegates may consider that the uk is disqualified from giving an objective view. however, such a view would be wrong. it must be remembered that this was not our only crisis. we also had salmonella in eggs and listeria, giving us unparalleled experience in dealing with food safety crises. on the matter of listeria, this crisis came to a head in 1989 when over 200 babies and young children had been killed in preceding years, far more than died of new variant cjd. what fellow members may not know is that the main source of the disease was contaminated paté sold from three belgian plants. only when uk health officials intervened was the problem finally resolved. what this says is that it is not just the uk that has food safety problems. but what we have learned from our incidents is that precipitate reaction can often do more damage than the initial crises. action needs to be carefully considered and based on good science. in response to the dioxin incident, we see the commission launching once again into frenzied legislative action. this is damaging british interests, in particular a company called spalding nutrition which is threatened by an entirely unnecessary ban. thus, we would say: by all means have an enquiry, but first let us have a wide-ranging review of all member states' systems for dealing with food and health scares, starting with an evaluation of the british system.
the dioxin story is very familiar to those of us in the united kingdom who have lived through bse. many of the ingredients are exactly the same – disagreeable and even disgusting practices in the preparation of some animal foodstuffs in a world of intensive agriculture and panic and deceit in some of the member states concerned when the source of contamination is first discovered. we must remember this was discovered in january 1999 and the commission was only able to take action after a period of months and a good deal of obfuscation. what we have now seen is the same set of arguments that perhaps they were trying to avoid: a consumer panic and protection of a market – a market which is actually now much more imperilled by the way in which the crisis has unfolded. i think there are dangers of overreaction and some members have referred to that. what i would say is that we must learn lessons from this crisis. firstly, a vigorous and properly funded inspectorate must be established to take a preventative role in this matter. we are now talking about significant changes in the law, long lists of further regulations of substances which may be banned. i certainly do not know, because i do not have the technical expertise, whether the range of recovered vegetable oils which are now seen to be a source of risk should be subject to an outright ban, or whether it should simply be limited to some section of kitchen waste which should never have been in any form of animal foodstuff in the first instance. what i do know is that the inspectorate which we have fought for – we had to fight to get an effective budget for it, to set up the veterinary office in brussels and to make sure that we had the principle of general inspections throughout the community – that inspectorate finds itself threatened and bullied. we have had examples in my country and in belgium of people being physically threatened, of being blackmailed and in some instances even murdered! now when that is the situation, how can we say that the proposal, welcome as it is, to look at a europe-wide food and drugs agency and all these grand gestures can work when no individual inspector can penetrate into the world of crime and fraud which characterises sections of this industry. so, in my opinion, we have to put our own house in order in this matter. we have to be able to say, as the motion of the socialist group does, that the rule of law must apply, that we are a community of law, and unless we have a universal application, which never happened in the wake of bse, of the regulations, the situation cannot improve. simply to bring forward new lists to imperil the producers and not to safeguard the consumer in the actions involved is the wrong way forward.
mr president, i want to focus on one particular issue which i feel has not been fully explored. dioxin, and in this case its source chemical pcb, is one of the number of non-biodegradable bio-accumulative chemicals that we know are contaminating the food chain around the world. there are rules and regulations already in existence for the correct and proper disposal of these substances. indeed, i was parliament's rapporteur on the council and commission proposal for the elimination of pcbs and pcds we dealt with in the last parliament. we have to ask if these existing european rules and regulations are being properly followed. are the responsible authorities given the duty to dispose of these chemicals in a correct and safe way, following the rules, or are they deliberately avoiding them and disposing of these chemicals in the wrong way? this incident appears to indicate that is the case. unlike bacterial or some other form of organic or biological contamination of the food chain, we have here a finite quantity of substance that could easily be eliminated. would the commission please look into why the regulations on the proper disposal of pcbs and pcds are not being correctly followed? will they please investigate where the substances came from that caused this incident?
madam president, apparently the committee of the wise men may be presenting their report to the president and the group leaders sometime today. if that is the case, could you please ensure that these are the final conclusions and that they are available to all members as soon as possible?
(fr) madam president, can you confirm this latest electronic vote? is it a vote by roll call or not? (the president replied that the vote was confirmed) may we have a vote by roll call?
madam president, it has become a bit of a tradition in this house for members to stand up and say that their name was not on the attendance list for the previous day. my name does not appear on the list for yesterday for some reason or other. perhaps it might be a better system if one could just go up to the front desk somewhere and point out to a member of staff that one's name was not on the list, rather than having to rise and inform the whole house.
commission.- i should like to begin by responding to the words of maij-weggen. the point is well made and well taken. i know that she feels strongly about this and that she is not alone in that. whilst i obviously cannot commit my colleague, mrs loyola de palacio, who is happily a member of this house at the present time, to the development of her policy and approach in this house, there are several who feel that the time is right for further discussion between the commission and parliament on some of the procedures and conventions of this house, which obviously meets in more than one place, as well as the conventions and procedures of the college. i hope that discussion can proceed without great delay because there could be developments which would be of mutual benefit and would actually promote accountability and transparency in the service of the union. on the question before the house, i would like to make the following statement on behalf of the commission. this week, the commission issued a formal legal decision against the local organisers of last year's football world cup tournament in france. the organisers were the cfo. that decision followed the organisation's use of discriminatory sales arrangements for tickets for matches. as the house will recall, in 1996 and 1997 the system used by cfo favoured consumers who were able to provide an address in france. in the view of the commission, that constituted an abuse of the organisation's dominant position in the market which is contrary to article 82 of the treaty. this was the first case in community history in which article 82 of the treaty has been used to penalise a discriminatory practice that harms the interests of consumers without having a significant effect on the market. in reaching its decision therefore, the commission took account of the fact that there were no previous decisions of the commission or case-law from the court of justice to guide cfo in its ticketing policy. in addition it was evident that the ticketing arrangements used by cfo in 1996 and 1997 were exactly similar to those employed in previous world cup tournaments and other similar major international contests. as the house will recall, the commission responded to complaints from people outside france who were finding it impossible to buy tickets by beginning an investigation. the cfo then quickly changed its policy and made efforts to make sure that tickets sold in 1998 were available without discrimination. then 100, 000 tickets became available to everyone on a first-come-first-served basis. the commission judged that these factors – the unprecedented application of the law, the conventions relating to previous ticket sales for international tournaments, and the constructive action of cfo – justified a symbolic rather than a punitive fine. in addition, it is relevant to add that a more substantial fine on the organisers of the 1998 world cup in france would have imposed an obligation on the commission to consider action against the organisers of previous major tournaments who used exactly the same ticketing policies. this could have meant, for example, action against the organisers of the 1996 european championship because on that occasion, supporters benefitted from a sales scheme which favoured nationals over fans from abroad. the french organising committee is not a normal commercial profit-seeking company. it exists for the interests of football and it is important to recognise that all profits reverted to the game of football. fining the french organising committee means taking money away from grassroots football and from the promotion of the game and putting that money into the coffers of the european commission. i do not believe that any genuine lover of football would think that was either sensible or acceptable. i know that football supporters in parts of the union have strongly criticised the size of the eur 1, 000 fine. my colleagues and i can certainly understand such reactions when those reactions are not informed by the facts. i hope, however, that in this house and elsewhere, there will be recognition of the specific factors directly relevant to this case. the important – and i think the instructive – outcome of the case is plain. all future sports tournament organisers now clearly know that any ticketing arrangements must comply fully with european community competition rules and be non-discriminatory. secondly, they know that the commission will not hesitate to take action against any organiser that fails to comply with those rules. thirdly, they know that the symbolic approach could only be followed once, and in very particular circumstances. these realities, in the view of the commission, mean that standards of fair treatment for sports fans have been clarified and strengthened. they will definitely enjoy protection against discrimination in the future. the organisers of the euro−2000 cup in belgium and the netherlands have, for instance, contacted the commission and as a result, they have adapted their sales system to meet the requirements of community law. there has been no previous occasion on which a higher percentage of tickets has been made available to the general public with absolutely equal rights for all citizens of the european union. we intend to keep it that way. that is the silver lining. it is a pity that first there had to be a cloud.
madam president, i want to congratulate commissioner kinnock on the statement he has just made. i simply do not know how he managed to keep a straight face as he read out those comments. that statement from the commission was quite appalling. i do not blame commissioner kinnock himself, but i certainly blame the action, attitude and inaction, in fact, of the outgoing commission. this is a pathetic fine from a pathetic commission. all we can say is that it is absolutely typical of the way they have conducted affairs over the last five years. i only hope that the president-elect mr prodi will take this as an example of how not to do it. i was one of 32 members of this parliament who took a private legal action before the french courts last year in a last-ditch attempt to get more tickets for fans across europe. unfortunately, when we went to the french courts, we were told that it was too late at that stage to get the redistribution of tickets ordered, although the french courts themselves recognised that european rules had been flouted in the procedure that was followed. i should like to point out that the costs to the individual members of parliament who took that legal action was, surprise, surprise, in the order of £1000 each, something rather more than the fine that has now been imposed upon the world cup organisers. the commission itself, had it wished, had the power to impose a fine of something like eur 20m – perhaps even more – if it had taken this seriously. it did not take it seriously in 1997 when it could have taken action to ensure a fair distribution. it did not take it seriously in 1998 when we had the problem and fans across europe were denied the opportunity to see the world cup. it is not taking it seriously now. what sort of message is this giving out to sports organisers? commissioner kinnock called this a symbolic fine. well, it is certainly giving a sign that it does not take it seriously at all. we are talking about big business here. the amounts of money involved are significant. something like £300m, i am told, was the turnover of the world cup; the fine something like eur 1000. this is simply not acceptable at all. the sign that is being given is that the commission is turning a blind eye, that it is not really worried. it is saying to large-scale organisers: ‘you can carry on exploiting the fans’. it is also saying that this is the way to encourage – and it is encouraging – a black market in these tickets. it must do something to stop it. sport is now big business. the commission in future must show that it means business to ensure that sport, like other businesses across europe, must observe european rules and regulations.
madam president, i thank the commission and commissioner kinnock for being available to make this statement following my request earlier in the week. while i welcome the fact they are here to make the statement, i am disappointed in its content. i am told i do not like football: i am a manchester city season-ticket holder. i am told that the commissioner has similar problems with a rumoured enthusiasm for cardiff city which may explain some of the difficulties we both face. nevertheless, i agree that the french football federation put on a wonderful feast of football. the french ‘rainbow team’ did much to confound the xenophobics and racists who, like mr le pen and our unlamented former colleague mr mègret, believe that to be french is to be white. yet importantly, there clearly was a breach of competition rules on a massive scale. commissioner kinnock talked about 180, 000 tickets being made available to football fans across europe. that was after 600, 000 tickets were sold on a discriminatory basis. the organising committee deliberately and provocatively ignored early on the requirement that all citizens of the european union be treated equally, and clearly breached article 82 of the treaty. in doing so, they massively increased their profits, selling tickets in corporate blocks as small as one. you could not buy a ticket by telephoning and paying ff500, but for ff5, 000 you could get the same ticket and the equivalent of a school dinner – i have had corporate hospitality before. if commissioner kinnock is asking me if i believe that the european commission could actually help grassroots football better than the multinational corporations who actually rely on the profits, i would actually vote for the european commission. it may not be a very popular move but i have seen very little evidence of the people who are making multi-millions of pounds out of football putting it back into football. they are putting it into franchising and other things. this also endangered the security of thousands of football fans. it turned tens of thousands of french men and women into amateur ticket touts. if they bought their allocation of four tickets each for a major match and sold them on the black market, they had enough money for two of them to take a two-week holiday in australia. it was very difficult to imagine that french men and women would not pick up tickets and sell them in that way and clearly that was happening. in these circumstances, therefore, does the commissioner not agree that football fans will think it is absolutely ludicrous, the eur 1000 fine – which was about the black-market price for a ticket for england-argentina – that ticket touts will think that this is good news and that genuine football fans will be disappointed? can he not confirm that we could have fined the french football authorities something between ff 100m and ff 200m, which was something like 10 % of the extra profits they made? does he not believe that the excuse that the organising federation no longer exists is actually a facile one when clearly it is the responsibility of the french football federation? does he not agree that the message to the organisers of europe 2000, to the organisers of europe 2004 and the possible organisers of the mondiale 2006, whether in germany or the united kingdom, is that they can ignore the rules, maximise profits and in the end, all it costs them is the small change? should the commission be treating football differently from any other multi-billion pound industrial operation? it seems to me that if this had been in the telecommunications sector or elsewhere, the notion that we would have come back with a symbolic fine in circumstances where people had increased their profits by £200m or £300m would have been as ludicrous as the symbolic fine appears to football fans.
madam president, our former belgian socialist colleague, mr de coene, and i led the group of 30 meps who took the case to the high court in paris last year. the tribunal there found in our favour. they found that the european law had been broken by the cfo. they dismissed our case on a technicality, finding that we were inadmissible as litigants. but we took action because we were not convinced that the european commission was standing up for the rights of the european citizen. as a result of our action, we were assured by commissioner van miert that the commission would prosecute this to the very end. that action, as mr perry has pointed out, cost us individually more than eur 1000 each. members of this house are sick at the fine that has been imposed by the european commission on the cfo. i can well imagine why commissioner van miert did not want to come here personally to make this statement today. this is not the first time that the world cup organisers have rigged the sales of tickets against the ordinary football fan. but it is the first time that they have trumpeted their tournament as the first billion-dollar world cup. they have made millions out of discriminatory sales arrangements. if the commission had pursued this abuse of article 82 as rigorously as it pursues abuses in other areas of industry then this fine would have been not £600 but £6m or more. the commissioner tells us that the interests of consumers were harmed but that this had no serious effect on the market. i suggest to the commissioner that it has a very serious effect on the european union's reputation. he tells us that there was nothing to guide the cfo. what about the fine that the commission imposed on the italian organisers of the world cup in 1990, a fine which was, in fact, larger than the fine that is imposed on the cfo this year? what about the exchange of correspondence between the cfo and the european commission which started the previous july? unlike mr ford, who represents the southwest but supports manchester city, i do not support any football club, but i do support the right of the european citizen to be protected from discriminatory practices and the abuse of a dominant market position. i support the european union in developing its role to protect those citizens. to me, this fine sends to the european citizen the message that europe is on the side of big business and not on the side of the ordinary man or woman in the street. in my view, this is a sad-and-sorry ending to a sad-and-sorry commission. i hope that our new commissioners, when they have been approved in september, will have rather more backbone in taking up this kind of case on behalf of the people of europe. (applause )
madam president, i am here to speak on behalf of millions of women football fans. i welcome commissioner kinnock's reassurances. i must say that i was appalled at how the ticket allocation was handled by the french authorities. i know that a large number of people in britain were equally frustrated. the release of the tickets was really too late for most people to be able to take up those opportunities given their work commitments. what we need, i believe, is some joined-up thinking. one of the main objectives of the eu institutions is to ensure that citizens of all eu countries are treated fairly and equally. in this instance, millions of football fans were discriminated against. and yet, this breach is taken lightly. whatever the reasons for that particular measly fine, it will alienate a large number of fans. it is another missed opportunity to connect with the people of europe. football is a passion that unites all the countries. what better way for us to change our image and connect with the people of europe than to say that we take football as seriously as we take any branch of commerce.
- madam president, i respect your wish not to engage in a debate and i will not seek to do so but i would like to know if you would undertake to reply to the letter that some of our colleagues and i have addressed to you personally on the issue of access for disabled people. if we could have that answer by friday, it would go a long way towards solving this problem.
- madam president, i would like to ask that, contrary to what happened during the last part-session in strasbourg, the 'no smoking' areas be respected. i have had two asthma attacks in this building during this session and i do not wish to repeat this performance. i am sure that other people in this building also suffer from asthma and other lung problems and i therefore ask that all non-smoking areas be respected. (applause from the left)
- madam president, this is a procedural motion. i notice that some members are holding up banners in favour of a cause which i am sure has the support of an overwhelming majority of us, myself included, but could you tell us what rules, regulations or guidelines you intend to give this house with regard to demonstrations of any kind outside the framework of the rules of procedure of this house?
- madam president, i am speaking on a point on the agenda for wednesday, 15 september. i am rather surprised to find there a procedure without debate on a report attributed to mr westendorp. i have here the document relating to this report, according to which the committee voted on it. i was present at the committee meeting and was not aware of such a vote. i think there was a misunderstanding or a mistake in the committee secretariat. i would point out at this stage that this is a matter of caution and that we could raise an objection to the inclusion of this item on the agenda.
- mr president, we are being asked to comment on a 283 page report which was only made available late friday morning and is available in two languages. in the meantime, there was a weekend while most of us spent today getting to strasbourg. it is impossible to comment on anything in such a short time. we cannot have formed any opinion. it is obvious that no company would ever operate in this way. but i should probably not be surprised, because it seems to me that within the european union we are drowning in such a mass of paper that the european parliament - and i am sure the council of ministers - cannot read what it is asked to approve. in this world, it is certain that the bureaucrat is king. i have, however, noted two points: first, the outgoing commissioners complained that they could not, in practice, supervise the work of their highest officials, the directors-general. it seems unacceptable to me that commissioners can form the eu executive without taking on the responsibility that comes with it. but the main resistance is recommendation 59 which insists on the establishment of a european public prosecutor, which insists on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and of delegated prosecutors in the member states in order to create an area of freedom, security and justice as provided for in the treaty. the british government has repeatedly told us that the corpus juris is nothing more than a discussion paper. and now it seems that we are on the verge of a whole new legal system because of a few crooked officials. this is pretty unacceptable.
- mr president, we must thank the wise for this second contribution to the future functioning of our procedures and in particular those of the commission. but as mrs theato, the chairman of our committee on budgetary control, has made clear, it must be said from the outset that this house has had to deal with many of these issues for many years. this body of men and women had given us a first significant report on the lack of accountability at the top of the commission, a problem we all know. i would also like to say right now that we would have liked to have seen this report much earlier so that we could have incorporated it into our hearings because on many issues we would have preferred, as mr kinnock said earlier, action over words. at this stage, we have only words to work with, as we have to complete the ratification process by the end of this week. as regards the criticisms that have been raised, i would like to refer to four specific aspects. the first relates to the control environment. the problem of responsibility is rightly emphasised, by assigning it to the lower levels of the commission and by having a professional and independent internal audit service. we have just heard that the commission accepts this recommendation. the question i would like to ask mr kinnock is why this was not done before. why did we have to go through this whole process to realize that dg xx was not doing its job properly? secondly, as regards the fight against fraud and corruption, the report of the experts provides some insight into the current legal framework. they are right about olaf and the need for its independence and cooperation with the member states and europol. but does the commissioner think that considering a european prosecutor is a smart suggestion? we are not going to be able to do that. would he think that would improve the system? thirdly, on personnel matters, we should indeed strengthen the european nature of the public service so that promotion is based on merit and not on relationships. we have already dealt with this point. does the commissioner think we should be relying on merit at all levels of public service? how can greater mobility be achieved where some experts know only specific aspects of the political field? and, more importantly, as other colleagues have mentioned, how do we deal with the question of insider informers? i would like to know whether the commissioner would accept the wise men's recommendation that we should have a mechanism in place to allow these informers to come to parliament or to go to external bodies if they find that at internal level they cannot get their hierarchy, as was the case with mr van buitenen, to accept their arguments. finally, in terms of integrity, accountability and accountability, i personally find the remarks made in the report very revealing in terms of collective responsibility. the commissioners worked in their own field but did not work collectively. they had a collective responsibility but were actually unable to share the responsibility with others. is commissioner kinnock prepared to say that parliament should be consulted on the codes of conduct for commissioners and officials before they come into force? what should be the follow-up? i am glad that our parliament has decided to undertake a thorough examination. it must not be limited to this report by the committee of wise men: it must be about the first report by the committee, which we have never had time to examine in detail, and the screening report, which not everyone has had the chance to see, which describes what the future commission should look like. all this must be brought back to the house in december so that we can have a great debate and make recommendations on the reform process. we must do what we can to continue the cultural reform of the commission and of our institution.
- mr president, like my socialist colleagues, i welcome this report which underlines the work we have done in the committee on budgetary control and which is really based on that work. several recommendations are very radical, and the one aimed at establishing a european public prosecutor's office is not the least. many eurosceptics have often used fraud in the eu institutions to drum up opposition to us. it goes without saying that we must root out all fraud and mismanagement. but it is clear that 80% of the problem lies within the member states themselves. the recommendation to establish a european public prosecutor's office, in the form proposed, would mean that there would be a mechanism to deal with criminal cases of community fraud throughout the union without encroaching on the jurisdiction of national courts. that's how it was written. this is a wording which takes account of the concerns of the member states. the report identifies a number of shortcomings within the institutions and makes recommendations to address these problems. we look forward to developing the reform action programme with the responsible commissioner and although we have not had time to go into detail, i think it would be fair to engage the commissioner in a clear discussion and tell us why no action is being taken if certain recommendations are abandoned. i am sure we will not agree on every detail of the report, but it would be a useful exercise nonetheless. the question of external organisations working for the commission is an area which requires great attention. who is responsible for the technical assistance offices? can we make stricter contracts with these agencies? how can procedures be simplified and commission staff better informed about tender procedures? the proposals outlined by commissioner kinnock during his hearing, particularly in the area of training, require a more detailed response. we hope that he will be able to give us more of his ideas in the coming months. i hope everyone will take the time to read the report which clearly distinguishes fraud from irregularity. the report states that out of the thousands of transactions carried out within the institutions of the european union, there are only thirty investigations into fraud cases involving commission officials. of course, this is 30 too many, but the main reason for concern is the many examples of irregularities. it is an administrative problem, not a criminal one. but measures are needed to stop the negligence of administrative practices, to rewrite poor quality regulations, to reduce complex payment mechanisms, to get rid of the exaggerated exceptions and derogations that lead to too many irregularities and errors. these are the irregularities that cause the alarmist headlines at every presentation of the court of auditors' annual report. the report also makes a very specific reference to the regulation on the protection of the european community's financial interests and notes that only three member states have ratified this regulation. i am sure that this report will feed the thoughts of those member states which have not yet signed it. it will be particularly interesting to see how they react to the recommendation to set up a national prosecutor's office in each member state to deal with european offences. it is indeed timely that this report should be published this week, even as we are about to decide the fate of a new commission. in the light of recent events, it is particularly interesting that the committee of experts recommends that the president of the commission be given legal powers to dismiss individual commissioners. this week the commission also sent us an amending and supplementary budget request to secure the funds needed to recruit staff to run the new anti-fraud office, olaf. we are inclined to agree with the report when it considers that these posts require specific expertise and that there is a need to make better use of information technologies in the collection of information. the report as such should also be a lesson for all of us in the institutions of the european union. it is written in a clear way, it is really easy to access and it avoids jargon as much as possible. it is a true model for drafting european legislation. that said, we welcome the move from ex ante control to permanent ex post control of budgetary control mechanisms within the commission. we hope that this will be implemented. i repeat, the discussions on this matter will continue in our committee. we are at the dawn of a new era for the institutions of the european union. we hope that the time has come when civil servants will be promoted on the basis of merit. we expect recruitment from people with the appropriate experience in specific sectors. we hope that the commitments made to internal informers will be implemented. but above all, we hope that the time will come when every civil servant and every government in a member state will be sensitive to a new culture of accountability. the coming months and years will be decisive. but we must not forget that we have a foundation on which to build. the report unequivocally praises the commitment and experience of most of the civil servants. as of this week, a new chapter is being written. the report describes the process. the commission will write it, but parliament will insist on having a serious editorial control. the partnership will allow us to restore confidence in the institutions, not only for the people who work in them but, most importantly, for those they serve.
commission - at this point in the debate, i shall speak on behalf of the present commission. as i said earlier in the debate, my fate is in the hands of parliament. following the vote on wednesday, i have either already wasted too much of this parliament's time by presenting my point of view, or we are at the beginning of a very large-scale work. it is therefore for parliament to decide in what capacity i am speaking tonight.
- the problem must be really big because you've been besieged with questions. i hope you can answer at least some of them.
commission. - i am sure you will join me in regretting that there are far more questions than members in the house. indeed, even after four and a half years, i still experience a culture shock because in westminster, unlike in this parliament, speaking during the debate automatically requires attending from beginning to end and not leaving the chamber without either having been authorised to do so by the chair, or having obtained the approval of colleagues in the house, or simply being prevented from attending the debate because of urgent matters to be dealt with. however, traditions differ within this democratic association of member states and i respect each of them. may i start by mentioning a minor point raised by my very good friend, mr colom i naval, who said that he hoped we had put an end to an unfortunate episode in the history of the union. i can certainly agree with his wishes, but i regard the publication of the second report of the committee of wise men as a step in a necessary evolution rather than as some kind of finish line. i am sure that many members will agree with this in the course of the debate. i would also like to congratulate mr schori on his first speech in this parliament. as he discovered earlier, politics may be the only profession where it is possible to be a beginner several times. it is difficult to imagine mr schori as a beginner after such a long and distinguished career in democratic politics. i fully support and support his view and i hope, as he does, that we are on the cusp of the kind of reforms that citizens want. i am sure that during his parliamentary career he will see to it, as he has done on other occasions, that we work towards these objectives. mrs theato - who is not here at the moment but has nevertheless, as usual, made some important points - raised the question of parliament's access to the documents submitted to the committee of wise men because they were evidence. i can only repeat what i said in my written answers to the questionnaire and repeated last week: there should be maximum transparency. however, the right of those who provide evidence to be kept confidential must be respected and this must be respected where necessary. considers, therefore, that the commission and parliament should endeavour to guarantee this dual objective - transparency and the need to respect the confidentiality commitments made to those who transmit information - by deciding on the final destination of the complete archives and by establishing the rules for access to these archives in a secure environment. in conclusion, i hope that i can say that neither in my written answers nor during the hearings last week was there any intention to overshadow or circumvent the requirement of transparency. i do not think i can say it any clearer or more firmly than that, but if any misunderstanding persists, i will do everything in my power to dispel it. we agree on the objectives. i am sure that no one in this parliament would want to betray the honourable commitments made to those who have submitted evidence knowing that they would be granted confidentiality; but for the rest, if we can agree on a method of recording these archives in good agreement with the committee of wise men, i'm sure we should. i hope that is very clear to all. the question of the european public prosecutor has not been suggested for the first time. in fact, this was first suggested by parliament. all i can say is that we can only speculate on the response of the member states to this proposal. however, without going into the immense complications of a development similar to that proposed by the committee of wise men, i would like to say that crime is increasingly international. all efforts to combat crime must also be international and whatever happens, there must be improved coordination and cooperation between the judicial and other relevant bodies of the european union. i am sure that no responsible person, and certainly no elected representative or member of the commission, would wish it otherwise. i look forward to continuing the debate launched in many respects by reports from this parliament. i am quite certain that if we understand that we share the objective of combating and deterring fraud, we will want to maximise the means of achieving this by all reasonable means available to our democracies. let me say to several members - and in particular to mrs morgan who has just spoken and to mrs van der laan who has explained to me why she had to be absent from this part of the debate - that the committee of wise men is quite explicit about the need for a common and cooperative approach by the member states, this house and the commission to ensure the scope and the reach of the reforms that the european union must achieve in its fifth decade of existence. indeed, it was said in this debate that we should strive for this kind of association if we want the changes to be positive. i fully understand and accept that this is a fundamental objective but i must say that there are changes we need to make in the commission, the executive administration of the union, which will simply not wait for what will by definition be a demanding and lengthy process. i am sure that parliament will excuse us if we do some innovations on our own initiative. if i may speak briefly - because i do not want to keep the house too long and i am aware that this is the second speech to which parliament has invited me - on the question raised by recommendation 36 on the responsibility of commissioners. i thank mr lagendijk for the way he has approached this issue, not only because he has rightly drawn our attention to the provisions contained in recommendation 36, with which i agree, but also because it gives me the opportunity to reply to another member who has chosen to describe my comments and those of my colleagues from the commissioner-designate in reply to the question of effective management by services within services as a form of abdication of responsibility on the part of the commissioners. it is not. i think that the commissioners must have and accept overall responsibility for policy and management. but it would be absurd and contradictory to expect us to be in the same breath, on the one hand, to defend effective decentralisation of responsibility and the resulting increase in accountability and on the other hand to be on the back of every director in the european commission. this is not the way to increase efficiency and accountability; it is simply a more rigid form of centralisation from which no one benefits. mr elles raised a number of interesting questions. i will not be able to answer each of them in the time allotted to me. if i may, i would just like to address two of them. i have already touched upon the question of the european public prosecutor. as regards the real and sustainable improvement of what he called the financial control environment, he will know that efforts have been made to achieve this through more effective distribution of responsibilities and effective central coordination to detect unnecessary controls. in my view and in the view of my colleagues, the idea put forward in the report of the committee of wise men to establish an internal audit service represents, as it is described, a significant step forward. i suppose we can be blamed for not having made this change spontaneously - this is one of the many recommendations of the committee of wise men that we must take up, think about quickly and exploit fully. i hope that parliament will support us on this point. finally, on the question of internal whistleblowers, which was raised by many members and in particular by mr elles, i can only say that i hope i was clear last week about my intention to ensure a change in the current system which guarantees - if i may say so briefly - the fullest fairness and security to those who do their duty in reporting the facts, to those who are the subject of accusations, to the institution as a whole and through it to the european taxpayer. we know that many innovative systems now exist in many member states. we want to learn from the best of them quickly and aim for a radical reform in this area. this is a fundamental requirement for effective and accountable public administration. i cannot give a definite date for the introduction of the changes. to some extent, their introduction will depend on agreement between the institutions, but as far as the detailed statement of what my colleagues and i want and the vigorous pursuit of these objectives, parliament can be sure that we are committed to it. in my opinion, the changes i want to see cannot come soon enough. they will benefit the union as a whole. i hope the house will forgive me, mr president, if i end here. there are many other things i would like to say. can i reassure you on a point raised by many members? as i said in my first or second sentence this afternoon, i believe that if parliament gives its confidence to the commission on wednesday, it will have a few years to show how seriously it takes the recommendations, let us say the exhortations, of the committee of wise men. we will endeavour to answer them, to the best of our ability and in good faith. in the course of the process we shall have many opportunities to debate in detail the text tabled by the committee of wise men on friday. as i said earlier, it is not just the discussions that will matter, but the decisions and actions that will follow. in this, as in many other things, the verb counts more than the noun. (applause) i would like to thank
- as you have said, commissioner, this subject will be discussed for weeks, months, years and perhaps even generations. but i thank you now. budgetary timetable: see minutes
- the next item is the report (a5-0003/99) by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
commission - (es) mr president, i thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in particular its rapporteur, mrs mckenna, and the members of the committee on budgets for the work they have done and the interest they have shown in this proposal. you will agree with me that this community framework for cooperation is important, as it is intended to support and complement the work of the member states in the field of accidental marine pollution, precisely in order to make it more effective. this framework has already proved to be very useful when, in the face of serious spills, the work of different member states had to be coordinated. the commission can accept in whole or in part 20 of the 29 proposed amendments which clearly improve the proposal. amendments nos 3, 6, 8, 9 and 13 and part of amendment no 15 would be acceptable in principle, although we would like them to be worded differently. the remaining nine amendments pose problems for the following reasons: - amendment no 1 and, in part, amendments nos 5, 15 and 24 introduce a specific reference to pollution caused by radioactive substances, which are already implicitly regulated in the proposal. in addition, the existing international conventions on the protection of the mediterranean sea, the baltic sea and the north sea, to which the community is a contracting party, all follow the same approach: they do not specifically mention any substance; - amendments nos 10, 11, 12, 17 and 18 and the first part of amendment no 22 are aimed at strengthening cooperation with countries participating in the phare, tacis and meda programmes. this inclusion can greatly complicate management, given the differences between the decision-making processes and the proposed community framework; - according to the commission, amendment no 22 is not in line with the recent decision on comitology; - in our view, amendment no 23 infringes the commission's right of initiative. despite these details, i am confident that parliament's input and support will enable this proposal to be adopted quickly in order to ensure continuity between the present community action and the programme proposed to enter into force on 1 january 2000.
the rapporteur. -(en) mr president, i am speaking as rapporteur on the proposal for a european commission recommendation laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections. the most important thing about my report is that with the support of the committee, i rejected the idea that it should be a recommendation. i want to make sure that this instrument is a directive. i am quite convinced that the speech which mr marin is now reading with anxiety rejects everything i am about to say. this is a very important point and is the source of some of the disappointment felt by citizens in many countries with the european union. it is based on the feeling that legislation adopted at eu level is not uniformly implemented across the member states of the european union. i do not know what my colleagues in the european parliament think, but it was certainly one of the criticisms of the european union during the british campaign leading up to the european parliament elections. at present, more than 80 infringement cases against environmental legislation in the european union, involving 11 member states, are pending before the court of justice. as rapporteur on the recent discharge directive, i know that the european commission proposes legislation on the assumption that it will be adopted and properly implemented in all member states. at the same time, however, the directorate-general concerned is fully aware that in certain areas and in certain member states there is no inspection service to check the effective application of these laws. the european commission's recipe for dealing with this problem is to organise occasional meetings of inspectors from the different member states to try to improve their techniques and to work this into a recommendation. there is really nothing particularly radical about it. the committee on the environment feels that this is largely inadequate and that without a directive, the member states lagging behind will not be encouraged to do anything. the advantage of changing from a recommendation to a directive is twofold. firstly, the possibility of financial penalties and sanctions is likely to be a catalyst for change and secondly, taking up the draft recommendation before us avoids creating a directive which is too normative and detailed. people want to see the legislation implemented. they don't want paperwork. if this instrument is turned into a directive, it would mean that we could see who in the commission and among the members of this parliament is actually doing something. if we are satisfied with one recommendation, it is likely that in five years' time we may forget to report to parliament that a recommendation has been adopted and that little has been done about it. a directive has the force of law and we think that is what we need. i note that the greens have tabled an amendment calling the attention of the european parliament to the fact that there must be some sort of environmental inspection office at european union level. we must proceed very carefully in this matter if we do not want to entangle the member states in more paperwork. rather than embarking on the establishment of a supranational inspection office, with all the difficulties that this implies in terms of access rights, it is better to ensure, once the legislation is in place, that (a) environmental inspections exist in all member states and (b) that they perform their task to a more or less similar standard. you can only do this through a management. a recommendation is largely inadequate.
- mr president, the european union is the subject of much criticism but few voices are raised to protest when this institution takes action to protect our air, rivers, seas and countryside, because everyone is aware that pollution does not know the borders of nations and can only be effectively combated by countries working together. let's do justice to europe: it has done pioneering work by introducing legislation on environmental protection. but laws that are not uniformly applied by the 15 member states will succumb to the cynicism of those who seek financial gain at any cost and will engender a sense of injustice and, ultimately, hostility among all those who follow the rules. of course, none of us have any reason to feel superior. no country is perfect in enforcing environmental laws. this report is a step forward and gives parliament the best possible image in the defence of the public interest. it underlines our commitment to protecting the environment and to applying equivalent procedures in each member state. it substantially reinforces the commission's well-intentioned but frankly inconsistent recommendations on inspection procedures - recommendations which could not guarantee effective improvements - and provides for a detailed action programme to ensure that existing laws are properly implemented within a realistic but tight timetable. as it stands, this report contains one or two sections which i think could benefit from minor amendments to strengthen them. i have tabled a few amendments and one of the pleasures of speaking for the first time in this house is that one has the feeling that the remarks one makes could be judged on their merits rather than on the political affiliation of the speaker. as mrs jackson has pointed out, the substance of this report and my concern is that the commission might not support these proposals. i congratulate mrs jackson on the work she has undertaken. i am convinced that this report should have the enthusiastic support of parliament and that we should convey to the commission and the council our determination that these essential measures should not be watered down or weakened in any way.
commission - (es) mr president, in fact, in the report presented by mrs jackson there is a point which does not speak so much of the content as of the legal form which can be chosen to try to solve the problem of minimum environmental standards in the member states. the commission has proposed a recommendation. parliament would prefer a directive, not so much, i insist, on a matter of substance, because there is no kind of fundamental amendment to the recommendation proposed by the commission. why did the commission consider that in this case it was preferable to present a recommendation rather than a directive? firstly, mr president, because the commission, before making a legislative proposal, logically consults the member states accordingly. of the 15 member states, only one is in favour of a directive. once again we are faced with a real problem: when the commission proposes a recommendation, you want a directive and when the commission proposes a directive, you have to make recommendations because you have to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is therefore very difficult, given that 14 of the 15 member states prefer a recommendation, firstly, because sometimes the principle of subsidiarity must be respected; secondly, because we prefer the concept of shared responsibility and thirdly, because this is a measure in a programme which does not exclude, if the recommendation proves insufficient, consideration of the submission of a directive in the future. in other words, firstly, it is simply a pragmatic approach, given that the majority of member states do not want a directive; secondly, the principle of subsidiarity would be invoked and thirdly, the commission prefers to maintain this programme through recommendations, see what the result of this phase of closer cooperation on inspection will be and try in the future, if it is deemed appropriate, to present a directive. these are the explanations i can give you on behalf of the european commission.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i want to come back to this briefly. i take note of the commissioner's argument on subsidiarity, but what parliament wants is a minimum framework directive which does not infringe subsidiarity and solves the problem by requiring member states to set up inspection within fairly broad guidelines. secondly, i would ask the commissioner, since we are all going to put pressure on the member states to change their minds, if he can put us in confidence, in the interests of transparency. which member state should we not put pressure on?
- the interinstitutional trauma of the past few months is now over and business as usual will soon resume. i'm very pleased. however, as many speakers have pointed out, we need to understand how the interinstitutional crisis of recent months has fundamentally changed the relationship between the two institutions. it is fair to say that in the past there was a traditional view that the european parliament and the european commission had to work in an almost constant state of collusion in order to take care of the direct interests of the member states and thus promote european integration. this view, now a thing of the past, has been lost in the light of recent events. already, perhaps, we should accept and welcome on both sides a constant and creative tension between our two institutions - this is, after all, the heart of any mature parliamentary democracy. this requires changes not only in the european commission, to which we are all accustomed, but also changes in the european parliament itself. i hope that parliament will take this opportunity to reform its own outdated procedures and practices, as well as the financial conditions for meps. if parliamentarians do not examine themselves with the same forensic care as they do other institutions, it will be difficult to solve the serious problem of the high voter abstention rate that so many parts of europe experienced in the june elections. indeed, it is no exaggeration to say that voter indifference remains the greatest long-term threat to the european union in general and to the european parliament in particular. our top priority must therefore be to re-engage disillusioned voters: a reformed european parliament in a vigorous but mature dialogue with a reformed european commission is the only way to achieve this.
- mr president, my speech will deal with four points. the conservatives are opposed to the return of former commissioners and we have been denied the individual vote of commissioners. secondly, the commission is predominantly left-wing, which is quite contrary to the view expressed by the european electorate in june. thirdly, some appointed commissioners have not yet answered important questions of integrity. fourth, we are afraid that some of our brothers may not be qualified to do the work. in the last two weeks, conservative members, like others, have been conducting a close questioning of the commissioners-designate. our criteria were their competence, their political agenda and their background. we have demanded a public vote in all parliamentary committees from the start, to allow meps to express their opinion on each european commissioner. once again this request was refused. the european conservatives are not given the opportunity to give their opinion on each individual commissioner and, based on democratic principles, have no choice but to oppose the proposed team of european commissioners. we insist on responsibility and honesty. professor prodi himself refused to hold a public hearing. in most, perhaps all, of our countries, when a minister deceives parliament or fails to act to combat mismanagement, he resigns. the report of the wise men on the previous commission points out that it is becoming difficult to find anyone who has the slightest sense of responsibility. it is even more worrying that during their term of office the commissioners did not sign any eu accounts. it's really not a sign of financial responsibility. the outgoing commission was based on collective responsibility. four governments have renamed their commissioners. this is why the european conservatives oppose these four commissioners. this is not a personal matter. neither is political. it's a matter of principle. the only way to decide on this is to vote against the investiture of the commission as a whole. we want the european parliament to have the right to ask individual commissioners to resign in the event of maladministration or fraud. meps have been denied an important democratic right because they cannot invest individual commissioners. we want an efficient and responsible european union, where the european institutions are subject to rigorous scrutiny. we are not against the european commission. we are against fraud and corruption, mismanagement and inefficiency. we want a commission that works, that does really better. the vote on wednesday is an important opportunity to signal to the commission that it must make a profound change in its habits. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
- mr president, my remarks will be directed mainly to mrs de palacio. a short while ago, in his speech to parliament, mr prodi made a firm commitment to combat fraud and the misuse of public funds. that is why, during the hearing of mrs de palacio, my colleagues and i questioned her very strongly about the subsidy scandal in the flax sector, a scandal involving her department in spain. we were not satisfied with mrs de palacio's answer. it has said that the spanish parliament has absolved it of all responsibility and that the case is now closed, which is completely wrong. i know that olaf is working on it and that the spanish investigation is going on and that mrs de palacio can be totally exonerated, but the fact is that she was not very forthcoming about the truth when she answered my questions on 30 august. finally, the temper of mrs de palacio at the press conference following the hearing does not bode well when we know that she will also be responsible for relations with the european parliament, and if it is true that mrs de palacio later apologised, this only confirms our opinion that she is probably not in a position to take on this role in the new commission. unfortunately, mr president, although mrs de palacio has answered satisfactorily our questions on transport, and our group will no doubt support the commission tomorrow, we have to express reservations about mrs de palacio's candidacy, given that the investigation by olaf and the spanish authorities has not yet been completed and given the way in which she has answered questions on this matter during her hearing.
- mr president, it seems that even the majority of your own members of the european parliament are indifferent to this mock democratic debate. mr prodi, what can be said in 90 seconds, or even in 90 minutes, that can justify your appointment and that of your commissioners in the eyes of the europeans? the answer is 'nothing', because there is nothing that can justify your programme to control the political life of the nations of europe in secret, aided and abetted by the heads of state and government of the member states, in particular the united kingdom. the united kingdom independence party supports the edd and rejects the dangerous and unrealistic project of creating a new nation called europe. we are fighting for a europe which once again respects the political, economic and cultural diversity of the different nations and their right to democratic self-government. that is why the united kingdom independence party is fighting for our country to leave the european union and thus to abrogate the act of accession of the united kingdom to the european communities which prime minister heath unfortunately signed in 1972. almost 50% of the british electorate is in favour of british withdrawal. our campaign has put this issue at the center of our nation's political agenda. of the three nations that could have voted on the maastricht treaty seven years ago, only ireland, with a population of 3.6 million, was enthusiastic. what about the other 12 member states? this is what european democracy is all about. the appointment of mr kinnock and mr patten clearly confirms the feeling that appointment to the commission is really just a consolation prize for those who have been politically excluded in their own countries. this is clearly one of the reasons why a large part of the british electorate rejected the uk's membership of the european union and supported our campaign for withdrawal. we shall vote against the investiture of your commission tomorrow.
- mr prodi, you used a russian term this morning, glasnost, which means openness. i hope you know the second term that mr gorbachev made famous, perestroika, which means restructuring, reform - because we expect that from you too. you must regain the trust of european citizens. everyone pointed that out this morning. you can only do that if you show the following qualities: clarity, leadership, honesty and humility. the clarity: your political vision as you have set it out this morning does not fully satisfy our vision and it is appropriate that you deepen your reflection on social europe, the environment and other subjects. we expect you to give us concrete objectives. this is what citizens understand and what we want, as part of this clarity, is proof that you are able to listen. this evidence has not yet been produced. we want proof that you are able to listen and understand your role, our role and the role of the council of ministers, lobbyists and members of the directorates-general. leadership: you have to show willpower, integrity and you have to show that you are very good at seeing and listening and that you are competent. honesty: you must tell us the truth even if it is embarrassing. your commissioners will be judged by the same standards. our committee, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, has questioned three commissioners and sent delegations to hear three other commissioners. we have interviewed commissioners liikanen, lamy and busquin and we have attended the hearings of mrs de palacio and mr patten and mr wallström. our committee attended the largest number of hearings. when we interviewed mr liikanen and mr lamy, we acted very objectively, we asked them about their role. this was not the case for half of the members present at mr busquin's hearing. the hearing of this commissioner-designate says much more about this side of parliament than it does about commissioner busquin. all this because he was subjected, unlike all the other appointed commissioners, to a sadistic, prepared and concerted attack. he gave very clear answers, but then they kept asking him the same questions. and the way in which we have been pursuing matters of belgian internal policy which have nothing to do with the role which this parliament is called upon to play, since it is multilingual, was disgusting. no other commissioner has had to suffer this torture and those of us who wanted to conduct this hearing properly and listen objectively to what the commissioners had to say about their future work felt very badly about it. this side of the house should be ashamed of the way it behaved during mr busquin's hearing. unlike those opposite, we listened to the answers to the questions about the roles that the commissioners will have to play. the six candidates we met with were satisfied with their ability to assume the responsibilities they will be given.
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. i would like to refer to a procedural motion from the other side of the house concerning the presence of commissioners. if we require the presence of the commissioners, it seems to me fair and proper to require the presence of all members of parliament in this chamber. i would like to point out to the other side of the house that it cannot be selective in applying the principles. - thank you. - thank you.
- mr president, the socialist members, of whom i am a member, of the committee on employment and social affairs are of the opinion that mrs diamantopoulou has shown that she has the competence and the qualities to be a good commissioner for employment and social affairs. we will give her all the encouragement and support she needs to move social europe forward in the commission. we hope that his colleagues will listen to him loyally. she is not unaware of the trials we will impose on her. i would like to mention three. first, the commitment to start a dialogue with the members of the commission as soon as possible with a view to drawing up a new social action programme for the new commission's mandate, which takes account of the new features of the euro and the new opportunities offered by the treaty of amsterdam in promoting employment and equal opportunities, and combating insecurity and exclusion. secondly, the search for a new agreement with parliament on the application of the social dialogue provisions of the social chapter. neither the procedure itself nor the legitimate expectations of this democratically elected institution have been respected by the procedure followed so far. this is an urgent priority. thirdly, the commission will have to join parliament in calling on the council to end the exclusion of parliament from the cologne macroeconomic dialogue. if there is one thing we would do without today, it is to increase the democratic deficit. we hope that everything will go well tomorrow and we are happy to work with her on these various points.
- mr president, we look forward to working with the president-designate of the commission and with the commission. the opportunity has come to verify their commitment to work with parliament and to respond positively to our wish to see the reform process implemented and also their constructive commitment to respond to the wish of members to see the european economy based on experience, competence and creativity and the european society based on inclusion, diversity and cultural richness. what cannot be ignored are the challenges of globalisation facing our union, the boom in the audiovisual and information society, the need for a deep and wide-ranging educational capacity and, finally, the need to establish the legitimacy of our institutions and to reinvigorate their forms. these are the challenges which will be at the heart of the reform process and which my committee is interested in. i hope that the commissioners-designate will move forward with our confidence but also with the understanding that their success reflects ours. together we can work for the future of the european union.
- mr president, by holding these hearings we have just completed a voting and transparency exercise which does not exist in any of our member states. imagine what it would be like if the government of each of our countries had to go through a procedure requiring its members to answer a questionnaire of some fifty pages and undergo a three-hour public inquiry before the national parliament votes confidence in it to take office! we can be proud of what we've accomplished. it is true that this procedure is new, that parliament is young and that things have not been perfect. some of the questions were far from profound. we can do some things better next time. however, at the end of this procedure, we are assured, on this side of parliament, that the commission appointed is much better than the previous one. we were concerned about the past activities of two commissioners in particular, but national investigations into their activities have shown that they are innocent and, in the absence of new information, parliament would have difficulty in pursuing these cases. but the president of the commission has obtained the right, which his predecessors did not have, to demand the resignation of a commissioner if necessary, which means that we can be assured - and we will be vigilant in this regard - that, in the event of a new development, we will be able to act. we have tried on this side of parliament not to pursue a party or national policy, not to play a petty game. we thought that parliament would approach the hearings in a professional and responsible way. we are satisfied with the result of the opportunities this new procedure offers us.
- mr president, i would like to make three comments on the hearings, their outcome and the elements which still need to be put in place between the incoming commission and parliament. as regards the hearings, i agree with mr corbett that this is a good start, but there are still some things that need to be improved for the next hearings, which will be held in 2004, including the possibility of voting on the appointment of individual commissioners, after a vote in favour or against by the parliamentary committee, if only as an indication. secondly, we must have time, during the hearings, to pursue issues which the committees have clearly dealt with differently. finally, the committees should have the same time. the committee on fisheries has had only one hour, while other committees had three. we must settle these details in parliament. as regards the outcome, without referring to certain individuals, many in my group have already pointed out which candidates for the incoming commission were good or bad. our conservative position was put forward by the conservative leader, mr mcmillan-scott. there is an imbalance in the commission and i think that is where we need to move forward. firstly, in the light of our experience, that of the 1996 discharge for which i was responsible, can we really be sure that a commissioner-designate will resign if we vote against him? second, how can we make sure that we will have all the information we need? during the previous term we were unable to obtain the information we needed, which was terribly frustrating. finally, as regards the codes of conduct, we would like to see promotions on the basis of merit and that promotions to the highest level of the commission involve management skills, which has not always been the case until now. these are the elements which my group considers important. we want them to be included in the agreement between the commission and parliament, because the number of abstentions or votes against the commission in the final vote tomorrow will depend on the place these elements will be given until tomorrow.
- mr president, the task before you is of great importance and no one is more aware of it than the committee on budgetary control. the number one priority must be the timetable for reform. if you do not keep your word in this matter, we will judge you all very harshly and we will all suffer. but as mr kinnock said yesterday, you will be judged on your actions, not your words. on behalf of the socialists in the committee on budgetary control, i should like to concentrate my comments on mr kinnock's presentation at the hearing. mr kinnock's profile is excellent and we fully accept his commitment to taking collective responsibility for the problems of the past, while admitting that he was not individually responsible. the action and management of the transport directorate is exemplary and we believe that, with its experience in modernising the british labour party, it has the necessary skills to undertake the task that will be entrusted to it. if you are able to bring the labour party, which was in a sorry state in the 1980s, to the position in the 1990s when we turned everything upside down, you must really be able to work miracles. we take note of the commission's commitment to the reform timetable and, in particular, mr prodi, of your commitment to consult the european parliament on the reform programme. we hope that this will be done before the presentation in february. we note the commitment to consult on the reform of the staff regulations, which meets some of mr elles' concerns, the new commitments on internal informers and the need to develop new disciplinary procedures. we also welcome the idea of giving legal effect to the established codes of conduct and the review of the commission's management and control systems. we ask for active and continuous consultation of parliament and we have no doubt that the commissioners will keep their commitment to this. we are concerned that the commission respects olaf's independence. we will not allow you to play with the budget in this area. the process of reform has begun and we are glad that we are now in a position to act.
- mr president, i am sorry to have to proceed with a second procedural motion, when i have not yet made my first speech in this parliament. i would point out to my colleague that the amsterdam treaty provides for an end to discrimination, not only against women but against a whole range of minorities, on the basis of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability. i hope that the commission will address this problem in its entirety and not just equal opportunities for women in a procedural motion.
- mr president, there has been a lot of talk today about the cynicism and hypocrisy of the past, but i would like to say that there is nothing more cynical or hypocritical than the attitude of people who have already announced that they will vote against the commission by commenting on the conduct of the hearings. some parts of the assembly had announced before the hearings began their intention to reject the commission. the progressive forces in this parliament - and i say this to members like mr van velzen and others - must unite after tomorrow's vote to work with the new european commission to make real progress, because we have been stagnating for nine months. we must put an end to the political guerrilla warfare in parliament. we have to work together. if i may, i would like to make a few comments on the fact that two members of the appointed commission have been criticised. mr prodi, we are not writing a blank cheque to the european commission, we will be watching very carefully what you and your colleagues do. but we will not accept that any member of this commission should be prosecuted by the press of a member state of the union. if there is evidence, it will be brought forward, and we'll be counting on you to take whatever action is necessary. we in the socialist group in the european parliament will vote not on a party political basis but on the objective basis of the hearings and the answers that have been given in recent weeks. let me take up the point mr van velzen made because i think there are two stages to this process. we have had the speech of the president of the commission and we have had the hearings, but the second stage is the european commission's work plan. the work plan should be a very interesting indication of the path the european union is on and what the european union intends to do. the second stage is vital, even if in the past, even under mr delors and jacques santer, it was never considered as such. that is why i agree with mr van velzen: we must ensure that this work plan is understood by the citizens and that it is important to the citizens; and we must work with you to develop this work plan. the hearings have been a good start and after the vote tomorrow the progressive forces in this parliament will be able to work with the commission to do the work that the european citizens expect.
- mr president, i would like to comment on the procedure and substance of the hearings of the candidates for commissioners. i think that these hearings were not without their faults, because the committees did not have enough time to ask all their questions. i am drawing on the experience of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. we had to reserve time for delegations from other committees, so that neither my group, nor our committee, nor the members of the delegations had enough time to ask all the questions they wanted to ask the appointed commissioners, mr liikanen and mr lamy. we are very sorry. the second point where the hearings were flawed was the impossibility of an indicative vote at the end of each hearing. i know that not everyone agrees with this, but it seems to me that if we cannot give an indicative vote, the key element, whether members feel that the commissioner-designate is competent or not, cannot be determined precisely. let's get down to business. i have mentioned two commissioners-designate, but there is a third who has come before us, commissioner-designate mr busquin. we had more time to ask questions because no committee had sent a delegation, which is no coincidence. i am afraid that mr busquin has not convinced the majority of my colleagues in the committee by answering questions about his role in past financial scandals and his ability to take on this portfolio. we doubt whether he has the sense of responsibility and the leadership skills to carry out the tasks facing the commission. after this hearing, the sunday times published an article this weekend which casts further doubt on the veracity of mr busquin's answers to parliament. i've asked the president to consider it. consequently, i am afraid that commissioner busquin is far from perfect, mr prodi.
- madam president, this is the first speech i am going to make in this house and the tradition of the house of commons from which i come would have me spend a lot of time talking about the beauty of my region. but since time does not permit it, i will simply thank those who sent me here to do so and say that i will try to defend their interests to the best of my ability. i will not vote for the prodi commission. firstly, despite my friendship for my former colleague in parliament, mr neil kinnock, my party and i have committed ourselves at the european elections not to support the commission if it includes former members. i suppose no one will agree, but i hope that people will understand that in a democratic society, when you make a commitment to your constituents, you must try to keep it when you are elected. secondly, i will not vote for this commission because i do not think that anything has really changed in the last few weeks, in the substance, as a result of the hearings we have had. we have not had enough time to question the commissioners, we have not had enough time to conduct the interviews. there has been no individual vote in any committee on any commissioner, no commissioner has been forced to resign following questions concerning his or her competence and no commissioner has accepted any responsibility in relation to past events. given that tomorrow we will not be able to vote individually for the commissioners and given that i cannot individually express my vote in this house on whether mr patten would make a good foreign affairs commissioner, i have no choice but to vote against the commission as a whole in order to tell mr prodi and his colleagues that if elected they will have to answer to this parliament, they will have to accept that things have to change and that we have to change the way we act if we want the citizens of europe to have the necessary confidence in this parliament and in their institutions.
commission. - mr president, it is high time for us all to complete this transitional period: once parliament has approved the new commission, the powers can be transferred to the new commissioners. firstly, i would like to state briefly that the budget is a legal obligation of the commission, in accordance with the treaty. the commission in office must prepare the budget - it has no choice but to do so. i have only a few comments to make on the draft budget adopted by the council: it proposes a reduction of eur 430 million in commitments and eur 1.7 billion in payments. while these reductions are normal at this stage of the budgetary procedure, they are accompanied this year by a substantial redeployment of eur 430 million in category 4 - external actions - to finance the reconstruction of kosovo, which will amount to eur 500 million. if redeployment is necessary to finance this new priority, account should be taken of the fact that excessive redeployment risks destabilising the budgetary and political balance of external relations. the main source of funding for the action in kosovo should therefore be redeployment, but it may be complemented by other means. as regards agricultural expenditure, the new commission will communicate the new forecasts at the end of october in its now traditional letter of amendment, which has been accepted by the institutions. i note the council's overall concern to improve the situation of outstanding commitments, by responding to most of the commission's requests. in category 2 - structural measures - payments can be reduced, in line with the proposal to adjust the advance from 4 to 3.5%: this can be done without too much difficulty. finally, however, i would like to draw your attention to a major illogic in the council's decision. the council proposes to increase the commission's administrative expenditure by only 0.9% while it forecasts a 3.5% increase for the other institutions. the council decided on this reduction on the assumption that the commission would increase the number of vacant posts and thus achieve significant savings. this objective runs counter to the wishes expressed by the european parliament for years and the commitments made by the commission to reduce the number of vacant posts. the key to the success of this year's budgetary procedure is the €430 million for the reconstruction of kosovo and turkey following the earthquake. i am sure that the new commission will make this a top priority and then come forward with a balanced proposal.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, if i may, i would like to make a point to the colleagues in the back who have come in on a point of order, which was not really a point of order but a criticism. the commission is not presenting anything today - it is the council that is presenting its draft budget. and this time the commission is not necessarily an adversary - in fact, it is rather an ally. the opposition is these people! let us not forget that a budget has been presented to us today. this is not a condemnation of the sitting president, which i very much appreciate. moreover, mr president, this process has been under way for several months. many people are involved and the work has been very hard. i would like to pay tribute to two people who have devoted themselves to this. firstly, mr samland, the former chairman of the committee on budgets, who left parliament at the end of the previous parliamentary term. he worked tirelessly, to the end, to ensure that the council and parliament worked together, without which we will not be able to get the budget for the year 2000 that we all want. the second person i would like to thank is none other than mr liikanen. as a commissioner - or commissioner-designate - this is probably the last time you will come here to discuss budgets. in recent years we have not had a confrontation, we have had the opportunity to try to solve many problems. you deserve to be congratulated on the work you have done in the budgetary field and particularly in areas where you have tried to change things within the commission. i wish you the best of luck in the future. mr president, that is all the positive comments. let us now turn our attention to the budget. let us not confuse this debate with tomorrow's debate on supplementary and amending budgets 1, 3 and 4 for 1999, because, if the president-in-office says that the spirit of cooperation is based on mutual trust (that is what i have noted) between the institutions, i must remind the council what it has done with supplementary and amending budgets 1 and 3 and our reaction to that. this has nothing to do with the spirit of cooperation and certainly does not promote mutual trust. it reminds me of a story i told mr liikanen. mrs dührkop, when she was rapporteur, compared the harmonious relationship to a symphony played on a grand piano. it reminded me of a famous comedy duo in the uk - morecombe and wise - and a scene where eric morecombe plays the grand piano in a cacophonous way. andré previn tells him, "all the notes you play are wrong", and morecombe replies, "all the notes i play are right, but i don't necessarily play them in the right order". we must get the right notes in the right order if we are to have a harmonious relationship between the council and parliament. madam president-in-office, you have reminded us of the areas where we have reached agreement during the trilogues, on the autumn letters of amendment, the commitment appropriations for the structural funds and on what our priorities must clearly be. you also said that the budget must be as rigorous as national budgets. we have always considered this committee on budgets and parliament itself to be extremely cautious. they do not go off the rails, so as not to create problems in the budget or waste taxpayers' money. our problems are mainly due to the member states, where 85% of the european union's funds are actually managed and where 85% of our problems take place. if we had better cooperation with the member states, we would not have so many problems. in addition, the national budget of many member states is in deficit. we can't afford that. as regards the other categories, i agree with what the president-in-office said on category 1, namely that agricultural expenditure must take account of recent facts. that is why we agree to an ad hoc procedure; that is why we agree to the autumn letter of amendment. but i really don't understand why you made cuts in category 1. if we have to wait to see what the situation is now, why have we already introduced cuts in category 1? it seems to be an exercise in taking money out of the system to please the member states. as far as category 2 is concerned, we may have the commitment on the commitment credit but we do not have the same arrangement when it comes to payments. withdrawing €1 billion from payments, once again, is only a burden for later. the member states will have to pay eventually. there is no point in hiding or avoiding reality. it won't go away. this money has to be paid sometime. we think it is good to do it now, this decision should not be postponed. on the subject of category 3 reductions, there are many areas where we will disagree and where we will admit to disagreeing. on category 4, i find the general 10% reduction totally unacceptable - i am speaking before parliament before it has taken a decision. yes, kosovo is a priority; yes, we want to make sure that funds are available for east timor and for the earthquake victims in turkey. but to do so will require a review of the financial perspective. that will certainly be our position. yes, we want a solution. we are not looking for confrontation between our two institutions, but at the end of the day we want to make sure that this does not come at the expense of development, other sections of category 4 and external spending. if there is insufficient funding, we will look for areas where reductions can be made. but a general reduction of 10% is not a good method. as regards category 5, it is regrettable that the council has still not proposed a solution to the problem of pensions within the institutions. i am sure that my colleagues mr bourlanges and mr virrankoski will also be speaking on this. we look forward to the first reading next month, when the council will have a very good idea of our opinion on its draft budget.
- madam president, the presidency of the council has reviewed the main points and identified three areas which the president-in-office spoke about this morning: asylum and immigration, the fight against crossborder crime and the establishment of a european area of justice. i should like to touch briefly on each of these three points. the political challenge in asylum and immigration is balancing the need to protect asylum as an individual right and the need to properly guarantee refugee protection, with the desire to oppose economic migration. europe needs a common migration policy. we need at least some common minimum standards. these standards should be based on the 1951 geneva convention and the unhcr guidelines. we must avoid the lowest common denominator approach, which would weaken the level of protection. the european union must show that it will not become a fortress, fearing infection from outside, but that it will remain a refuge for the dispossessed. the events of recent years have shown us how easily situations of mass refugee flows can arise. tampere must send a clear message that we must separate the issue of asylum from the debate on migration. the temporary protection regime is commendable but only in exceptional circumstances and it should not deny the right to individual examination of asylum applications. let us make sure that we are not re-thinking asylum as a political decision but that we continue to consider asylum as a human right. (applause) i would like to thank it is clear that europol has a role to play in the fight against crossborder crime. let him play that part. but this is only part of the solution. there are other ways of strengthening police cooperation, such as the idea of a european police college. there are also ways of strengthening judicial cooperation, such as some of the ideas that have been put forward under the heading 'eurojust', bringing together prosecutors and magistrates from different countries to punish cross-border crime. we need to define the precise role, powers and financial implications of eurojust and the question of accountability. we must maintain a balance between prosecuting crimes and protecting the rights of the accused. much has been said about making life more difficult for criminals, but harmonizing crimes and penalties is an ambitious project. this project has been compared with the 1992 single market programme. it is worth studying, but let us be careful not to make the best the enemy of the good. let us also turn to the progress made in the mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters. i would challenge you, madam president-in-office, to define the european area of justice. in civil law, it seems to want to facilitate access to justice. there are various opportunities for us to make progress in crossborder litigation. we already have a certain degree of harmonization. some conventions are under consideration, such as the one on driving licences. much can also be done in terms of mutual recognition. but when it comes to the european area of criminal justice, it may be a matter of acting as if there were no legal boundaries in europe. in the harmonization of criminal law, the fundamental concept is total confidence in each other's legal systems. in such cases, minimum common standards and safeguards are necessary, for example, with regard to the treatment of suspects in custody. criminal justice systems in the member states require rigorous and transparent evaluation. we need a form of inspection and evaluation to inspire confidence, a form of inspection and evaluation perhaps comparable to the schengen test on border controls. we need to invest in judicial systems and in the training of judges and magistrates. i recommend to the presidency the proposal for a european bail system whereby people can be released on bail pending trial, provided they spend that period on bail in their own country. in conclusion, madam president-in-office, the agenda for tampere is broad, the contributions of the member states are many and varied. your ideas do not seem complete, so you will excuse our skepticism about the prospects of success. here we need the ministers of justice and home affairs if we are to make real progress. the european parliament must be involved. this means that we have full access to the documentation as the debate progresses. finally, tampere must support public opinion, adapt its ambitions to the human and financial resources available, but it must also give us guidelines to demonstrate the importance of this area of freedom, security and justice to ordinary people. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, this is my first speech in this house and i would like to stress that this summit must be much more than a public safety committee. his agenda must be balanced. the treaty requires the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice, but the tampere summit is in danger of turning into a summit on security. of course we want the prime ministers to take measures to protect against such threatening elements as organised crime, drug trafficking, terrorism and sexual crime, but also to focus on discrimination and racism. let them also deal with the problems of bank secrecy and tax havens that provide a cover for money laundering. they must ensure that european citizens are protected from injustice so that those arrested in a country other than their own can benefit from legal representation and interpretation, and from bail. instead of seeking to harmonise european legal systems, they simply need to start by establishing cross-border justice for people who are struggling with excessive paperwork. while it is important to tackle illegal immigration and violations of asylum law, governments must respect their obligations under the geneva convention to grant asylum to genuine refugees and to treat them with compassion and dignity, not demonize them. the treaty emphasises freedom and respect for human rights as fundamental principles. we must insist that the charter of fundamental rights must be drawn up with the cooperation of parliament as an equal partner, but it must also be binding. it must not be merely a pious private statement. as citizens, we require certain rights that go against our own governments, such as control of our police, customs and intelligence services. freedom of information must be a fundamental priority, and so must ratification of the international criminal court and the prosecution of those responsible for crimes against humanity. the message we need to get across today is that tampere must be about citizens, not just bureaucrats, and we must increase democratic accountability. finally, if our national leaders want to set an example of justice and good business management, let them disown their foreign ministers who shamefully want to place the kosovo reconstruction agency in thessaloniki. this petty arrangement is the exact opposite of what the european union should tolerate.
- madam president, the people i represent have no confidence in commissioner patten on matters of law and order. mr patten has just recommended what i would call a terrorist charter for northern ireland. 302 members of our police, the royal ulster constabulary, were brutally murdered and 8,700 were cruelly maimed. and yet mr patten insists that the police must be brought under a new decision-making body in which the ira would be represented. if the commission adopts this way of thinking in the field of crime, drugs, etc., what will be the future of the european union? it contains the seeds of its own destruction.
- madam president, the president-in-office has confessed that if you asked the member states what they wanted, the message would be clear. the motion for a resolution on tampere is, in my view, part of that message. it is an example of the citizens' agenda. if it is enacted in tampere and applied by the member states, this motion will prove to the most sceptical of our citizens that real progress has been made. many of them do not really feel concerned about the extension of qualified majority voting, important as it is, but they look forward to progress on citizens' rights, progress on freedom of movement, a truly integrated europe in which people know and understand their rights and responsibilities. you have stressed the importance of this agenda if we want the enlargement of the european union to be a success. we must also put our own house in order. it is absolutely crucial to achieve freedom, justice, security and transparency before enlargement, and i am sure that many of you share this view. our europe is based on what we have in common and does not erect barriers to highlight our differences. in his speech, mr camre opposed support for the poorest countries. i want to tell him and the other members that it is impossible to guarantee real prosperity and security to 350 million people in 15 countries if we do not give our neighbours a little hope and if we do not deny them the same rights as ourselves. walls, guns and iron curtains do not solve the problem of asylum seekers and refugees. that is why it is so important that the tampere summit and this resolution be a success. it is not the case that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the commission has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the fact that the council has not been able to take account of the facts. i am very optimistic about tampere. i believe that this summit will not be a mere step forward but will become a summit of historic importance. i wish the finnish presidency every success.
- madam president, i would like to emphasize the remarks made by mr napolitano and mr voggenhuber. it is absolutely vital that this parliament be fully and properly represented in the preparation of the union's charter of rights. let me also say to the president-in-office that the principle of subsidiarity must be strictly respected in tampere, as in all other aspects of the union's work. my constituency has had an independent legal system for over 500 years, with a distinct tradition in justice and home affairs. scotland is not a member state per se, but it has now regained a parliament of its own which makes laws for its justice and home affairs. it is vital that scotland and other similar regions are given due consideration in the formulation of policies addressing these issues. finally, i fully agree with what the president-in-office said, namely that we must apply the rights. it makes no sense to have charters of rights and rights enshrined in treaties if they are ignored in practice. during my short time in this house, my attention was drawn to the case of these foreign-language readers in italy. for 11 years, one eu member state has effectively denied them rights granted to them by the european court of justice. i hope that the council and the commission will take very strict measures to ensure that in this case, as in others, the rights which we have been granted do not lose their validity as a result of the action of a state.
- mr president, it is shameful that the commission should be overshadowed at this historic moment for europe. mr prodi's objections are not without serious flaws. threats of resignation, which are blackmail, indicate a weakness that is already showing and will develop into a purulent infection. if this vote had taken place before the elections, i am sure the result would have been somewhat different. as i said earlier in this house, the people i represent in particular have no confidence in commissioner patten. we cannot tolerate his insults to the dear missing and mutilated of our police. mr patten may forget, but we will not. mr. patten can bury their heroism, we'll make sure it lives on. i pay them solemn tribute in this house today.
- mr president, i voted against. the reasons for my abstention were that the relevance of the appointment of the commission had to be proved 'beyond reasonable doubt'. in my opinion, and in the opinion of my colleague mr hudghton, the correct verdict would have been 'no place'. i acknowledge the quality and skill of many commissioners and the fact that the majority of members of this parliament have, after all, decided to vote for the commission as a whole. so we'll be happy to work with them. however, i still believe that there are still too many doubts about some commissioners and about the conduct of the commission in general. they didn't disappear. i cannot in good conscience justify to the people of my constituency in scotland a yes vote today. on the other hand, there is as yet no compelling evidence to justify the commission's total rejection. in these circumstances, positive abstention seemed to me the best way to vote.
in writing. - in judging the prodi commission, the most important thing for me is whether this team of 20 commissioners has convinced me of its ability to significantly restore public confidence in the european union and its institutions. unfortunately, the individual hearings and the various statements by mr prodi did not convince me. the members of the european parliament have been under great pressure to approve the new commission, so that we can return to business as usual, but there are still some aspects of the prodi team that are subject to doubt and reservations: we must compare the two. the commission is a government for europe, mr prodi said. i would not be inclined to vote for this concept, but even if i did, i could not vote for this commission to be appointed to this role. i want real improvements in the area of financial management and control within the commission. i want the commission to change its attitude towards the european parliament. i want a commission which is important to the lives and aspirations of our citizens. the only verdict i can apply to mr prodi's team is "not appropriate" and i therefore express an abstention.
in writing. - during the winter of 1998/99, the european parliament reached its majority, leading to the resignation of the santer commission and thereby establishing its own place in the european political order. however, i am afraid that the way in which we as an institution have examined the prodi commission has not been satisfactory. we lacked structure, depth and consistency. this has made it impossible for me to approve the appointments of the member states. before considering the next commission, i think parliament should ask the committee on the rules of procedure to draw up detailed procedures covering all aspects of a much more detailed and thorough set of hearings. otherwise we will ruin the public's confidence in us and disappoint the european citizens, who have not been very well served by parliament's actions in relation to the prodi commission.
in writing. - i voted against this commission and my decision was not taken lightly. i have listened carefully to both today's debate and the replies given to us by the commissioners-designate in the parliamentary hearings over the last few weeks, and i still have serious concerns and serious reservations. my concerns are twofold: first, the political side. we could not of course expect a green commission. we were waiting for evidence of a greater awareness of how to prioritize and implement the fundamental issues of social justice and environmental sustainability. on the other hand, we have assessed the ability of the commissioners to meet a huge expectation, namely to introduce a very different form of behaviour and culture within the commission. we wanted them to prove to us that they could bring about real reform, long-term, radical reform. so in order to be able to vote for this commission, i should have to be able to say that i fully endorse the commitments that these commissioners, as a whole, have made to introduce precisely these fundamental reforms. i should be able to say that the integrity and good judgment of these commissioners are beyond reproach. i should be able to say that the citizens of europe and i can have full confidence in these commissioners. i am very sorry, but what i have heard and read in the last few weeks and months makes me feel that i cannot say that about a number of commissioners in the commission appointed. i cannot therefore say that i would be able to justify to my electorate a vote in favour of this new commission.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, when i entered, i was immediately struck by three surprises. first of all, i saw you sitting there, not here, for our budget debate. the great advantage of this situation is that, since you are there and not here, the socialists will now have a wider speaking time because you too would have had a speaking time in this debate. my second surprise was to see commissioner liikanen, after congratulating him yesterday. i was about to congratulate mrs schreyer on her first debate when i suddenly saw her. my third surprise is that no council member is here, this debate being about the brs. i note this with great sadness because the council deserves criticism for brs1 and brs3. i said that in a trilogue, we said it in our committee and i now want that to be made public. the way the council has behaved with brs1 and 3 is nothing short of shameful: a slap in the face for parliament. for those who do not understand what i am talking about, i am referring to the deadline for the submission of supplementary and amending budgets, which means that we will not have the opportunity to debate them in depth. we shall vote on them this week, but it will be a formality. i hope it doesn't happen again. if i think they will do the same next year, for example submit a brs at the end of july, i will not hesitate to call a special meeting of the committee on budgets within 45 calendar days to block it so that we can have a thorough debate. the council has done nothing to foster the trust we are trying to establish between our two institutions. it has only generated antagonism and suspicion. however, the institutions worked at a considerable speed on the brs4. the council took account of our requests and completed its work within a week. tomorrow we will vote on the brs4. that is encouraging. our institutions have cooperated for brs4, and we are pleased. we welcome the fact that funds from category 1 are being used for external expenditure and we welcome the speed with which this is being done. however, two things need to be raised about brs4. firstly, the 15 additional posts for olaf are there, we accept that, but we must stress that there must be a brs5. the brs5 must be delayed because the commission has payments to make, but we will insist on the establishment of a brs5 and 15 additional posts for olaf in the resolution we will be voting on. this is a political decision which the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control are called upon to take. and the message to mrs schreyer, if not from you, commissioner, at least from the commission services, is that we want an early meeting with mrs schreyer to discuss the contents of a brs5 to be presented to parliament as soon as possible and, more importantly, to include additional staff for olaf.
- mr president, may i put this debate in context? after indonesia invaded east timor in 1976, the united nations refused to recognize indonesia's sovereignty over east timor. first, let's get this straight. only the australians recognized indonesian sovereignty, and after a while even they admitted they had made a mistake. so legally, we did not have to ask permission to send an international peacekeeping force to that area. however, we did. and now, at last, they've agreed. but when will this force intervene? hopefully by the end of the week. who will lead it? not the indonesians, i hope. i heard on tv this morning that a faction of the indonesian military said they actually wanted to lead the multinational peacekeeping force! fortunately, the foreign minister had a different view, but of course the two sides are at odds at the moment. but whatever force is driving it, it must intervene now, before more atrocities are committed. these atrocities are committed daily. churches and schools are burned. people are being cut to pieces. yesterday, i heard about a nun. we told her we were going to save her and she shouldn't look at the church. she looked around and saw blood on the church door, blood of women, children and priests. what had they done? i didn't say anything. and this is not an isolated case. members of the united nations were attacked while trying to bring food and the military did nothing. if there is no way to get food and shelter through, we are running into a humanitarian catastrophe, not only in east timor but also in west timor. the last reported incident was of these refugees being put on a boat. they were told it was a rescue mission. the boat then returned a short while later with no one on board. this is a genuine case of genocide. (applause) i would like to thank that's why we need a war crimes tribunal to bring these people to justice. what else can we do? a military embargo, yes, but it should have been enacted earlier. the delivery of hawk fighters from britain should have been suspended much earlier. i'm glad they're now deleted, but it's a little too late. the peacekeeping force must intervene now. the people responsible for monitoring humanitarian aid and human rights in east and west timor must leave now, but more importantly, the indonesian government must be held accountable.
- mr president, i began my military career as a british army officer in the mid-1960s. i was involved in military operations against the indonesian army in borneo to defend the newly formed state of malaysia. it may be appropriate to begin my parliamentary duties by referring to indonesia and another state in the making, i mentioned east timor. it has been two weeks since the referendum in east timor. the outcome of the referendum and its terrible consequences were predictable. yet the international community, with some exceptions, seems to have been surprised by the way this tragedy has unfolded. it is very clear that pressure had to be put on indonesia and many of us have called for the swift suspension of financial assistance from the world bank and the imf and the suspension of arms exports and military cooperation. we therefore welcome the common position adopted, albeit belatedly, by the general affairs council. if decisive action had been taken earlier, then perhaps the response of the indonesian authorities would have been different. the most urgent need now is the deployment of a peacekeeping force and the distribution of humanitarian aid. i do not necessarily think that the appropriate response on the part of europe to crises affecting regions far from its borders is a military response. but the crisis in east timor has highlighted the difficulties facing europeans in meeting another peacekeeping duty. the fact is that the possibilities available to europeans in this area are limited, even if a response would be desirable. there are limits to what we can do. eu member states do not spend enough on their armed forces and what they do spend is often badly spent. over the years, the uk has developed a very effective military capability and yet the uk armed forces are now desperately overwhelmed and many eu member states spend a smaller share of their gdp on defence than the uk. the most useful contribution of the european union in a situation like that of east timor is probably more civil than military. in this situation, it's wiser for us to focus on that. according to ms halonen, the commission was asked to prepare a socio-economic programme to set up institutions in east timor. we very much welcome this but this programme will require rapid implementation as soon as the security situation allows, coordination with contributions from other institutions and countries and very careful management to ensure its effectiveness. finally, there is another aspect of this tragedy that must not be overlooked. the most horrific crimes have been committed in recent weeks against timorese and other citizens, and those responsible for these crimes must be brought to justice.
- mr president, this debate is timely. as we speak, the united nations security council has voted a resolution under chapter 7 of the united nations charter. the resolution was intended to allow the intervention of an international peacekeeping force led by australia in east timor. she's two weeks late. the uk, usa, new zealand, canada, philippines and thailand have now committed men and equipment to the international peacekeeping force. it's too late. china, russia, south korea and malaysia have pledged to provide assistance. it's too late. the international community has finally woken up. as usual, and this will not change, we give too little, too late. since the referendum in east timor, up to 10,000 people have been murdered for voting for independence. 300,000 people, including children, out of a total population of 800,000, have been displaced and are now homeless; they hide in the jungle, without shelter, without food, without sanitation. what amazes me is that the international community and the united nations have learned nothing, have made no plans from the experiences of somalia, rwanda, bosnia, kosovo and now east timor. what's wrong with us? and yet, there are constant calls for the international community to repair the damage caused by cruel tyrants, ethnic cleansers, as they are called, and genocidal dictators. under the terms of the montevideo conference, we are obliged under international law to recognize these cruel regimes as independent and sovereign states. perhaps we should now re-examine this definition and encourage an international debate on whether democracies like ours should give recognition, respectability and equal treatment to regimes around the world that deny democracy and the rule of law, human rights and good governance. it is certainly time now to distinguish, redefine and tighten up the criteria as we do now for aid. if good business management is a prerequisite for development aid, why should it not also be a fundamental criterion for international recognition, bilateral relations and trade development? the imf recently recognized this in indonesia and it is time for the member states of the european union to do the same.
- mr president, the council told us this morning that east timor deserves our deep support. we were told that we had sent observers who played a crucial role in the success of the referendum, when the people of east timor said loud and clear 'yes' to independence. the council has told us that the commission is preparing social and economic aid for the newly independent state of east timor, which we of course welcome. mrs halonen also told us that she was surprised by the terror that had taken place following the referendum. i'm surprised at her surprise. i was in jakarta in august as a special representative of the undp, working with the indonesian parliament, the dprk, on new regulations for it. it seemed clear to me then - and it seemed even clearer to everyone in jakarta - that we would have gotten a resounding "yes" as a result of the referendum and then the army, or at least large sections of the army, would have tried to reverse this process by installing and encouraging terror. that is what happened, but why are we surprised, i wonder. i welcome the intervention of the peacekeeping force. i welcome the humanitarian aid that is being provided to help the 200,000 to 400,000 refugees. i am pleased to hear that €8 million will be made available for this humanitarian aid. but it must be distributed quickly. i agree, in the meantime, that this aid can be distributed by air. we were told that it would be parachuted by helicopters from a height of 1,500 meters. remember the aid sent by air and by parachute to kurdish refugees. the experiment was not very conclusive. as i recall, some of the refugees were actually killed. the aid must be distributed by land as soon as possible. we must ensure that this is a matter of days and not weeks. i agree that the arms embargo is necessary. we must stop the sale of arms to indonesia and i welcome this four-month ban. we may have to extend it, but at the same time we must help the indonesians by providing the necessary assistance to ensure that the very fragile democracy that was elected in the last general elections is able to take hold. otherwise we will have a similar debate on indonesia in november or december, repeating that we knew it would end in tears.
- mr president, i grew up in portugal and i collected portuguese stamps and i remember particularly the colourful and attractive stamps of east timor. the provincia esquecida, or forgotten province of portugal, as it was then known, offered the image of a beautiful and remote pacific island, an exotic blend of east and west, giving it a unique catholic cultural heritage. i have never been there, but i am deeply concerned by the suffering of the timorese since the annexation of timor to indonesia in 1975, when a third of the population was killed - a death rate even higher than in the former yugoslavia. the united nations recognizes the right of the timorese to self-determination and the sovereignty of portugal over its territories. we in the west did not wait for a un resolution to bomb the former yugoslavia in the kosovo area, which is still part of yugoslavia, and yet we have, for whatever reason, wanted to avoid military intervention in the past on behalf of the timorese people. i have always believed that foreign military intervention should only take place to serve the national interests of the states concerned, but the serious deterioration of the situation and the spiral of violence that is striking the region calls for action and is facing the test of the new ethical foreign policy of which portugal is a full member state. as a british citizen, i am happy to support portugal in its efforts to achieve a just outcome, not only because portugal is britain's oldest ally, but also because it must be given the opportunity to grant independence to all its colonies, including the last one, not macao but east timor. britain has had that opportunity. we have granted self-determination to all our colonies where it was legally possible to do so. human rights must be applied universally and without exception in order to be used as a casus belli, as was the case with kosovo. i therefore fully support and welcome the un council resolution on the establishment of an international peacekeeping force including countries of goodwill and especially neighbours such as australia and new zealand. this will allow 78% of the east timorese who voted on 30 august to create their own independent and sovereign state and to envisage a peaceful and prosperous future at home. finally, and this is no less important, i pay tribute to the courage of the people of east timor. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, like other speakers in this debate, i would like to draw the attention of this house to the appalling double standards and hypocrisy displayed by the british foreign secretary, robin cook, throughout the tragic crisis currently affecting east timor. when mr cook was appointed foreign secretary, he launched an ethical foreign policy which included, among other things, a commitment to a strict code of conduct on arms export controls. he has nevertheless allowed the export of hawk ground attack aircraft to be used by the indonesian military, in violation of his own ethical foreign policy and arms export guidelines. the contract having been signed by the previous conservative government, mr cook said it could not be broken. he repeatedly assured us that there were contractual clauses that guaranteed that jets would not be used for offensive purposes against the people of east timor. now, in the face of the unrelenting atrocities in that country and the clear evidence that these planes were used in attacks in east timor, mr cook has made a surprising turn of events: last saturday he finally cancelled the contract and decided on a temporary ban on arms deliveries. we will never know how many east timorese died because of his refusal to cancel the contract earlier. the british government had assured us that certain things could not happen, but they did; i think that this house is entitled to an explanation from mr cook on this point. we should also ask mr cook why british taxpayers' money was used to finance this outrageous episode and why the british defence minister intervened in person to invite the indonesian military to attend a major arms fair to be held in britain next week. again, it was only as a result of international pressure that mr cook was forced to withdraw the invitation. mr cook must appear before this house - and we must insist on this - to give us an explanation of his extraordinary collaboration with the tyrannical indonesian regime. (applause) i would like to thank
counsel. -{} mr president, as the honourable member rightly points out, the schengen agreements have become an integral part of community legislation with the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam. the schengen regulations, which total more than 700 pages, will be published in the official journal of the ec and will be available on the council's website once they have been translated into all the community languages. the council secretariat has also just published a brochure containing the agreement, the convention and the declarations and decisions adopted by the schengen executive committee. we intend to send this brochure to the person who asked the question.
counsel. - (sv) the documents contained in this manual which will be published in the joce should cover most of the information on which the question is based. if it turns out that a number of them are missing, we will consider to what extent the information concerned can be made available to the public on request and will therefore comply with the decision approved by the council on 20 december 1993.
- mr president, i am very pleased that 700 pages will soon be published. they are of course legally binding on the citizens of europe. but what about the future, as other such laws are about to be voted on in the council of ministers? they will be voted on in the strictest secrecy. the public in the official gallery, we, the mps, the press, no one can attend the vote on the law. what will be the attitude of the finnish presidency to this vote on laws behind closed doors? indeed, only beijing and north korea also pass laws for citizens behind closed doors. shouldn't this be done openly? and are you planning to do something about it?
counsel. -{} mr president, the council has already taken a position on several occasions on the trade negotiations and the future millennium cycle, most recently in resolutions issued at the end of the general affairs council meeting on 21 and 22 june 1999. the council did not formally give the commission negotiating power to prepare the negotiating round. the council decided, however, to return to preparations for the third wto ministerial meeting in october, when the new round is due to begin. the european union's overall position on these preparations will then be decided. in its june 1999 resolutions on the preparations for the third wto ministerial meeting, the council clearly referred to the presidency resolutions issued at the cologne european council on 3 and 4 june 1999 which stated that negotiations on many issues, including labour standards, were the best approach to achieve meaningful and equitable outcomes for the benefit of all wto members.
- mr president, i would like to say on behalf of myself and mr titley that this answer is rather weak. as we know, the cologne council agreed to the need to introduce minimum basic labour standards in the wto millennium round negotiations. it is vital, if we are to bring the world closer together and thereby establish these basic minimum standards - which include the abolition of slavery and child labour - that we start this cycle off right. i therefore hope that the council will take account of many of the issues raised in this parliament, both in committee and in plenary, with regard to these measures. i hope that you will take a more firm stand and give us a more consistent answer once you have considered the full application of your basic negotiating standards. it is essential that you consider this particular element.
counsel. -{}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}} however, it must be borne in mind that the discussions have shown that, especially in the developing countries, there are very great fears that the european union is demanding labour principles which would result in the outright end of imports from the developing countries. we have tried to alleviate these fears with determination, consistency and energy, but they are still relatively persistent. i know, however, that, if only because of the ngos, it is important that progress can be made on the issues of basic labour standards and criteria, so that the next round of wto negotiations can be supported by as many people as possible and be sufficiently credible. i can also assure you that the presidency is determined to find a solution to the question of labour standards in seattle, and that this way we can make real progress on this matter.
- i would like to raise an issue in relation to the relations between the european union and the wto, which concerns both employment and current compliance. some small and mediumsized enterprises in the union are still suffering from sanctions imposed in the context of the banana war because we have been slow to comply with the regulations. consequently, sanctions are still in force. some very vulnerable areas of the union will lose jobs because of this. can the president-in-office assure me that he will seek to ensure that international law is respected and that members of this union are not made to suffer because of sanctions imposed as a result of actions which have been found to be illegal?
counsel. -{} mr president, i agree with the honourable member. it is extremely important that the banana crisis can be resolved before the start of the new round of wto negotiations in seattle. at the general affairs council in july, a decision was taken instructing the commission to make a proposal by september which would ensure that the new eu strategy for the banana sector would be in line with wto rules. the banana question was discussed last monday in the general affairs council and we have had a report on the development of the situation in this matter. the commission has primarily tried to find a solution involving a quota system, but it has been very difficult to reach agreement on any quota system with the banana producing countries and the united states because the countries have very different interests in quotas. if a common solution cannot be found, it is possible that the solution can only be found in a system based on tariffs. the presidency will make every effort to speed up the search for a solution to this issue, one which does not cause any problems with the wto rules. it is important that this dispute can be resolved as quickly as possible and we know that this is also important for a large number of companies that have been subject to the wto-approved customs sanctions.
counsel. -{}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}}} i would like to stress, however, that we must try to find positive solutions for developing countries, so that they can be welcomed. it must be admitted that we will certainly have to consider, for example, the possibility of linking community policy on aid to developing countries more closely to progress in basic labour standards and of helping precisely those countries which have made such progress at home.
- a short comment, mr president. i have heard that answer and i am not at all convinced that, whatever one says, the seville meeting as part of the millennium round will address the question of these minimum standards. quite frankly, it seems to me that we are backing down on certain issues just because it is the wto. we now need answers from a european body as well. we need to know your precise position on these issues, issues that are fundamental, no doubt, to the freedom and well-being of ordinary people around the world, and that directly affect us in the products we buy. we must do more in this respect. it is clear that we also have links with the ilo which have been tested here to the extreme. it is a fact that they have asked for the implementation of many of the things we are talking about. one more thing, mr president. if we want an answer to these questions, we need only look at how the wto has reacted to the canadians who brought the matter of france's unilateral ban on asbestos before the wto. asbestos is a deadly dust which is killing tens of thousands of people in the community, and we will discuss it in the wto. we are not afraid to tackle this issue. we must not be afraid to tackle other issues which also concern basic labour standards. i want to remind the council of this and i just hope that it does.
- mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to speak in this debate on palestine. it is a very important subject which has interested me very closely for many years. mrs morgantini has produced an excellent report which my group and i support. both amendments are very important because they call for an annual report and access to sites, as well as information on the various aspects of funding. i would like to raise a few points in particular. first, we are helping 3.5 million refugees. i know that these people are now in refugee camps and i hope that the european union will play a very positive role in helping them to reintegrate when they flock from neighbouring countries to palestine to settle there again. i hope that the commission, in close cooperation with parliament, will take the initiative to invest more actively in the middle east, instead of remaining on the sidelines and letting the americans take the lead. when we consider our aid, 40 million euros is not a huge sum. i recognize that this is a significant part of the overall contribution, which is 120 million euros, and that 85% of our annual budget of 40 million euros goes to education, which i think is the right choice. we help educate half a million children. i hope that this proposal will lead to something concrete soon because, as mrs morgantini has pointed out, there is an urgency: teachers are losing their jobs or are not being recruited and support in the fields of education and health is fundamental. i hope the commission will do everything it can to speed up the process. mrs morgantini has gone over the whole question. i do not want to waste the time of this house and i thank the president for giving me the opportunity to speak on this matter.
- the agenda calls for a vote. common positions of the council: see minutes. report (a5-0009/99) by mrs dührkop dührkop and mr fabra vallés, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft supplementary and amending budgets nos 1, 3 and 4 to the budget of the european communities for the financial year 1999 (c5-0021/1999, c5-0074/1999 and c5-0130/1999) (parliament adopted the resolution)
- i'm told that the president of the central american parliament, mr. carlos roberto reina, and his wife have just taken their seats in the official gallery. we are delighted that they can join us today and i would ask the house to welcome them. (applause from the left)
- i understand the purpose of your request, but i'm afraid the rules are very strict on this subject and i can't comply. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- i'm still trying to help you and i understand that new members need to familiarize themselves with the rules. it is very clear about the submission of requests for votes by division, by separate vote and by roll-call. there are deadlines for all this, and your group secretariat should inform you of them. i'd like to help you, but i'm afraid i can't.
- you are absolutely right, but we also have rules for separate votes and in this case, it is the same.
- you have a long experience of this house and you know that interventions relating to the conduct of votes are allowed, but not interventions of a political nature. there is certainly no question of reopening the debate, which you may do. before the vote on the draft legislative resolution:
- mrs. pack, could you clarify something, because neither the secretariat nor i understood. do you wish to postpone the final vote or refer the bill back to committee? they are two different things and we need to know that.
- so i think you want to postpone the final vote.
- mr president, i don't need to tell you how beautiful and vulnerable the west coast of scotland is. there is no doubt that this coast is particularly vulnerable and this week we have heard reports again of leaks from sellafield which will damage the galloway coast, the clyde estuary, argyle and beyond. it is vital that action such as the one proposed be taken as soon as possible and i was delighted to have the opportunity to vote in favour of it today.
- mr president, on behalf of the socialist group i would like to inform you that we were not able to vote in favour of the resolution on tampere in its final form. it is not that we lack sympathy with much of the content of the resolution, but rather that we feel that it contains certain things which are likely to overload the summit agenda and cause it to fail. the resolution contains several points which would be more appropriate to be dealt with at the next intergovernmental conference on the revision of the treaties. for these reasons we were not able to support the resolution in its final form as amended.
- that concludes the voting. (the sitting was suspended at 12.46 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
commission. - mr president, with your permission, i would like to make a statement from the commission on the effects of the financial crisis in russia and on certain aspects of corruption and money laundering. the house should know that the general financial situation in russia has stabilised somewhat since the dramatic fall in the ruble on the international currency markets in august last year. in fact, since the beginning of this year we have seen some encouraging signs, with the recovery of industrial production, mainly due to import substitution, a fairly tight control of inflation and a recovery in the balance of payments, which is mainly explained by a sharp increase in the export prices of russian oil. in addition, at the end of july, russia reached an agreement with the imf and other financial institutions on the resumption of direct borrowing assistance and shortly thereafter another agreement was reached within the paris club to reorganise debt service payments related to russia's public debt. further talks are under way within the london club between private sector creditors. the russian economy has thus had time to catch its breath in the run-up to the duma elections in december and the presidential elections next summer. however, none of these factors alone is sufficient to revive an economy that remains very fragile, with unemployment and poverty levels rising steadily. the authorities responsible must therefore redouble their efforts to encourage a sustainable recovery in the medium term. the adoption by the duma of the government's draft budget for the 2000 financial year will be an important test. in addition to serious structural problems, such as the lack of investment, public debt, especially external debt, is increasing rapidly and it is not clear at present how the authorities intend to deal with it in order to serve the interests of this debt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account. the commission is aware of the speculation in the media and of the growing concern about the misappropriation of funds from international aid to russia. of course we have to wait for the results of the investigations under way in europe and the united states and of course the commission is following the case closely. in the meantime, the imf, the world bank and the g7 countries being obviously the main donors of direct financial aid, it is primarily up to them to decide how to react to speculation and allegations of misappropriation of funds intended for aid to russia. of course, everyone should be aware that the russian authorities are responsible for the repayment of the aid, including principal and interest. in addition, the latest imf assistance will be absorbed entirely by debt service on the sums russia owes the imf. the operation will therefore consist mainly of a scripting game, without any real transfer of funds. the community's aid, as you know, is mainly provided through the tacis programme, which is managed centrally in brussels. the funds concerned are mainly used to finance european companies to provide russia with their technical know-how and advice. only a very small proportion of the funds is therefore directed to russia. in fact, it is only 4 million euros out of a total of 140 million euros. of course, this 4 million euros is directly managed by our representation in moscow. in addition, the community food aid programme for russia, launched earlier this year, is subject to very close monitoring which includes, among other things, checks on the use of funds generated by the sale of the foodstuffs concerned on local markets. in addition, russia is not currently receiving any loans from the community and the mandate of the european investment bank for loans to third countries does not extend to russia. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not diverted to the most vulnerable groups. there is also, in the commission's view, the problem of the massive outflow of capital from russia, which is certainly contributing to the low level of domestic investment and thus hindering growth. the commission has always made it clear to russia that a rapid and sustainable reversal of the capital flight trend requires a more favourable investment environment and better protection of investors' rights in russia. the commission has for some time now recognised the link between capital flight and corruption and crime in russia; we also recognize the cumulative threat that these various factors pose to the country's transition to a democratic system and a market economy governed by the rule of law. the house must know that institutional weaknesses and the fragility of efforts to consolidate the rule of law are very profitable for criminal activities. the commission has therefore been and will continue to be useful in supporting russia's difficult transition process through actions focused, in particular, on technical assistance in the fight against money laundering and organised crime, or the promotion of the rule of law in general. i will give the example of this study on russia's institutional and regulatory needs to combat money laundering, which is due to start later this year. in addition, cooperation between russian and commission officials in the field of customs and the fight against fraud is increasing. the house is only too well aware of the extreme skill of the major criminals in exploiting the differences between legal and regulatory provisions around the world and in infiltrating economic and financial systems, without regard to national borders. we are therefore faced with a global problem, which goes far beyond russia's borders. there is no doubt that closely coordinated international action is needed to combat it and the commission is prepared to play its full part in this. the fact remains that russia must do everything in its power to put its affairs in order. the commission therefore hopes that the russian authorities will respond convincingly to what is happening today; it is vital that they cooperate fully with the investigations under way in europe and the united states. the commission notes with satisfaction that the russian authorities have decided to send a high-level mission to the united states to assist the investigators on the ground; i think it's in the works. investigations into these allegations of fraud on russian territory should also be actively encouraged. the commission is, however, concerned that in russia itself the accusations have been denied only in the usual way, without being examined as they should be. in such a context, a timely gesture by president yeltsin to sign the money laundering bill would reassure the international community. the ratification and application of the council of europe convention on this subject is also essential. the commission also hopes that the problems of the russian banking system, which is clearly at the heart of the concerns about corruption, will be resolved quickly. confidence in the banking system must be restored quickly and permanently. this would be a major contribution to a return to a certain degree of normality.
- mr president, allow me to join mr swoboda in his remarks. i did not intend to intervene in this debate, but i listened to the commission's carefully prepared statement, for which i thank mr kinnock. it sums up a situation which i believe is very dangerous and which is developing in russia. what we need now is stability and new investment so that russia can grow, and the exact opposite is happening. in november last year i was in moscow with a group of representatives of this parliament who were sent to assess the humanitarian needs and it became clear that the country is simply not in a position to get its affairs in order. as the european union, we must take a political initiative to try to help the russians get their economy back on track. the countries of central and eastern europe that were part of the former soviet bloc have managed to recover. they have improved their economy and the living standards of their people, and that's because we have put property and property laws at the top of the agenda. this is not the case in russia and the difficulty in that country is, i think, that nobody has ownership responsibility for anything and therefore no real control over the economy. i hope therefore that we will be able to take some form of political initiative to try to get the country to revise its basic legislation.
- mr president, many of us are not too surprised by the reports of the time that the russian central bank has committed embezzlement. we have long known that the considerable sums paid to russia to support the level of the russian economy have not delivered the desired results and that while the top-down approach may have appeared to be the simplest, it may lose its effectiveness over time. we know that the gap between rich and poor has become a chasm, that the russian people have less and less faith in the ideal of democracy, that the infrastructure keeps deteriorating and that workers are not being paid. perhaps the west would have been better off paying teachers, doctors and miners directly. if we are to continue to invest in the russian economy, we must find ways of supporting and developing local economic activities - as our colleague has just said - which can meet the needs of the citizens and give a sense of stability and a form of participation. there are many examples of such actions in the areas of social exclusion, in the poorest countries, from which we can draw inspiration. money laundering and crime are only one aspect of the problem. we need to look at how to develop domestic investment. the example of the west is that you bring in foreigners who make the investments and reap the rewards. we may therefore do well in this house to reconsider certain issues, such as the question of returning profits to the countries where they are produced, instead of simply stripping them of money and natural resources.
- mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mr kinnock on his second term, which i am sure will be even more successful than the first. the problem we are facing is that while we should not underestimate the damage that crime and organised crime can do to western society, it is important, as far as russia is concerned, to try to look beyond the headlines. after all, to be frank, crime is a fairly common thing throughout russia's history. there's nothing new about it. we must not forget that russia is potentially an extremely rich country. it has huge natural resources, whether it be gold, oil or agricultural land, and yet production has fallen by 50% since 1989. the main problem is that of capital flight, legal or otherwise. all things considered, the money that remains in russia, even if it is on the black market, has an influence on the economy. capital flight now amounts to some us$25 billion a year, while foreign investment is less than us$3 billion and still declining. to be honest, if the russians themselves are not willing to invest in russia, what chance is there for someone else to do it? we must not lose sight of the fact that any contribution from our public money is a mere drop in the ocean. the key to russia's salvation is private investment. that is where we must concentrate our efforts. the answer lies in russia itself. the country must implement the necessary economic reforms. we must have a fair and sustainable taxation system. we must ensure that modern democratic legislation and respect for the law are in place. the industrialists have made it clear to us - for example, at the eu-russia industrialists' round table - that they want to invest in russia. after all, given the potential, there are some great deals to be made in russia by making the right investment at the right time. but they all tell us the same thing over and over again: it's corruption that's holding them back. the investment environment is deplorable, as there is no long-term viable tax system, constantly changing laws, insufficient infrastructure and, above all, unconvincing and confusing property rights, including intellectual property. these are the points on which we must concentrate our efforts. i recognize that in the current climate it is difficult to justify eu technical assistance, but we must continue given the importance russia has for us, both for security reasons and for economic reasons. i was glad to hear from commissioner kinnock. it is important to focus on a few aspects, that is to say, we must not only be interested in improving the economy, but also, of course, in improving civil society, to support economic reform, and in the social aspects. i would therefore ask the new commission - and i am taking advantage of the presence of commissioner kinnock to do so now - to make an overall assessment of the effectiveness of the tacis programme and then to report back to us on what it intends to do to improve the programme in the 2000 budget, so that we can have full confidence when we are called upon to vote in favour of the tacis programme.
- mr president, the earthquake which struck turkey in the early hours of 17 august is the most serious recorded in over fifty years in a region prone to such shocks. the disaster claimed at least 40 000 lives and at this tragic time we express our deepest sympathy and support to turkey. the european union has responded by providing some €45 million in emergency humanitarian aid, which has been added to the bilateral aid provided by several of our member states. we must insist on the rapid implementation of community aid. the immediate needs are material assistance, such as prefabricated housing, generators and special vehicles and equipment. the release of an additional tranche of eur 150 million in community aid requires the support of this house. given that the european union is a major donor of humanitarian aid, it would be most useful if the commission services, and echo in particular, were to explore in good time ways of improving the efficiency of disaster relief. in addition, the commission's joint research centre should look at how to improve the warning systems for seismic activity. however, we do not think that the creation of a new european research institute is justified at this stage. mr president, there is an encouraging sign in all this tragedy. the fact is that a little bit of the hostility between greece and turkey has also disappeared under the rubble in izmit. in a very positive and humane gesture, the greek relief teams were among the first to provide assistance to turkey, which was quick to respond shortly afterwards when athens was also hit by earthquakes. there have been many other small gestures of rapprochement between the greeks and the turks in recent weeks. many of us want progress to be made in resolving the various points which are hampering turkey's application for membership of the european union. this requires generosity and flexibility on the part of all parties. in the wake of the izmit tragedy, let us hope that relations between the european union and turkey will continue to improve.
- mr president, we all feel sympathy for turkey after the traumatic experience that this country has just had. however, we must try to make this trauma produce a kind of catharsis, so that civil society emerges stronger from the efforts it had to produce to cope with the consequences of the earthquake. the turkish government must feel much more responsible for the needs of its citizens and supporters of reform everywhere, such as mr selçuk, the president of the court of appeal, and his colleagues, must be able to be supported and encouraged. such a catharsis would certainly enable the european union to formulate a new approach to its relations with turkey and to develop a more positive collaboration in a spirit of genuine solidarity. greece must show its willingness to be a party to this project.
- mr president, the old dinosaurs of dictatorship that reign on the african subcontinent are dying and a new dawn is breaking for democracy. there is a country, however, where one of these dinosaurs has been at the head of a regime responsible for a great many human rights violations for the past 32 years. president eyadéma would be the first person i would bring before the new international criminal court. the situation in this country is very serious. we know that there were deaths at the time of the election. we know that every day human rights defenders are tortured in prison. we must call on the eu observer office to clarify all this, to get an agreement between eyadéma and the opposition parties to bring togo to democracy. we call on the council, which is due to meet, to ensure that the observer bureau is provided with the resources it needs to carry out this task. the european union should resume cooperation with togo only when it fully complies with the provisions of article 5 of the lomé convention. in the meantime, we need to help independent media and civil society to do everything possible for the people.
- madam president, my speech relates to a point i raised during the debate on tampere on tuesday. my colleague, mr camre, drew my attention to an error: the words i attributed to him did not correspond to what he wanted to say and the english translation, and i believe the french translation too, was exactly the opposite of what he wanted to say. maybe i was unfair in my criticism of him. i just wanted to point that out. it's done now.
- madam president, on the same subject. if you speak very close to the microphone, your speech is incomprehensible to most people. it's a clue to the flawed side of the system. we have exactly the same problem in the committee rooms. the distance of the speaker from the microphone is the issue. we need to hear the interpreters' translation. i think mrs seppänen is quite right.
- madam president, the building's functioning and its catering system have some quirks, such as the absence of coffee during the sessions, the impossibility of having white wine in the glass, the fact that the pizzas taste like cardboard and that the bookshop could not be further from the entrance than it is now. but these are problems we can solve. the design of the building is not exactly to my liking. it is clear that the designer must have had breughel's tower of babel in mind. but i must admit that you, mr priestley and the people of strasbourg have made a tremendous effort to deal with the situation. i agree with mr andrews that there are inevitably some initial problems, the most important being that of the lifts which seem to be running on their own. if you run very fast - which is not ideal for disabled people - you have a chance to arrive before someone already in the elevator slams the door in your face, because they are tired of stopping on every floor. however, the building is well worth the price. it is cheap compared to the london house of commons where nearly £1 million was spent on an office. my main complaint is not about the treatment of members but about the treatment of staff. it seems to me that the decision-makers have treated the staff, in some cases, in a rather mean way. the staff who are working with me at the moment in the committee have to put three people, three desks and three chairs, three telephones and three sets of documents in a room originally reserved for a member of parliament in the epi i or epi. this is not the best way for this institution to do its job properly and efficiently. the last point i would like to make is that most of us have taken to building when it is the politicians we should be blaming. this building exists because of the decisions taken at the edinburgh summit by mr major, who institutionalized our incessant wanderings between brussels and strasbourg - as beautiful as that city is - to the detriment of our effectiveness as an institution supposed to work on behalf of the citizens of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, while i welcome the improvements that have been made, i would like to raise a management issue: we would very much like to have recycling facilities given the mountain of paper used and thrown away every day. we would like to see some thought given to this question. several of the delegates called me because they were refused access to the public gallery, whereas there were still places available. we fully understand that the public comes first - it's also their building. but we would like our assistants to be allowed access if places are available: it is not always easy for them to be present in our offices when we receive visitors. finally, a secondary question which a colleague told me about when he had to leave early. could we have some water during the sessions? people find the atmosphere of the building to be dry, not only in political terms, but also in environmental terms, and we would really appreciate having water.
- madam president, i agree with mr ford that if we were only sitting in brussels, we would not be here debating the building we are in. this underlines the difficulty of managing two ships within the european union. nevertheless, this is the task which the council has given us and which we must carry out. so i would like to thank the services, and particularly mr. priestley, and all the staff for the tireless efforts they have put into keeping this building running. this week, it worked. despite some problems, our parliamentary business has not been hampered and we owe it to mr priestley and others. the building has significant design flaws, particularly in terms of access. from an architectural point of view, it is not a particularly welcoming building, especially for disabled people. this is a real challenge for all of us. overall, our resistance is largely due to fear of change. people don't like to be in an unfamiliar environment. it does not seem appropriate to devote an entire parliamentary session to our internal affairs. perhaps we should find a way of having a less formal, continuous dialogue with you, madam president, with mr priestley and his services on accessibility and other matters relating to the internal organisation of parliament. this session shows that the dialogue between ordinary parliamentarians and the administration may not be as effective as it could be. in conclusion, from this point of view, it is clear that we have problems as parliamentarians, and our staff too, but these are nothing compared to those of the citizens we represent. i hope we all keep that in mind.
- mr president, i am sorry that i did not have the opportunity to get the attention of the president. i wanted to ask him to negotiate with air france to make sure that the company does not, as i have heard, divert the flight to city airport over gatwick - well, if it works, because this week it was cancelled. i would also like to thank her for the attention she is willing to give to these matters personally. if we are doing the navel-gazing this morning and looking at our working conditions and those of our staff, it is not for our own comfort and convenience, but because we want to be elected representatives who work efficiently and who use taxpayers' money efficiently. strasbourg is a beautiful city. if i were a tourist, i would have no problem staying there every other week, it would be very pleasant. the building is overall beautiful and impressive, but in my opinion, grandiloquent. i agree with what has been said about waste and the need to recycle and save energy and i believe that this is an opportunity to put into practice what we advocate in the area of health, safety and energy. let me make three specific points. first, i regret losing a third of my workspace to a useless bathroom. i'd like to have mine removed and replaced with an extra desk. second, the ladies' room is constantly flooded. this is unfair to the cleaning staff who have to spend their time sweeping. as far as i can see, this is a problem of too high water pressure which is very easy to solve. could a plumber come down and lower the water pressure to prevent the water from overflowing the bowl and flooding the floor? finally, would it be possible to start the thursday sitting at 2 p.m. instead of 3 p.m. and to vote on the urgency at 4.30 p.m.? that would allow me to catch the 18-hour flight to city airport - if it still exists, of course. it would help a lot of people to be able to leave on thursday instead of friday. i am aware that these constant commutes cost, i think, about an extra €200 million a year and i am indignant to see that the european parliament is not able to decide on its place of work. we are wasting taxpayers' money and our efficiency as elected representatives is being undermined. i take my job seriously and i'm sure all my colleagues came here to work, not to treat this place like a club, but to play their role as elected representatives. i want to be able to go back to my constituents and tell them that i'm an effective representative.
- thank you, mrs ludford. let me assure you and all your colleagues that this morning's debate is recorded in writing. it will be submitted in the form of a list of proposals to the bureau, and mrs breyer, i do not know if she is still here, should also know that her speech has been recorded and will be the subject of a debate.
- mr. posselt, we're discussing the problems of this building, not the agenda of the session. can we please confine ourselves to the question raised? you've already talked for more than a minute. get to the point, please.
- mr president, i am one of those who would like to thank very sincerely mr priestley, the service staff and the administrative staff and you, mr president. there have been problems, but they have been handled with extreme delicacy and great courtesy. i would like to express my gratitude for this. when problems arise, they're resolved. as my colleagues have already done, i too would like to stress the extreme importance of the question of energy saving and to point out that it deserves to be the focus of our reflections. let me just mention two minor areas where there is some room for improvement. even though i only have six doctorates in five countries - most of them honorary, i have to admit - i find the instructions for using telephones and the manuals for setting up voice messages to be almost unintelligible. office supplies - staplers, paper clips and other small accessories of this kind - are very difficult to obtain. if the people who own the bookshop franchise could be encouraged to stock up on this kind of supplies which are essential to the efficiency of an office, it would help everyone.
- thank you, mrs van der laan. - i'm not sure i can do this. the secretary-general informs me that you will receive a written response to this specific question regarding the financial implications of the building.
- mr president, i will raise a few questions, but my main point is again tobacco. i have already put this question to the president and to the quaestors on several occasions. i was asked to put my question in writing, but i thought it might be interesting to raise it here as well. i have asthma, and i cannot come in contact with any cigarette without having serious respiratory problems. and i'm having a lot of trouble getting around in this building. the situation has improved somewhat since the last time. at least no one smokes in the hallways anymore. but it is impossible for me to enter or leave the chamber without coming into contact with cigarette smoke. so i can't do my job properly. i have to apply a handkerchief to my face and run to my desk. i've had severe asthma attacks in this building before, and i refuse to work under these conditions any longer. i would be very grateful if you would take concrete action in this respect and ensure that people can leave the chamber without coming into contact with cigarette smoke. restaurants normally have to provide a non-smoking room. this rule is not observed. in all restaurants, the non-smoking area is in the middle of the smoking area. so, to eat, i have to stand in line in the smoking area or have someone bring my lunch to my office. i would also like to see the emergency exits marked. yesterday, when the alarm went off, many of us didn't even know where the stairs were.
- let me just say i approve of all your remarks. the surveyors were instructed to look again at this issue in order to introduce stricter rules in the building. all members will receive a note on the issue of smoking and what is allowed in the building. i think we're making some progress.
- i understood that we might have a discussion with the council of europe to see if an arrangement is possible, but you must not forget that we no longer have access, from a technical point of view, to this building, because we no longer pay rent.
- thank you, mr van dam. i don't know where you were when you found out about this.
- thank you very much, sir. if you have trouble getting to the garage, think of me coming from the uk in a right-hand drive car, which is even worse.
- mr president, as a new member of parliament, i do not speak to criticise the architecture or the decoration of the building, although i certainly could. i agree with the members who find it horrifying, but this is a matter of taste. i would like to join the many comments that have already been made and say that i find it completely incomprehensible that we are holding this first session here in strasbourg when we have perfectly proper offices, meeting rooms and meeting rooms in brussels, and i find it equally absurd that the whole 'european circus' is being forced to move to strasbourg for three, maybe four days a month (sorry, five days this week). european taxpayers have read the headlines about this building and they must probably think we're crazy. the profound scepticism of the public should not surprise those who support the construction of europe. as to the cost, i would like mr. priestley to provide a written summary of the cost of this building. perhaps we could make some additional disclosures, although i feel that it would risk putting us in an even more awkward position with our constituents. my main demand is this: since we have changed the treaty to come here, there is nothing to prevent us from pressing our political parties, our governments to change the treaty the other way and get us to move away from here in order to finance useful projects that the taxpayers would appreciate.
- mr. callanan, this debate has been going on for years and it's come to nothing.
- mr president, for my first speech in this chamber, i had planned to talk about the issue of electronically linking elevator systems to make them more efficient, ventilation in bathrooms, air conditioning and vomit mats in cafeterias. but we are running out of time and i shall not dwell on these matters. i would like to reply to the first speaker of the day who asked whether any members of parliament had ever had more beautiful offices, who said that our offices here were so beautiful that we had never had more beautiful ones. well, the one i had before i resigned a year ago certainly was, and each of the parliamentarians here has a much better office in brussels. this is certainly the key element. the reason for all the teasing and complaints about this building is, as our colleague mr callanan has very rightly said, that we do not really want to come here but to stay in brussels. we must find a solution to this problem. a simple suggestion to improve the general atmosphere of this place, as long as we have to come. our chairman said a few minutes ago that the decoration of the building was going to be revised. this place is full of unused spaces and white walls that are extremely boring, unpleasant and inhuman. i believe that european art museums have far more paintings and works of art than they can display. their cellars and attics are full of paintings that they cannot exhibit because of lack of space. why not contact some of these museums and offer them our great white walls to display some of their paintings? i think it would make a great improvement on the ambiance of this building.
- i was assured that we'd have one badge by the end of the year, but your remark about the cleaning staff is correct. i understand they were asked to use the service elevators instead of the main elevators. but it seems the message has not been received. we're running out of time. before you all rush out, i should like to point out that the secretary-general has agreed, in view of the number of members still on the list of speakers, to deal with all letters to you in accordance with the explanatory vote procedure. your letters will be published in today's minutes, provided they reach us by the end of next week.
- mr president, allow me to express my thanks briefly and to raise four points quickly. my thanks go to the chairman, mr priestley and his team, and to the quaestors, for the way they have handled the problems we raised at the last meeting. there have been some noticeable improvements, including geographical indications which are very useful when we get lost. i now come to the four points: the first concerns air conditioning. mrs. lynne can't stand the smoky atmosphere. i can't stand the lack of air in some meeting rooms. i hope the manufacturers can solve this problem. if they did it in our offices, they can do it in our meeting rooms. secondly, when we leave the chamber, we are caught in a brawl. i would like the area outside the house to be considered as still part of the house, so that cameras, assistants, lobbyists and members of the public do not block our access to our offices. the rear area, including the access decks to the lifts, should also be considered as part of the chamber and closed to the public. thirdly, as far as lifts are concerned, i was blocked twice - just look at me and you'll understand. the first time, someone jumped in the elevator once or twice, and it started up again. the second time, someone stuck a small piece of plastic through a hole in the wall, restarting the elevator, but it could have disrupted the entire system. finally, i ask that we examine the wires and wires in our offices. it is a matter of health and safety at work. when i move my office chair to access my e-mail, i get caught in a jumble of cables. one of these days, there's gonna be a cloud of smoke, a loud thunder, and one of the members of congress is gonna be lit up like a christmas tree.
- i'm afraid we still have 20 people on the list of speakers, so you're not the only one concerned. the secretary general has agreed to receive your letters for publication at a later date.
- i'm sorry, but i have no control, in this kind of debate, over the speaking time of the speakers.
- i'll certainly pass that message on to the president. i thank all the colleagues who stayed this morning. the conference of presidents set the duration of this sitting, and we have exceeded that by far. it is very important to note for the future that this session went very well. perhaps more should be organised in the future.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0179/97).
- i would first like to congratulate my colleague james provan on the excellence he has shown in the conduct of this debate. this was the first debate i attended under his chairmanship and it proved to be an interesting and useful exercise in improving the conditions in our working environment. i would like to point out that, although i regret, as do many members, the number of people who carry weapons and luggage between the various seats of the european parliament, i am quite satisfied with the design of my office in strasbourg, and i will be even more satisfied if, as i was promised, a lockable storage cabinet is installed in it. unlike baroness ludford, i too appreciate the luxury of a private toilet, but i would like to stress the urgency of installing a powerful extractor in order to avoid any inconvenience that a visitor might encounter when using the facilities shortly after the member of parliament (by the way, this problem also exists in the toilets of brussels offices). i also regret the lack of monitors in the bar and restaurant, which would allow members taking a break to follow the debates in progress and to plan their entry into the chamber as best they can if they have to speak. is this absence of television screens to be interpreted as a deliberate policy to ensure that members remain in the chamber rather than hanging out in bars watching the debates on screen? finally, i do not like the bold patterns and colours of certain carpets in bars, which, as one member has pointed out, are more reminiscent of a cheap nightclub than of the dignity that can be achieved in this house. i am also afraid that the magnificent cream carpets in some of the committee rooms will be irreversibly stained and soiled within three months and rendered unusable. this is a poor choice of colour, not practical and ultimately a waste.
the "call to speak" system doesn't seem to be working. i indicated my request by pressing a button on the console but i was not registered on the list of speakers. as a result of the races, i had to make up my mind to wave my arm. 2. elevators - keyboard these elevators still do not seem to be functioning properly. call buttons for the four lifts: two buttons are required to call an elevator. the programming should be improved. the elevators are slow to arrive. they stop on floors for no apparent reason, they get overloaded and they get stuck. the outside glass of the building is dirty. the concrete pillars are also covered with various kinds of dirt. 3. elevators - glass near the house (access to the press, radio and television rooms) several are out of service. they're very slow to arrive. they're too easily overloaded. the programming should be improved. 4. dining room of the ipe iv the service is extremely slow (perhaps due to the distance between the dining room and the kitchen or the lack of service staff). the food is less attractive than in the dining room of the ipe i (in particular, no buffet). the room lacks a seal (the layout and decoration should be improved). 5. quiet rest areas outside the chamber we need more tables and chairs. 6.bars must be accessible quickly and without congestion. what are we doing? 8.flights to strasbourg from scotlandflights via brussels - overbooking flights via paris - lost luggage, connecting times too short. flights through london city - flights cancelled. flights through london heathrow - no scheduled flights.
- madam president, in accordance with rule 111 of parliament's rules of procedure, i am proposing an amendment to the agenda for this part-session to include a statement by the commission on the french government's refusal to lift the beef embargo and its decision to prohibit the passage of british beef through its territory, which is a vital route to spain and italy. i would like the statement to be followed by a short debate in accordance with rule 37. the commission has recognised that british beef is safe. scientific studies have proven that british beef is safe. the french government, to my knowledge, has not put forward any studies to the contrary. the united kingdom has put in place strict safeguards, but one state - france - does not comply with the commission's decision. if this situation is not stopped, it will damage the internal market, the credibility of the commission and also the british farmers. the ebs has already cost the uk £1.5 billion in exports. british farmers have been patient since the negotiations began two and a half to three years ago. they obeyed the rules. they even slaughtered animals that showed no signs of ebs. the embargo on beef has finally been lifted and they are now facing a new offensive against their industry. we must make a statement and have a debate as soon as possible. i hope we can find the time.
- if i understand correctly, madam president, there is one speaker in favour of this proposal and another, who has just taken his seat, who suggests that a debate on this subject be held at the end of this month, during the second part-session in october. will you put both proposals to the vote ?
- madam president, i am asking for information on a procedural matter. i do not know whether it is appropriate to make an explanation of vote at this stage of the debate, but if so, i would like to say that i think it is a real pity for the people of scotland that we are debating food security tomorrow without including the issue of a member state's breach of a community decision. that is why i voted for this proposal.
- madam president, it is entirely appropriate that the issue which, in retrospect, has done so much to tarnish the reputation of the last two commissions, should be the subject of the opening debate for this new commission. i welcome the statements made by president prodi today. the citizens of europe have the right to know what they are eating, where and how the food has been produced and they have the right to be served food that is clearly marked and labelled. it is obvious that everyone feels that this is the way to proceed with products from other countries. however, our own products must also meet these criteria. when i asked the commission representatives in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy a few months ago for details on the illegal recycling of sewage sludge in animal feed, which is suspected in some member states, no one was able to define what sewage sludge was, under what circumstances it was used and for what reasons it was used. two different directorates-general were represented - the then dg xxiv and dg vi. the representatives looked at each other. i would like mr byrne to tell us today, in the light of this little example, whether he was at the root of the problem. this is not a practice of which no one knew the dangers before. these are disgusting practices. we need to know why and how this happened. i hope mr byrne, when he answers the questions, will be able to tell us. what we need is to be able to act quickly when the law is not being respected. in the dioxin scandal, for example, what we need is not so much a rush to ban a whole series of products - hvrs, etc. - as the possibility of discovering whether they are new pollutants or simply products that have been polluted. if we can determine this, we are on the way to improved surveillance of all the products themselves. the establishment of a food agency, which some people doubt, is as credible and necessary as an environmental agency, which some people also doubted when it was created. it would be a reference for all member states and could serve as an incentive and support for those of them whose precautionary legislation is lacking. as for countries which are currently setting high standards, such as my own country, i think this agency would reinforce the idea that we are all working towards the same goal and that we are all on an equal footing. unfortunately, in areas where we have only a rudimentary common policy, implemented through the scientific committees and the new veterinary office in dublin, some member states are still falling behind. in my country we have been constantly introducing methods to ensure maximum safety in beef production, and rightly so, after the bse scandal. this led to the lifting of the ban on beef imports in august this year, but apparently not in france. i would like to ask mr byrne how he proposes to apply community decisions based on scientific advice - as was the case with the lifting of the ban on beef - when they are ignored by a member state. it is unacceptable that security issues should be reduced to national policy issues which are dependent on the will of the member states. i would like to know how the white paper will ensure consistent safety standards, proper labelling and precautionary advice. we want these measures to be implemented within the three-year target period set by the white paper itself. it would be disastrous if we were to stick to the policy of punishments and reproaches when we could all be moving towards common european standards. it would be absolutely ridiculous for us to go to the next round of wto negotiations unable to establish ourselves clear standards which form the basis of the precautionary principle. if so, we will only be left to exchange insults that are the result of self-interest and ignorance. europe can certainly do better than that.
- thank you, mr president, i have followed the debate with great interest. i have listened with interest to what mr prodi has said in the past about how we can find a solution to the food security crisis we have experienced in europe. i immediately think of a conclusion which i did not hear from mr prodi, namely the application and strengthening of existing legislation. forget about creating new agencies, forget about new regulations; why do you not consider more seriously the application and strengthening of existing legislation? if that had been done, we would not have had the dioxin crisis in belgium. mr prodi must think about it and make proposals before christmas. the food agency is the central element of the solutions proposed by mr prodi. we must remember, mr prodi, that when this parliament considered the problem of the establishment of a food agency in the past, we were not entirely sure that we were on the right track. however, we are prepared to consider that possibility, as are you. but i have to tell you that we're going to have to ask you some extremely difficult questions before we can judge whether or not you're headed in the right direction. the first question is: do you propose the establishment of a food and drugs agency or a food safety agency? the second question is: to what extent will you delegate the powers of the commission to this new agency and perhaps to the agencies already in place, so that they can do their job better and help the agency to solve the food problems in europe? how will you ensure the accountability of these new agencies? will you take account of the hearings here in parliament when choosing the directors of these agencies? there are many questions we would like you to address, mr prodi. we'd like to hear from you today. we certainly want these questions to be included in your white paper. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that there is already confusion in the minds of members as to who in the commission is responsible for crucial elements of these problems. mr byrne is responsible for some things and mrs wallström for others, particularly with regard to gmos. you must solve these problems within the commission before you take any steps to set up a food agency. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, in recent years food safety issues have rightly dominated the topics of concern in this house and in the member states. i welcome the statement and the debate today and i believe that it is a recognition of the continuing need for action. it is right that public bodies and politicians, whether they are local authorities or governments, should play a role in controlling food production and processing. the european commission and members of parliament must do everything in their power to ensure that consumers everywhere in europe can have confidence in the food they buy. the bse crisis is one case where strict export conditions have been applied at european level, in this case to british beef. these conditions were met, resulting in the lifting of the ban, which had major effects on agriculture and related industries. this was a long-awaited sign and brought some relief to our hard-pressed farmers. is it acceptable, then, that individual member states decide to maintain the ban without producing or publishing a clear justification in terms of food safety, given that the responsible eu body has considered it appropriate to lift the ban? the decision by the french government is a particularly cruel blow to scottish cattle farmers whose herds feed mainly on grass and have not been fundamentally affected by bse.
- mr president, i tried to get a statement from the commission yesterday on france's refusal to lift the ban on beef imports. unfortunately, the proposal to change the agenda was rejected. it is urgent to know what action the commission is taking against the french government. british farmers are currently experiencing a crisis which has caused £1.5 billion worth of lost exports. the commission's scientists say they are satisfied. so why do the french ignore the regulations? they have no new scientific evidence. the bse crisis broke out because the previous government reacted too late. he turned a blind eye to the problems. the cows should never have been fed with the remains of other cows. however, this problem has not only arisen in the united kingdom. britain is on high alert now. since 1996, no bse cases have been detected in the target age group - 6 to 30 months. other countries cannot say the same. they don't have to follow the same rules. it's time the same rules applied to everyone. the uk has unrivalled hygiene standards and the ban must be lifted everywhere in the eu, including in france.
- mr president, i thank the commissioner for his statement. commissioner, in 1998 530 000 children were infected with the aids virus in sub-saharan africa. the contrast is striking with the 1,000 children infected for the whole of western europe and north america in the same year. so we have to ask ourselves: why such a difference ? why are there such stark contrasts that reflect the scale of poverty that people in africa experience, as well as the lack of health care, education, and aids treatment? it is certain, as others have said, that neglecting africa has very serious economic consequences. it also involves the suffering and death of productive elements of these societies. it is extremely important to note that women are being excluded from the world of work in order to care for their loved ones and that family and community resources are being allocated to health care, instead of being allocated to savings, not to mention, and i am sure you are aware of this, the countless funerals you witness if you walk the streets of a country like zimbabwe. it is time to invest in programmes that more effectively target the health needs of africans. it is certainly ironic, as we mentioned in the committee on development yesterday, that the committee on budgets voted last week to cut the budget line for reproductive health care and hiv/aids by half, from 25 million to 12 million euros, and that today we are debating the need to invest in this area. in rich countries, antiretroviral therapies are prolonging the lives of a significant number of patients. however, i must say that the tens of millions of people in the poorest countries of the world will never be able to afford these therapies or will never have access to them. i welcome the fact that the european commission is increasingly stressing the importance of the distribution of funds to support the development of an aids vaccine. the british minister for development - i am sure you are aware of this - announced just last week that very large sums of money would be invested in research to develop such a vaccine. early clinical trials will begin in the united kingdom in january 2000 and subsequently in nairobi. in countries like zimbabwe, where 20 percent of the population is hiv positive, vaccines are, in my view, the only hope. in the short term, however, women are the key to progress. teenage girls in sub-saharan africa are six times more likely to be infected than boys of the same age. a recent study in kenya shows that 25 percent of girls aged 15 to 19 are hiv-positive compared with 4 percent of boys. ignorance, fear and shame literally silence women. gugu dlalimi announced during a protest in johannesburg last december that she was hiv positive. a week later, she was beaten to death by neighbors who said she had brought shame on their community. this kind of situation, mr president, is a disgrace to us all. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would also like to raise a question, namely the relationship between drugs and the problem we are discussing. we care about africa, but we should also care about what is happening around us, within our own societies. northern ireland is on the periphery of the union, it is a part of the periphery of the union. however, we are witnessing the beginning of a terrible epidemic in our country, which is highly linked to drug trafficking. whether this parliament likes it or not, when laws are flouted, the sad consequences are always reaped. the bible says that he who sows to his flesh will leave corruption in the flesh. that's a fact we have to face. however, we must show infinite compassion to those who are afflicted with illness. i am glad that my church has a program and is working hard on it. we have to show compassion. we need to put ourselves in the place of such ones, accept the circumstances in which they are placed, and do all we can to help them through their painful trials. it is tragic that this parliament should be sitting in the shadow of the committee on budgets, which is cutting aid. we should do everything in our power to raise more funds to solve this problem.
- mr president, i also congratulate mr lange who has shown real interest and enthusiasm in presenting his report and amendments, continuing the work of his predecessor, mr robles piquer. i'm very happy to see our new commissioner, mrs. de palacio. i am delighted to be working with her and we hope that she will soon share, if she has not already, our enthusiasm for renewable energy. with the save and altener ii programmes, we can show europeans that there are rational ways to meet the challenges of climate change: energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. we call on the member states to fulfil their commitments to promote renewable energy - and all of them declare, each on their own, that they are committed to this - by signing a charter on renewable energy - the eurenew charter. it would symbolize the added value of working together within the eu on the wishes and needs of society. the environmental benefits of renewable energy are obvious. mr langen, however, aptly reminds us of the enormous potential of european industry. we need only take denmark as an example. and i fully support the call made by mr langen to strengthen the european council for the export of renewable energies. unfortunately, we have suddenly lost one of our driving forces this year, john bonda, but others will continue his work on the export council. i am very pleased that the altener ii programme contains a vocational training element. you have to salute him. it is clear that the appropriations are not sufficient and must be increased if we are to make this programme effective. i hope that the council will be able to give a signal in due course so that amendments can be made during the first reading of the 2000 budget. it is very important to emphasize the dissemination of information in the context of the altener ii programme and i look forward to consulting, if it is already available, the agores centre on the worldwide web, a site clearly intended to collect a whole range of information on renewable energies so that everyone can consult it and keep it up to date. in addition to the altener programme and the renewable energy research carried out under the fifth framework programme, which we hope will be far-reaching, we need urgent accompanying measures, such as the directive on access to the electricity market. i hope the commission will tell us sooner. the white paper has raised hopes and we are delighted to launch the campaign, with its million photovoltaic systems, its large wind farms, its biomass and, above all, its 100 communities in which all the electricity consumed will come from renewable energy. there is no place in the european union where the use of renewable energy is not relevant, whether in lapland or the greek islands. the altener ii programme will and can work in all the member states and, of course, outside the european union, in the candidate countries for example, and in the mediterranean countries, where there is enormous potential. renewable energy must become a symbol of the rational and progressive character of europe. this program will help us acquire that symbol.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr langen, on his report on the adoption of the multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the community, altener ii. some have expressed criticism of the nuclear programme in the community. from a technical point of view, fusion may be a renewable energy source, but that is not the point here. this report is based on a commission proposal from november 1997 which the outgoing parliament considered at first reading of the robles piquer report in february. now, thanks to the amsterdam treaty, we have moved to the codecision process and we are now proceeding to the second reading. the main initiative in this report is the demand for a doubling of the share of renewable energy sources to 12% by the year 2010. the socialist group clearly supports this initiative but i am not entirely convinced that the commitments will be accompanied either by political means - that is one of the reasons why we are asking for the campaign to encourage the use of renewable energy - or, more importantly, by financial resources. in my view, the appropriations allocated are far too limited and will not be enough to achieve a doubling. we have an allocation of €80 million: €30 million for 1998-99 and €50 million for 2000-02. it seems to me, firstly, that the sums available are very insufficient and, secondly, if we expect a doubling of renewable energy sources, the sums available for a certain period should be greatly increased. in fact, these appropriations may not even be committed, since amendment no 5 to article 1 (3) (new) states that these amounts could be reduced if they are not in line with the financial perspective for this period. i welcome amendment no 6, article 2 (e) (a) (new) on the need to promote the export of renewable energy technologies from the european union and to promote the european council for the export of renewable energy. in conclusion, i would like to briefly address a few points: the principle of renewable energy is not part of the thinking of energy suppliers who are trained to consider that energy must be produced on a large scale and that each project involves costs amounting to hundreds of millions or billions of euros. many of these projects will be characterised by their small size, the fact that they will be community-based and site-specific and will exploit wind energy, tidal power, a combination of heat and electricity or even biomass. this means that if we want to encourage a large number of small projects, we will need even more money. secondly, if we are serious about exporting, we should also give importance to renewable energy sources for which we have a technological lead in the european union, which is not necessarily the case here. i see one: the conversion of ocean heat energy, which takes advantage of the temperature difference between the cold deep waters of the tropics and the warmer surface. we have a lead in europe but we are not encouraging it. if we want to export these technologies, we have to make these resources available.
- let me congratulate mrs ahern on taking up with such enthusiasm the work started by mrs bloch von blottnitz. energy efficiency is one of the few contributions to the achievement of the eu's kyoto targets. by saving energy, we will produce less co2 and other pollutants. we will also make our companies more competitive. we will be able to create thousands of jobs, which we greatly need, and the gas and electricity suppliers will be able to make money in a more rational way by selling the services that energy provides us - well-heated homes, efficient refrigerators and machines that work - rather than selling ever-increasing amounts of gas and electricity. households must be the main target of the actions. they use more energy than industry, and they do it in a costly way. this is why many of the measures in save ii are aimed at households - better home design, more economical appliances and effective education programmes. unlike mr van velzen, i fully support the amendment tabled by the rapporteur to increase the savings rate by 1.5% compared with the level that would have been achieved in any event. we need only look at the progress made in some member states, including the netherlands, to see that this is a percentage which can be achieved. i believe that the use of regional and local networks, such as federene, energy cities and islenet, is one of the most effective ways of bringing about change and i hope that these networks will be encouraged under save ii, as they were in save i. of course it is important that we carry out checks and that the achievements of this programme are quantified. our committee will soon set up a mechanism to ensure that expenditure under the programmes is monitored closely. the save ii programme could serve as an example of how funding, such as the structural funds and funding for third countries, can be used in other eu programmes. once again, the budget is insufficient. this programme alone is not enough either. i hope, commissioner, that you will remain true to the philosophy behind the rational planning directive. so far you have done that, and i am pleased, and we look forward to your next communication on energy efficiency. it is very positive to begin the work of this new parliament with programmes which can make a difference, both for the environment and for the competitiveness needs of our member states. like altener, save ii is one of these programmes.
the rapporteur. - mr president, last saturday i had the privilege of attending the opening ceremony of the rugby world cup in cardiff, the capital of wales, where i come from, and wales won! all around the rugby field, advertisements for fruit companies and south african airlines could be seen. we had the pleasure of listening to south african singers and at that time i thought how far back the dark days of apartheid were when many of us, myself included and perhaps one or the other commissioner, demanded that a boycott and sanctions be applied against apartheid in south africa. today, institutionalized racism and legalized bigotry and prejudice have been swept away. the recognition of these considerable achievements now determines the relations between the european union and south africa. however, mr president, i think we all have to admit that we have spent five years in long and tortuous negotiations on all kinds of products: apples, pears, asparagus, cut flowers, fish, wine, port and sherry, but finally an agreement is in sight and we hope to sign it this monday in south africa. i would like the commission to confirm that it has signed this agreement. the european parliament and the joint assembly have played a positive role and offered encouragement and critical analysis. it is right that this parliament should be the first to give its assent to this agreement. some of the member states of the union have quickly forgotten the commitments they made to nelson mandela in berlin in 1994. on several occasions it has been difficult to understand why some member states have shown a lack of generosity and understanding. south africa's gdp is half that of belgium and only 0.6% of world gdp. yet the negotiations were repeatedly delayed because member states were prioritising sectoral interests over the need to support south africa. as philip stevens, a journalist for the financial times, has noted, during the uk presidency the european side has been manoeuvring from one end to the other in a twisted, destructive and, above all, shamefully protectionist spirit, seeking from the outset to hold south africa hostage for the benefit of its own subsidised farmers. let me now summarise the main points: the asymmetrical nature of the trade agreement is crucial and implies the systematic reduction of customs barriers and other duties. europe will open its markets to 95% of south african exports within ten years. south africa will open its markets to 86% of european exports in 12 years. this agreement is unique in that it includes the agricultural sector which, of course, is of enormous importance to the south african economy. it also recognises the potential damage that subsidised agricultural products can inflict on south african markets and in fact allows south africa to impose a special safeguard clause if it appears that its agricultural industry is threatened. however, i see the protectionism that unfortunately characterizes the union's common agricultural policy reflected in the agreement. i also believe that this agreement should not be seen as a model, particularly for the acp countries currently participating in the new post-lome agreements. i would like the commission to confirm that this is not its position. but there are clear lessons to be learned about the extreme complexity of such a project, especially when the powerful eu is your partner in extremely bitter and controversial discussions. this agreement must now be translated into practical benefits. in conclusion, let me address the regional implications of this agreement. i think these are the things we fear most. there will naturally be a reduction in customs revenue on which botswana, lesotho, namibia and swaziland have become dependent. these rights can be as high as 90% in the case of lesotho. this will, of course, affect the country's ability to spend on essential health and education and other social sectors. there will be adjustment costs. we still do not know, madam commissioner, how these costs will be borne and the lesotho conference which the commission has promised to hold seems to be vague as well. i met with delegations from the blns countries asking me exactly what our position is on this conference. my interest in south africa goes back 30 years. this interest is still alive because the issues at stake today are just as important as those we discussed thirty years ago. president mbeki knows that south africans have a limit to their patience and he also knows that a black and impoverished south africa is desperately waiting for change to come. president mbeki made the following statement at his inauguration: our nights cannot be haunted by nightmares while millions of people live in abject poverty. we cannot rest at night when millions of people are unemployed and forced to beg and steal to ensure that they and their families do not starve to death. our country, south africa, is about to embark on a long journey. this parliament should give its assent to this agreement so that the european union can play its part in this crucial journey. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i am pleased to support this initiative on behalf of the greens/european free alliance group in parliament. we thank mrs kinnock for her work. alliances between states and, more recently, between regions, both within and outside the european union, are an initiative that we can be proud to develop with enthusiasm. funding projects such as interreg or phare clearly reflect this philosophy. we cannot expect this initiative to solve the problems of economic deprivation in the new south africa overnight. it has to tackle acute domestic problems such as social integration, the chronic problem of poor housing for the majority of the population, mass unemployment and an economy whose share of world gdp is only 0.46%. most south africans fear that our initiatives will take too long to bear fruit. we must ensure that all support projects can be implemented much more rapidly than is the case today. the ten-year period stipulated in the agreement, at the end of which europe will open its markets to 95% of south african exports, with customs duties on 86% of south african industrial products being removed, is a long period for a country with such acute economic and social problems. the reduction in customs duties is a good thing. however, we must consider that the reductions granted to exports from third world countries to developed countries are four times as large as the duties we face when exporting to these countries. interregional relations with south africa, a country of regions, should be promoted. the role that the historical regions and nations of the eu can play in building economic and cultural links with the various regions of south africa is crucial and should be a key prerequisite for the future prospects envisaged by this country, such as debt elimination. in this respect, the decision taken at this year's world economic summit in cologne to write off $100 billion of third world debt is important and should act as a catalyst for all eu countries and not just a few of them. the financial partnership is not the panacea that will solve south africa's problems in a comprehensive way. a whole range of crucial issues now need to be explored globally to ensure that south africa is able to maximise the opportunities offered by this agreement. the eu should seek to develop strategies and training programmes to ensure that the regeneration of the south african economy is sustainable in the long term, both economically and environmentally. i support this initiative.
- mr president, the first thing i would like to say is how much i welcome the hopefully successful conclusion of this landmark agreement and i congratulate the rapporteur for working hard to get the best possible result. this free trade agreement is one of the first to be concluded with a developing country and therefore sets a number of important precedents. for example, the agreement does not just focus on trade aspects but extends the field to development cooperation, which i welcome. however, it could set other precedents with less positive repercussions, especially with regard to the impact on other countries in the region. one of the main fears of the countries belonging to the sacu (southern african customs union) is the loss of customs duties, as mrs kinnock mentioned. at present, these countries are heavily dependent on customs duties levied on imports from europe and distributed among the countries of the customs union. this is a very large sum of money. i take swaziland, for example, where 40% of government revenue is dependent on customs duties. however, because of the existence of the free trade agreement, goods from the eu entering the south african market duty-free will also enter duty-free into the other countries of the customs union - there is no customs barrier between these countries. so the sacu countries are really concerned that these products will be sold cheaper than local products within their own markets. while this makes products cheaper for south africans, the effects on local industries can be extremely painful. therefore, there is a strong concern that the pace and scale of removal of customs duties on imports from the eu will exceed the capacity of the region's industries to improve their efficiency. this underlines the importance of properly establishing the successive phases of free trade agreements, in order to avoid negative repercussions on other countries in the region. although compensation for adjustment costs in south africa has been promised for neighbouring countries, how this compensation will be applied is far from clear. the european parliament, i am sure, will continue to monitor the situation, assess the impacts felt by other countries and do everything in its power to ensure that appropriate and necessary compensation is available. the agreement also has wider implications for the post-lome negotiations, in which the commission and the council strongly support regional free trade agreements to replace the lomé-type preferential arrangements. i welcome the recommendations made by mrs kinnock not to regard this agreement as a model for the acp countries. in conclusion, while i welcome the fact that south africa has acquired a significant share of european markets, i hope that we can learn from this agreement and ensure that in the future the phasing out and objectives of these free trade agreements more accurately reflect the diverse needs of the participating countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. it seems that today is the case. it is an honour and a privilege that this remarkable event is the subject of the agreement with south africa, which i am responsible for today in the commission. next week i will be going to south africa for the third time this year. my first visit was to celebrate the years of solidarity struggle. the talk i gave in the prisoners' mess hall on robben island was a good experience. the second time, i represented my country at the inauguration of president mbeki. today i look forward to participating in the signing and launching of this agreement in pretoria next monday. i would like to thank parliament, and in particular the rapporteur for the committee on development and cooperation, mrs kinnock, for the rapid and smooth preparation of parliament's assent to the results of the negotiations we have conducted with south africa and for the active and committed support it has given to this process over the years. we will sign the agreement in pretoria next week. in recent days, some in the eu member states have suggested that this happy occasion may be marred by the fact that parallel negotiations with south africa on a wine and spirits agreement have run into last-minute difficulties. without mentioning the inappropriateness of this kind of suggestion, i would like to stress the fact that both parties are working hard to find a quick and acceptable solution to the outstanding problems concerning the wine and spirits issue. in fact, negotiators from both sides will meet again this thursday in brussels to conclude the discussions on wines and spirits. i am convinced that they will be successful. i would like to answer mr souchet and other members who have asked what the consequences would be if an agreement on wines and spirits were not reached. this problem was addressed in july and clarified in an internal statement drawn up by the commission. neither the special financial support - eur 15 million - granted to the south african wine sector, nor the 32 million litre quota for duty-free wines should be applied as long as the agreement on wines and spirits is not operational. we have warned the south africans of this and we could make this explicit in the exchange of letters that will be signed concerning the provisional application of the trade agreement. the trade, development and cooperation agreement which will be signed on 11 october is, in my view, excellent. it is a vibrant symbol of the eu's political commitment to the new post-apartheid south africa. south africa's courageous move towards a trade, development and cooperation agreement with the eu symbolises its commitment to economic restructuring and re-establishing its place in the international community. this partnership agreement is one of the most ambitious the eu has ever concluded with a third country. it confirms the eu's clear commitment to supporting the process of change and reform in south africa and reflects the desire of both sides to expand political, trade and cooperation contacts for the benefit of south africa and indeed southern africa as a whole. the agreement will open up new prospects for cooperation between the eu and south africa in many areas. in the specific context of development cooperation, i sincerely hope that the agreement will contribute to the eradication of poverty and the growth of prosperity in south africa, while respecting democratic principles and fundamental human rights. the report by mrs kinnock gives us an excellent and very precise description of the potential and objectives of the agreement. however, on certain points - and forgive me if i make a few technical remarks - it seems that she takes her wishes for granted. let me give you a few examples. contrary to what is stated in the report on page 8, the regional safeguard clause does not apply to the whole of the sadc region but only to the blns country which is part of the southern african customs union. since these countries will in practice apply the same customs duties as south africa, it is appropriate to propose the same type of safeguard clause to them but this mechanism does not extend to the sadc region as a whole. the eu has not yet agreed to eliminate customs duties on automotive products from south africa over a three-year period, as the report on page 9 seems to suggest. this option was linked to south africa's efforts in this area, which will be assessed in the second half of 2000. if the south african side proposes a significant opening of markets to the eu, we will be able to eliminate our customs duties completely by the year 2003. otherwise, the eu's liberalisation of the automotive sector will be a long way off. contrary to what is suggested in the report on page 10, the proper management of public affairs is not, in strict legal terms, an essential element of the agreement. this was not part of our mandate as negotiators. however, the agreement states that both parties reaffirm their commitment to the principles of good governance and makes this concept an essential element. however, apart from a few such inaccuracies, the report, as i have already said, is very precise and very well written. i obviously share his positive conclusions. this brings me back to the challenge we still have to face - how we will implement this agreement as quickly and as well as possible. given its mixed nature, we are waiting for the ratification of the agreement by the 15 national parliaments. i hope that the excellent precedent set this week will inspire your colleagues at national level and encourage them to put the agreement on the agenda quickly. however, experience with other agreements has shown that it may be two or three years before the last eu member state ratifies the agreement. in this context, i welcome the fact that the council has decided to apply certain parts of the agreement provisionally, in particular the sections relating to trade and development, as from 1 january 2000. in the coming weeks and months, i will closely monitor the preparation process leading up to that date to ensure that the very important trade concessions granted by the eu to south africa are actually implemented on the agreed date. as for the other aspects of cooperation, much is already in place from a legal point of view - development cooperation, lomé, science and technology. however, on many other aspects, i am convinced that the agreement can guide our ambitions and efforts immediately, even if, from a legal point of view, the agreement is not yet fully operational. pending the formal ratification process and guided by the agreed text of this agreement, i am personally committed to ensuring that existing and future areas of cooperation between the eu and south africa will be strengthened and deepened in a timely and effective manner.
- mr president, i thank the commission for its reply, but i did raise the question of the elements of the support package for the blns countries and the promise that a conference on this subject would be held in lesotho. these countries are still awaiting a confirmation signal and have been informed by the commission that it will take place before the signing of the agreement. it is clear that this will not happen, but we need to reassure them because these countries feel that the commission is forgetting them in this area.
commission - (it) madam president, at the moment i have no commitment for next week to discuss enlargement, we have no agreement on this point. i thought commissioner verheugen would be present, but i am certainly available. this is a very serious and important procedural matter. for our information system to work properly over the next five years, i think we must clearly define the times when the president and the individual commissioners must be present and when a written communication is sufficient. otherwise, our relationship would weaken and become trivial. the best we can do is to establish these rules in a small committee. one thing is clear: the president of the commission is always available when his presence is important or necessary, otherwise the level of debate is reduced. of course, if less important things are asked, then it is right that the debate should be brought back to these things. i think we have three levels: the president, the commissioners responsible for the various subjects, and the routine which must be carried out as quickly and transparently as possible - the internet or written communications - because it is not worth debating. we must maintain direct communication when we come to debate. that is my view and in that context, in any situation where important problems arise, i shall of course be glad to be at the disposal of parliament.
- thank you, mr prodi. given my accent, i'm sure you won't be surprised by my question. in britain we have complied with the ban on beef. the ban has been lifted and now unilateral action by one member state is endangering the spirit of the european union project, particularly in britain. in my area of the west midlands, some farmers have very little left to live on. may i ask you to act quickly and to exert pressure to put an end to this unilateral ban imposed by the french. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (it) mr bonde, within the limits of time, this is already the case, in the sense that an agenda is certainly not kept secret. the problem is that the commission's work is very fast-paced and we cannot say, ten days before the commission meeting, what exactly the agenda will be. however, as regards the major themes that are being discussed, those that can be prepared in advance, we have already committed ourselves to providing the framework for our future work. i made that commitment a short while ago in my statement, the commitment to provide the framework for our future work until the end of the year, so that we can work together on the big issues. secondly, the agenda is sometimes changed at the last minute and this is no secret, but it is difficult to inform you of these changes when we ourselves are informed only a few minutes before the start of the meeting because urgent facts have occurred.
- madam president, mr prodi touched on the competitiveness of european industry in his opening remarks. he said that this was one of his priorities and that structural changes were needed in european industry. i would point out to him that many economists believe that the most important factor in favour of the competitiveness of firms would be above all the reduction of corporate taxes and payroll taxes. secondly, the enormous and intolerable burden of regulations which place europe at a great disadvantage compared with other parts of the world must be reduced. we have a european employment programme based on four pillars. none of these pillars will have a significant impact on short-term unemployment. the solutions to unemployment are exactly the same as those to lack of competitiveness, namely, lower taxes on wages and lower levels of regulation. what is the commission's position on these points?
commission - my answer is that you are aware that the precautionary principle applies where there is no scientific evidence or where the evidence available is of an uncertain nature. that's not the case here. the report i have mentioned, which was published by the scientific committee on veterinary measures in relation to public health in april of this year, specifically noted the presence of residues of one of the six hormones under investigation - namely 17 beta-estradion. this particular hormone was identified in 80% of the tests performed. this hormone - as the committee has described it - is clearly carcinogenic. in this context, we believe that lifting the ban at this stage would be premature. similarly, as i said earlier on the application of the precautionary principle, it seems to me that it would be inappropriate to apply that principle given that we have clear evidence from the report drawn up by the scientific committee on veterinary measures in relation to public health. this question will have to be resolved in the negotiations we are conducting with the wto. the united states was represented on the committee that conducted the reviews. this fact will have to be brought to the attention of the american negotiators. this is an important issue which will have to be raised in the negotiations between the united states and the european union. i hope that this issue will be addressed amicably and without any feeling of confrontation during the wto negotiation period.
- i would first like to welcome the commissioner's reply but also to take it a little further. the commissioner said that, with regard to beef, free trade was important but that consumer health came before free trade. can he guarantee that he will take the same position in seattle? when we look at the wto negotiations, it often appears that consumer health and other areas are subordinated to the principle of free trade. both of these are important, but health is a crucial issue.
commission. - i understand the honourable member's questions, because he is himself a great information professional, so he knows what works and what does not work. if we want to operate in the various member states, we must respect national prerogatives in letter and spirit. we have tried in the past, during the election campaigns, between the commission and parliament, to campaign together. the commission cannot, of course, give a political view, but it can give the view of informing the citizen. i think that in the future, in order to reach the general public most effectively, the commission and parliament should join forces to inform the public about what is happening in europe. i would not like this information to be propaganda information, but i really want it to be balanced, to answer the questions of the citizens. i know it's well said, and quick said, and very difficult to do. but you will see in the new organization chart of my directorate-general that there is a citizen service, which really wants to be at the service of the citizen and which wants to answer all questions, to serve all requests from the citizens using, as mrs cederschiöld has asked, modern technological means, but also using the paper medium where nothing else is possible. if we can, in cooperation with the member states and parliament, take advantage of television, we will certainly do so, but we cannot force access where it is considered unwanted.
- annex ii, the procedure for question time provided for in rule 43 (b) (3), states that the time allocated should not exceed 30 seconds. i was wronged because my question is number 36. this is a crucial issue for the people of my constituency. i think we should stick to the schedule. it's not fair! it was the first time i was going to speak in this house and i lost the opportunity to do so.
commission - (de) mr president, i was very moved by your speech. for me, and after my long experience as a member of the european parliament, the importance of information policy is not only for the 'upper echelons' but also for the very young, the children, who absorb information like sponges and use it throughout their lives. i will certainly try to ensure that programmes, cultural programmes and information programmes are not only aimed at secondary schools and universities but that collaboration between schools is encouraged from primary school onwards. to do this, one really does not need to undertake long trips because they are very expensive and few can afford them. but with the internet, many classrooms in different countries can be connected to each other. it is an idea which is close to my heart and which i shall be very happy to repeat.
- i have heard the commission's statements on the europe by satellite service. is the commissioner satisfied with the level of information provided to local and regional television stations across europe about their rights to access the services provided by europe via satellite? is it technically easy to access? i found that this was not the case in the south of england. can the commissioner guarantee that she will ensure that local television stations have easy access to the europe by satellite server?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, these are not limited to the very close economic, commercial and historical ties which bind us to india. they go beyond that. our relationships are based on shared values. a few days ago, india held free and fair elections with a turnout larger than that of north america and the european union combined. india is the world's largest democracy and has faced terrible problems, precisely because it is a free country that obeys the principles of the rule of law, including a fully developed civil society. i recognize the need to develop these relationships. india's relations with the other countries of the asacr, its regional body, should be encouraged. i will certainly discuss the proposal put forward by the honourable member with my indian colleague and with the governments of the member states. however, i do not agree with you when you say that the only way to demonstrate the importance of a relationship is to hold summits. sometimes there is a danger that they will turn into ceremonial gatherings. what we really need - i won't go so far as to say beef - is more muscular relationships and a lot more substance. i'm determined to do it.
- if we continue to inject hormones into our cattle, they will also be much more muscular. i would like to point out to the commissioner that, while i welcome the question and the answer he has given - and i share his view that giving too much importance to the organisation of summits is not necessarily a healthy attitude - i would like to know whether he does not intend to extend the india-eu dialogue to an eu-indian dialogue? this is the useful role that the eu should play, namely to bring together the indians, pakistanis and bengalis in this subcontinent to discuss their common problems and, in a way, to act as an external and impartial mediator in the relations between these countries in this region.
the commission is right to raise this important question. as the house is aware, one of my top priorities is to continue the recent improvements in the management of the european union's external aid programmes. in this context, i would like to mention the significant personal contribution of philippe soubestre, director general of the scr. we have a huge responsibility towards developing countries to ensure that the aid provided by the european union is used effectively and in a timely manner. this is of crucial importance for the credibility of our policies and for the eu's international image. the honourable member is aware that the commission services have recently made significant progress in eliminating accumulated delays in payments for external aid contracts. most valid invoices are in the process of being paid within the normal 6,000-day -- sorry, 60 days. this applies in particular to the approximately 5 000 projects under way in association with ngos, financed either from the budget or through an edf authorization procedure. it is an unfortunate but inevitable fact that we never have as much money as we would like. this is particularly true of development aid, for which there are never enough resources. this means, for example, that we receive requests for additional support for cofinancing projects in association with ngos reaching twice the budget available for 1999. this may give the impression of delay but in reality it is an inevitable consequence of the pressure on limited funding resources. in conclusion, i would draw the honourable member's attention to the recent changes in the requests made to ngos for bank guarantees, which should make it easier to obtain advance payments of up to eur 1 million.
- i could name a number of ngos and other organizations that have actually waited 6,000 days and are still waiting. i take the example of the ngos responsible for the elimination of anti-personnel mines and the article 19 association - which the commissioner knows from britain - which have had to deal with problems of lost documents and absolute chaos. is the commissioner aware of the enormous tensions between the external dgs and the csr because of the confusion about the division of tasks, the staffing difficulties of dg viii, for example, difficulties due to the fact that the staff of that dg has been moved to the csr? your answer ignores the underlying tensions. the answer you gave somewhat ignores the crisis situation within the scr. in addition, the relex dgs are being reorganised, which creates an even more chaotic situation for the essential work we are engaged in with non-eu countries.
commission - (en) until now, member states have, on the basis of article 296 (former article 223), excluded the arms trade from the scope of the ec treaty regulations. the community has therefore been unable to take action in this area. the question of the arms trade is currently being dealt with in the context of the common foreign and security policy, in which the commission is, of course, fully involved. the new commission will have to consider whether to amend article 296 during the next intergovernmental conference, taking into account the agenda of the conference, as well as progress on a new arms export policy. following the adoption of the joint action, the commission took part in a series of troika initiatives, with a view to presenting the joint action to all governments and the most important regional organisations and to winning their political support. a number of specific projects are currently under way. the european union is contributing eur 500 000 to the undp pilot project, arms against development, in the gramsh district of albania, which, if successful, could be extended to other districts. a fact-finding mission to cambodia made a series of recommendations for practical cooperation on the basis of the joint action. other projects are currently being examined by the council.
- i thank the commissioner for his answer. i consider the commission's review to be positive and i encourage the commissioner to support it. we know that two billion dollars are still spent every day on the military and on arms sales, 40% of which are in europe. so we all need to be more efficient and put a stop to this trade. i congratulate the commission on its action in implementing the joint action on small arms, namely the project in albania. i would ask the commissioner to put the project in cambodia into effect as soon as possible. i would also ask him to put in place other projects which i know the commissioner and his services are considering in a former soviet republic and in a country in southern africa. i hope that the discussion now taking place in the council will enable us to help curb the arms trade and to free up more resources for development.
commission the honourable member is aware of the commission's traditional position on arms sales. perhaps he has read the very interesting article recently written by simon jenkins and published in the times on arms sales which contains, i think, extremely important and valuable arguments. as the honourable member knows, we have had discussions with the united states and canada and i very much hope that we will continue the progress made through the specific projects, as you have suggested.
- i believe, from the answer he gave us, that the commissioner is in favour of regulation of the sale of arms. what is his position on the ongoing arms deal? recently, arms from russia have been transported through antwerp to eritrea, where war is raging. does he agree that there should be stricter regulations to ensure that this type of arms trafficking does not take place?
- madam president, thank you for giving me the floor. i would like to draw your attention and that of parliament to the terrible railway tragedy which took place yesterday outside paddington station in london when two trains collided. the death toll currently stands at 26 but is expected to rise - perhaps double - and many people have been seriously injured. i therefore ask you, madam president, to write on behalf of the european parliament to the british prime minister to convey our shock and horror at the scale of this terrible disaster and to ask him to convey our deepest sympathy to the families of those who died and to the families of those who were seriously injured, and to wish them a full recovery from their injuries. in light of this terrible rail disaster, i'd appreciate it if you'd do that.
- madam president, the central question seems to be whether this parliament and the european union are sufficiently confident in themselves to confirm that turkey has the status of candidate. failure to do so would cause a major crisis in our relations with turkey. no one wants special treatment for turkey and no one should ignore the many problems relating to the treatment of the kurds and the situation in cyprus. my group believes that candidate status will lead turkey to prepare more seriously for membership, to engage in more sustained dialogue and to be more exposed to european culture and politics. parliament has certainly been slow on this issue, as the meda programme and the financial support for the european strategy show. the liberal and green groups tabled an amendment calling for a clear prospect of accession. this would encourage progressive and reformist forces in turkey and increase the influence of the european union on turkey's future development. this position is supported by the cypriot and greek governments and parliament would be reactionary if it failed to take the lead in this area. i call on all those who want turkey to modernise on the basis of its european traditions to support our amendment.
- as a member of the european parliament representing the london constituency, i am happy to represent many turks, turkish cypriots and kurds. this leads me to insist that the main obstacle to turkey's accession is not prejudice or discrimination of any kind. the eu is not a christian club. culturally, europe is enriched by the presence of muslim citizens and residents, and i am pleased about that. the main obstacle to turkey's accession is its failure to meet the criteria set out in copenhagen, particularly with regard to democracy, human rights and the rights of minorities, and in particular of the kurdish people. and it would be condescending and insulting to treat turkey differently from the other candidates, as if to suggest that it is a second-class country and incapable of aspiring to european political standards. the main cancer that is eating away at the turkish system is the repression of the kurdish people. it has distorted the turkish state and justified its militarization. hundreds of thousands of people died and millions were forced from their homes. the pkk has committed some atrocities but they have been far exceeded by those perpetrated by the turkish army. the response to the pkk ceasefire is not sufficient. our mistake is to see turkey more as a strategic military ally than as a political partner. we must intensify our relationship and contribute to constructive change, but we must not say right now that turkey is about to join us. that is why i cannot support amendment no 1 tabled by my group.
- mr president, historically speaking, the european union is a baby. as a child, she questioned britain's eligibility within her and rejected her application for membership. at that time many observers thought that greece or spain - i suppose that is all forgotten now - could never become members. in the last ten years we have seen tremendous changes. the union has expanded to 15 members, parliament is beginning to acquire political power and will soon, i hope, cease to be a mere chat room. turkey's candidacy must be judged on the basis of the following criteria: turkey's geostrategic and economic position and its impact on europe; turkey's crucial role as a member of nato and how to ensure the viability of this membership if it continues to be shut out all the time; and the fact that turkey, as a responsible future member of the eu, could be the fire extinguisher in the fires of discontent that are ravaging the middle east and beyond. i understand the fears of those who are concerned about the turkish muslim population. in fact, there are large numbers of turks in germany and france and large numbers of muslims - including turkish cypriots - in england. the populations of kosovo and albania are predominantly muslim. turkey's religious complexity is the result of a historical accident, like that of spain, which was under moorish rule for a few centuries. the turkish culture is clearly european and its religious complexity should not devalue its european identity. let us look beyond the next ten, fifteen or twenty-five years and consider what is in the best interests of europe: what will contribute to the prosperity and peace of this family we call 'europe' today? let us not be hypocrites and ask ourselves on what intellectual grounds we can exclude turkey. young europeans, who are socially mobile and much less religious than we are, expect us to develop a europe that offers work opportunities and prosperity for all to enjoy. turkey cannot join europe at the moment; but geography, culture, history, security and common sense... (the president withdraws the speaker)
- mr president, i must confess that when i hear phrases about an invaded and swallowed europe, i am filled with complete horror at the quality of the debate in this parliament. however, i have been somewhat perplexed by this debate and would therefore like to ask mr sasi and commissioner verheugen a question. what is the difference between what is going to happen in helsinki and what happened in luxembourg? in luxembourg we confirmed turkey's eligibility to join the european union. i understand that we are discussing the possible confirmation of turkey's candidate status in helsinki. however, whenever i ask commissioner van den broek whether turkey is a candidate country, he tells me that the commission considers turkey to be a candidate country. so what's new in helsinki? it is obvious that all the candidate countries must meet the copenhagen criteria and turkey is of course no exception. none of the candidate countries currently meet the copenhagen criteria; if they were, they would by definition be part of the european union. so what's the difference with turkey? meeting the copenhagen criteria is not a static process but a dynamic one. we are working with the candidate countries to help them meet the copenhagen criteria. the human rights problems in latvia and slovakia would never have been addressed without the positive prospect of eu membership and turkey should be treated in the same way. we must be actively involved in order to improve the implementation of the european strategy. we must bring turkish legislation into line with the acquis and we must work with turkey to build a civil society. we cannot do this without doing what we have done with the countries of central and eastern europe and without being prepared to spend the money we have promised: that is the crucial factor.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i thank the members for their valuable comments. i would like to stress that in politics we must be able to take advantage of situations in which we can advance peace, stability and human rights. that opportunity is now open to us. the kosovo crisis has shown in concrete terms how important it is that we build cooperation and peace in europe. this can only be done if we show our commitment to european structures and we know that turkey plays a significant role in advancing the stability of south-east europe. the other important point to consider is the earthquakes in both turkey and greece. they created a climate of goodwill among the greek and turkish peoples and thus laid the foundations for a political rapprochement between the two countries. instead of distance, we therefore have the possibility of better cooperation. i am personally convinced that rapprochement will also promote real progress in turkey. i believe that the result will be that turkey will see the need to improve human rights, democracy and political conditions. i believe that this will also provide an opportunity to make progress on the cyprus question, because turkey has an undeniable say in this matter and its contribution will be necessary if progress is to be made. in his speech, commissioner verheugen referred to the possible accession status of turkey. in this respect, it is clear that we still have a lot of work to do before the helsinki summit in order to achieve such a result. we have work to do in the european union, but it is also important that throughout this process turkey gives positive signals that progress is being made in the right direction and that democracy and human rights in turkey are being strengthened. the copenhagen criteria have been mentioned here. on this point, it should be noted that the copenhagen criteria are a condition for the start of negotiations. we're currently discussing candidate status. if this candidate status can be confirmed, the copenhagen criteria will be a significant pathway or route for progress in turkey, and they will help to steer the evolution in the right direction, towards the values we represent here. i would also like to stress once again the importance of turkey for the stability of the whole surrounding region. i am convinced that if the islamic countries see that turkey's new path towards western values brings it better economic potential and better opportunities for political action, this will also be an important example for the islamic countries around it and in this way it will be able to stabilise development in the regions bordering europe. i very much appreciate the motion for a resolution that has been tabled here, and i would like to say that i am particularly pleased that parliament is promising to act with diligence on matters relating to turkey. i would once again call on parliament to examine the regulations on financing as soon as possible.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. let me answer some of the questions that have been asked. firstly, it is not a question of offering turkey a prospect of membership of the european union today, next week or in helsinki. turkey has had this prospect for decades. this has been confirmed to him on several occasions, most recently in luxembourg in 1997. turkey is already part of the process of enlargement of the european union. that is why i am the one responsible for turkey in the commission and no one else. it is part of the enlargement process. what we're talking about today is just a tactical change. the decision taken in luxembourg was, at the time of the negotiations, to choose a different form of rapprochement for turkey than for the other candidates. this decision proved to be impracticable as turkey considered it discriminatory. if anyone asks me whether we will ever see turkey become a member of the european union, i will say that i have no idea. if anyone asks me whether we will ever start accession negotiations with turkey, i will also say that i do not know. but we shall never see it if we do not now try to put turkey on a path which will perhaps allow it, if it so wishes, to enter into accession negotiations with us. candidate status does not imply the start of negotiations, although we are looking at what needs to be done to meet the copenhagen criteria. all the members of this house have said that they want a democratic turkey, a turkey which respects the rights of minorities, a turkey which protects human rights, a turkey which contributes to peace and stability in the whole region. all the speakers expressed their wish for this. so can anyone tell me how we can further this process other than by talking to turkey? the decision i want to see taken in helsinki would mean that we could start a very serious dialogue with turkey, start the legal review and tell turkey precisely what needs to change. then, and only then, when these changes have taken place, can we talk about negotiations. i can assure you that no one will come here and say that we want to start accession negotiations with turkey now even though the political criteria of copenhagen are not clearly met. this means that changes will have to be made in turkey in terms of democracy and the rule of law before we can start negotiations. this is so that what is being discussed here is really clear. for years turkey has been the subject of the arguments which i have heard again today in this house and which i could sum up in the phrase 'not this way and not now'. the moment of truth has now come! we cannot continue to cling to this "not this way and not now". anyone who does not accept that the time has come to give a clear and sincere response to turkey runs the risk of putting everything we expect of turkey out of reach and of seeing a completely different development for which we will have to bear responsibility, namely the responsibility of seeing turkey take a very different path from that which leads to the family of european democracies. if that's what you want, you have to be willing to take responsibility for it. a final word on the cultural aspect. i do not deny that there are cultural differences between the predominantly christian part of europe on the one hand and the muslim part of europe and turkey on the other. i'm not denying it. but if you look for a moment at how the world is evolving in our time, the answer to cultural differences can only be that cultures need to be isolated from each other. on the contrary, the answer can only be found in mutual cultural openness. cooperation between europe and turkey could be an encouraging and hopeful example of how neighbouring cultures that choose to coexist can find a common path towards peace, democracy, the rule of law and opportunities for prosperity for their members. i would ask the european parliament to give us the opportunity to have a credible discussion with turkey, to make a credible contribution to the changes in turkey. to do this, we must actually meet the obligations we have made to turkey, including financial obligations. (applause) i would like to thank
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the middle east peace process, followed by a debate.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to speak to you today about the current state of the middle east peace process and the role of the european union in this process. it was a pleasure to hear, after several years of silence, positive news on the progress of the peace process. compared to last spring, a lot has changed. six months ago we were in a situation where the implementation of the wye river agreements signed in october 1998 had failed. due to internal political pressure, the israeli government was unable to implement the agreements and the country held early parliamentary elections. the expiry on 4 may of this year of the transitional phase provided for in the oslo agreements has made the situation even more uncertain. the palestinians had announced that they would unilaterally proclaim the birth of an independent palestinian state on that day. at the same time, israel was in the midst of a heated election campaign, and the elements were gathering to make the situation worse. the general atmosphere was one of disappointment and uncertainty. there was also concern that terrorist attacks would increase. today the situation is very different. the outcome of the parliamentary elections and the election of the prime minister in israel in may was the turning point that allowed the resumption of negotiations to resolve the conflict. the new israeli government has convinced the international community that it is serious about peace with its neighbours. certainly, there is still a degree of uncertainty about political developments in the middle east. the difference with the end of last year or last spring is that there are reasons for optimism now. we have evidence of stronger political will, of the ability to conduct direct negotiations and of the timely implementation of signed agreements. i know that the european parliament is closely following the development of the middle east peace process and that there is a lot of competence in this house on issues concerning the region, as demonstrated by the study published in may by parliament on the middle east peace process. i'll focus on the evolution since last spring. it was then, as you know, that parliament delivered its last resolution on the matter. as the country holding the presidency of the european union, finland has logically considered the middle east peace process as one of the most important issues of the common foreign and security policy. we are closely following the peace process and are in close contact with the parties. the finnish minister for foreign affairs visited the region from 1 to 5 august. the president of the republic of finland, mr martti ahtisaari, is currently on a visit to the region, covering israel, the palestinian territories, syria and lebanon. in addition, we found the extensive network of contacts established by special envoy mr moratinos and his expertise in the matter to be of great value. its work has been extremely valuable in terms of obtaining information for the european union, the visibility of the union and contacts for negotiation. the european union has made a significant contribution to the developments of the past few months. we have always encouraged the parties to discuss and negotiate. we have also tried to create the conditions for a climate of opinion favourable to the peace process and we have worked towards détente. a good example of this is the declaration of the berlin european council, which in my view played a significant role in reducing the tension of the spring. the european union has been called on many occasions to be more active in the middle east peace process. and it is true that we are in an excellent position to exert our influence. europe has a millennia-old link with the middle east across the mediterranean and a unique expertise in the affairs of the region. we are not seeking to compete with the us or other players in terms of leverage, but rather to engage in a close dialogue with them. the short-term prospects for the palestinian issue seem to be that the parties will discuss directly with each other, without the significant involvement of other actors. there is a broad consensus among the member states of the european union on the fundamental issues and objectives of the middle east peace process. this consensus has been consolidated over the past decade, making it possible to strengthen the union's role in the region. we are already the largest supplier of aid to the palestinians, which translates into a significant contribution at political level, for example in the meeting of the ad hoc liaison committee which coordinates aid to the palestinians, which will be held in tokyo in mid-october. economic cooperation and the contribution of technical experts in certain permanent negotiation issues and in the field of good administration are areas in which we have been able to provide assistance and are also prepared to act in the future. in addition, the european union attaches great importance to cooperation projects between citizens which bring people together in a concrete way. this cooperation continued in secret even during the years when the peace process was suspended. the current political phase of the peace process can be considered to have resumed thanks to the agreements signed last month in sharm el sheikh. the international community supports the agreement signed by the parties. the implementation of the sharm el-sheikh agreement has been well under way, with israel and the palestinians both scrupulously fulfilling their obligations. the implementation of the agreements through tangible measures is the best way to rebuild the deteriorated trust between the parties. the agreement restores confidence that the principles of oslo have not been forgotten. i think faith and trust will be necessary. the parties have deliberately delayed the resolution of the most difficult and sensitive issues. the one-year deadline set by the parties for the conclusion of a permanent agreement is ambitious. but by taking determined action, by building mutual trust in a systematic way and by adopting a proper attitude, this can be achieved. the european union stands ready to provide assistance with the means at its disposal if the parties so desire. as far as syria is concerned, there is still a real possibility for negotiations and thereby for peace, because both sides want it. it just seems like one of us is waiting for the other to make the first move. we must seize the opportunity, and that is why we are prepared to offer our best services to the parties. i am convinced that the start of negotiations is only a matter of time. the lebanese question seems to have been somewhat sidelined in the rapidly evolving public interest over the past few weeks. from the point of view of lebanon's favourable development, it would be essential to establish more stable conditions in the country. we want the political solution to the lebanese question to move forward at a rapid pace and we are ready to provide our assistance in this area as well, as far as our needs are concerned. i have so far considered the work of peace mainly from a political point of view. the european union plays the most important role in the search for peace, but at the same time, in order to increase confidence and above all to consolidate the peace achieved, economic cooperation and regional cooperation are also important and they will have to be carried out at several levels. this cooperation has not yet succeeded in meeting the expectations set for it as an activity supporting the peace process, but i am convinced that it has every chance of succeeding. this is evidenced by the european union's cooperation with the mediterranean countries in the barcelona process and the activity for the continuation of the mena series of meetings next spring. a just, comprehensive and lasting peace will bring not only changes in regional cooperation but also pressures for internal change within countries themselves. we would like to see the parties prepare the people of their countries for the compromises which the concorde will inevitably force both sides to make. now is no time for harsh words. we firmly believe that change can only be beneficial in the middle east if the fruits of change are harvested. finland, as the current president of the european union, fully understands the possibility of a profound change and will continue, in collaboration with our partners, to pursue peace and the common interest by all available means.
- i am particularly pleased to give the floor to commissioner patten. i think this is your first major intervention in this chamber on behalf of the commission. welcome to the commission. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, this motion for a resolution welcomes the good news, the success of the negotiations in sharm el sheikh and the agreement on the crossing points for palestinian goods, vehicles and nationals. but physically, this passage is only a narrow corridor through which freedom of movement, a central tenet of the philosophy of the european union, is surrounded by many necessary security restrictions. hopefully, as trust is built, these will be gradually alleviated. free trade also requires fair prices so that the producer and seller can realize the profit to which they are entitled and honest labelling indicating the origin and production methods of the products in order to satisfy the customer's requirements in terms of health and choice. these two essential elements of free trade have been partially or totally absent from palestinian exports, particularly in the textile and agricultural products sector. and conflict was also on the agenda. this motion for a resolution calls for an end to all trade barriers. only then can the three close neighbours, israel, palestine and jordan, build a genuine prosperity for their people. yes, there are risks involved, but the gamble is worth it. i recommend this resolution to parliament.
- the very disappointing turnout in this year's european elections has brought clear evidence, if need be, of the need to improve the visibility and legitimacy of this parliament vis-à-vis the people of europe. i think that two proposals on the calendar gave us the opportunity to improve both our working methods and our contact with the citizens. the proposal to reduce the strasbourg sessions to four days would have meant that meps could have been present longer in their constituencies, meeting groups, individuals and organisations and getting the message out about our activities in strasbourg and brussels. as for the proposal to hold a mini-session in brussels on wednesdays when, of course, meps are already in place for group or committee meetings, it would have allowed the president of the commission to come to parliament to report on the weekly commission meeting, thus showing citizens the commission's accountability to parliament and raising our profile by announcing major commission initiatives within this institution. i regret that both these proposals were rejected today but i am confident that colleagues will come forward with similar proposals at a later date.
- i would like to explain why, despite the liberal group's reservations about this resolution and its ambiguity, we have finally decided to support it. the resolution at least clarifies our position on our relations with our great neighbour and if parliament had not spoken on this important subject it would have failed in its responsibility as an international parliament and deplorably signalled the vitality of the policy called 'fortress europe' and the exaggerated support for it within this house.
- that concludes the explanations of vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- mr president, on behalf of the eldr group, i would like to express our strong support for the efforts of the european commission and the council to convince our international partners of the merits of an extended round of negotiations within the wto, covering a wide range of issues. if the right trade-offs are to be found between the diverse and complex issues facing the international trading system today, it seems essential that the discussions cover a comprehensive agenda, ranging from traditional tariff reductions to crucial issues such as environmental and labour standards, and new topics such as competition and investment. you can count on the robust support of broad sections of this parliament when it comes to entering into discussions with those who might wish to confine this cycle to a limited series of trade compromises in specific sectors. i also welcome the openness shown by mr lamy in entering into a working relationship with this new parliament and i am pleased that he is supporting the changes to be made to the treaty at the next intergovernmental conference in order to strengthen the role of the european parliament in the common commercial policy. it would be to the benefit of the union as a whole if the commission and parliament could be more in touch in international trade negotiations. however, if the european parliament is to play a new and more responsible role, it must have greater access to information on trade issues than it does at present. new responsibilities should come with new rights. i would therefore like to put two specific questions to the council. firstly, the commission has already stated that it has no objection to the inclusion in the conclusions to be adopted in seattle of the european parliament's role in the conduct and conclusion of the new wto round. could mr sasi confirm that the presidency will be in line with this new language? secondly, can mr sasi confirm that the presidency will put forward new proposals to provide the european parliament with documents discussed in committee 133 of the council as far as possible, accompanied if necessary by special procedures to ensure confidentiality? since mr sasi has kindly agreed to attend the meeting of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy of the european parliament on 12 october, i suggest that he submit his formal reply to these two points during that meeting. if we can make progress on these two points, i think the responsibility and legitimacy of the negotiating position adopted by the european union during the millennium cycle will be considerably strengthened.
- i would like to contribute to this debate with three remarks of a general, specific and political nature. first, a general point to be made. we should be in favour of this round of negotiations from the outset, we should adopt a positive attitude to ensure that we avoid protectionism, promote free trade and extend prosperity to other parts of the world. it's a pity that mr. pasqua left. he said there was no debate in this house but i would refer him to the economic performance of britain and the united states, two countries achieving high growth rates, low unemployment rates and low interest rates in a global trading system. the french economy and those of certain continental countries could benefit from this specific experience. i would also like to say, in general terms, that the commission's communication has indeed set out four major principles for the cycle's agenda and that my group fully supports them. we support the need for a comprehensive cycle because if it is as broad as possible, we will eventually be able to make progress. as regards the specific point, i would like to make a comment on agriculture. it is quite clear that this will be one of the most sensitive areas to be examined in terms of export subsidies, the vital need to maintain rural areas but also food security. these are three of the main issues to be addressed in the cycle. perhaps the commission and the us administration should present a sort of green paper, commissioner, pointing out the differences and converging interests between europe and america, because as you have learned from your previous role, we will never reach a conclusion unless america and europe agree on the broad lines in a negotiating round such as this. so an informal document of this nature might be useful to seattle. finally, on the political note, a number of networks and non-governmental organisations are now in favour of world trade and would like to play a responsible role in these negotiations. other groups, far less responsible and more militant in nature, will probably be present in seattle. that is why if we want consumer, social and labour issues to be on our agenda, we must ensure that these networks do not replace the agenda. i think we must send a large delegation from this parliament to seattle - at least as large as the american congress - to make sure that we can defend the views of this parliament there and negotiate on the tariff issues as well as on other issues. these are legislative problems; so the legislators have to be there. i therefore agree with my colleagues who said that we must ensure a strong parliamentary presence in seattle. the three institutions of the european union must cooperate and it would be very interesting to hear the views of the council and the commission on the need for a strong parliamentary presence during these negotiations.
mr president, the advantage or disadvantage of speaking late in the debate is that most of what i was going to say has already been said, and i shall therefore merely stress three general points. first, we must resist pressure from any source to impose a restricted debate. it takes a wide-ranging debate, extensive negotiations to get a package that satisfies everyone. secondly, throughout these discussions, we will be the focus of attention. the time for negotiating technical matters behind closed doors is definitely over. citizens are paying attention, ngos are paying attention, businesses are paying attention to environmental concerns, health, animal welfare. i am therefore delighted that the commission is organising a meeting with ngos tomorrow in brussels. that's very good news. third, many speakers mentioned the need for a balanced approach. we need to get a balanced package. it is not just about trade, it is about international justice and social justice, it is about environmental problems. but we cannot forget, as some in this house would like, the issues of job creation and prosperity. they also matter to public opinion. getting that balanced package will be difficult but that's what public opinion expects from us and that's what democratic and accountable governance is all about. we have to do this. finally, i am pleased to hear the commission and the council mention the needs of the developing countries. it is very important that we give them more than warm words at the beginning of the new millennium. hopefully, in the next century, we'll see something other than the stories of africa's backwardness in terms of economic development.
- mr president, in today's financial times the unctad secretary-general repeated that the multilateral trading system remains biased towards developing countries. in these discussions we must be quite clear that the developing countries do not expect an ambitious programme in this round of negotiations. they are demanding that the commitments made in the uruguay round be respected. they have not seen the benefits for their textile and clothing industries, for example, nor have they seen the benefits of trade liberalization in agricultural products. the first thing they want to note is the positive effects that could result from the uruguay round. the developing world is getting ready for seattle and they're getting ready to be very busy. they argue that market access alone will not be the panacea for achieving competitiveness and integration into the global economy. we must admit that all these fine objectives will require us to support supply in developing countries for the simple reason that they will not have the capacity to meet these fine objectives. it is also necessary to eliminate agricultural export subsidies and to develop a new wto clause to cover food security needs in developing countries. similarly, as many speakers have pointed out, a social clause should be managed in conjunction with the ilo to ensure that certain sensitivities that we all know are taken into account. finally, commissioner, i would ask you, when your deliberations touch on the rules of the wto, to bear in mind the considerable duties and responsibilities which we have under the lomé convention.
- i think that our deliberations today have been very much focused on the essential areas of the environment and agriculture and the social clause but i would like to draw your attention to the specific needs of the cultural industries and the audiovisual sector. in looking at these areas, it is particularly important to look at the problems we are facing in these sectors: for example, the growth rate, currently 13% in the eu, which raises the problem of capacity and the conclusion of negotiated rules. there's also the question of their complexity. let us take the convergence in telecommunications, audio and information technology, for example, which seems to me to raise fundamental questions about how we produce and consume in these sectors. but in these areas much will depend on the degree of detail that emerges from the negotiations themselves. i would like to take advantage of the commissioner's presence in this chamber to propose - in the light of the exceptions we already have in the european union in the audiovisual sector, which give us a margin of manoeuvre, the possibility of evolving with the sector and the opportunity to make a gesture in order to establish a fair context vis-à-vis the united states - that in establishing the infrastructure for the negotiations we should provide for sufficient flexibility to meet our needs in europe. at the same time, i recognise that we need a negotiating forum that is both robust and realistic. as regards our position in europe, i would therefore say that we must ensure that our companies can move forward in a way that is conducive to realising the potential they undoubtedly possess.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this opportunity to present to parliament the council's activities and my views on climate policy. climate policy is one of the biggest challenges facing the environment globally and i believe it will remain so for the next century. climate change will have immense social and economic impacts. of course, they'll be bigger the longer we let the climate change. one thing that people are only now discovering is the likely health effects of climate change. many researchers believe that the increasing number of storms and floods are a symptom of a changing climate. of course, these storms and floods have a direct impact on people's health. but even more significant are the indirect effects of climate change that are due to changes in ecosystems. in many regions, for example, hotter, drier summers are expected to reduce cereal crops. it is also expected that as a result of global warming, many vector-borne diseases, such as those transmitted by insects and rats, will spread. for example, malaria is expected to spread to southern parts of europe and the united states. in total, this can also result in health effects, a new gap between rich and poor, a health gap. this is just one example of the dramatic effects that climate change can bring. that is why tackling climate change, or at least slowing it down, is one of our priorities. the kyoto protocol is a significant step, but it is far from sufficient. it is important to understand that the kyoto commitments must be followed by new commitments if climate change is to be sufficiently slowed down. however, the implementation of the kyoto commitments will be a major undertaking in itself and a major change from what has been done so far. the european union's action has two main aspects. one is the union's own actions to reduce emissions; the other is the union's activity in international negotiations. eu action to reduce emissions is essential, as are national measures taken by member states, if only to ensure the international credibility of the european union. a report by the european environment agency indicates with concern that business as usual will lead to an increase in future emissions in the european union rather than the eight per cent reduction by 2010 we had committed to. this means that new policy measures are needed. one of the most important objectives of the finnish presidency is the implementation of the first sectoral strategies in the fields of energy, transport and agriculture. without such sectoral strategies, it is not possible to achieve the emission reductions we have committed to. in my view, it is important that these sectoral strategies become a continuous process, that is to say that we should not be satisfied with the first versions, but that, on the contrary, these sectoral strategies should be reviewed at regular intervals, for example in the field of transport and energy, and that ever more ambitious objectives should be set. in the international negotiations, i think the most important thing would be to find answers to the questions that are still outstanding, so that we can consider ratifying the kyoto protocol, so that it can come into force and become binding. finland's objective at the fifth meeting of the parties in bonn is to make decisive progress in the creation of rules for the kyoto mechanisms and also in the establishment of rules for the monitoring of agreements. our aim is that, if possible, the fifth meeting should lead to a draft treaty, in which there will of course be unresolved points, but which will enable us to meet the timetable for the treaty to become a reality at the sixth meeting. it is therefore essential that progress be made at this autumn's meeting. one of the most difficult issues is the division of roles between developing and industrialised countries. the finnish presidency will work to ensure that climate policy and development policy can support each other. we are also preparing resolutions in the development council on the respective relations between climate policy and development policy. what is also important for developing countries is, for example, technology transfer. the most important mechanism of these technology transfers will be the cdm, the clean development mechanism. in order for these technology transfers and also the transfers of funds to developing countries to start working, we need rules for this cdm, but it is also important for the european union to make balanced progress in defining all three of the flexibility instruments provided for by the kyoto protocol: the clean development mechanism, international emissions trading and joint application. the 50% ceiling proposed by the european union for the use of flexibility instruments has been the subject of severe criticism from the other contracting parties, which means that it will be a very difficult issue in international negotiations. in conclusion, i would say that the commission's communication on its preparation for the implementation of the kyoto protocol is a clear document and a good start, but it contains mainly preliminary measures. it is also essential to develop a longer-term action programme.
commission - (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the united nations convention on climate change was adopted in rio in 1992, the european union clearly took the lead in relation to the rest of the world. the same was true when the kyoto protocol was signed in 1997. my ambition is to ensure that the eu maintains this role in the fight against climate change. the european parliament has already had the important task of advancing this work. the resolution which has been tabled today is also welcome. this is a huge political challenge. the ratification of the kyoto protocol is not yet within reach. many rich countries, where greenhouse gas emissions exceed acceptable limits, are skeptical. moreover, the largest increases in emissions over the next two decades will occur in developing countries. in the eu itself, the amount of waste is moving in the wrong direction. it has increased considerably in recent years, particularly in the field of transport. it is important to note that by the year 2000 the eu will probably have stabilised its greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels, but this is not enough. if we continue at the present rate, we will not be able to meet the ambitions of the kyoto decision to reduce emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. this is a bad development, both in the long term and for the eu's credibility on the international stage. how do we meet this challenge? mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said at the hearing before this parliament, the fight against climate change is one of my top priorities. i will propose the measures necessary to achieve results in this area. let me start today by mentioning three elements which i believe should be part of an effective and comprehensive climate strategy. firstly, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need a strategy of concrete measures in various areas. a wide range of actors and economic sectors should be involved in this work. to achieve this, i will launch early next year a climate change action programme, the guiding idea of which will be to bring together all interested partners, whether technical experts, business representatives, non-governmental organisations or other key actors. the aim is, of course, to achieve a synergy effect and to try to reach an agreement on the practical measures which the commission may propose to the council and parliament. such a programme could serve as a basis for further measures. an important part of this will be to spread knowledge and make better use of the enormous benefits offered by new technologies. these represent considerable potential, together with renewable energy, new vehicle technologies, and low-energy appliances and machines that are waiting to be brought to market. this potential has not yet been sufficiently exploited. we must draw the attention of a number of people and economic actors to the fact that this new technology also has financial advantages in many cases. the market for these new technical solutions must be expanded, with clear regulation and incentives. secondly, i intend to present a green paper on emissions trading in the eu in the year 2000. i am aware that there are still some doubts about the application of such mechanisms to the flexibility of the system. nevertheless, i am convinced that if they are regulated by a set of effective and clear provisions, they will help to enable us to achieve the necessary reduction in atmospheric emissions at a cost-effective level. thirdly, in addition to these measures, we must also achieve changes in areas which affect greenhouse gas emissions but which are outside the scope of environmental policy. i am thinking in particular of sectors such as energy, transport and industry. that is why we must ensure that the integration strategy adopted in cardiff in june 1998 delivers results. the discussions at the helsinki summit in december will in many ways be decisive for how these sectors can contribute to combating climate change. many people say that all this will take a long time. that is absolutely true, but it is precisely an argument for taking action now. we are seeing some positive developments in some areas. i am thinking, for example, of the efforts made by my colleague, commissioner bolkestein, to remove the obstacles which are holding up the negotiations on the proposed tax on energy consumption. however, it is clear that if some member states continue to oppose this proposal, we will have to look for other solutions. i noted that the european parliament was in favour of the application of the flexibility clause provided for in the amsterdam treaty. this clause gives certain member states the right to take the lead in this area. transport and energy issues are also of crucial importance in the fight against climate change. i will have the opportunity to discuss with commissioner loyola de palacio the objective of doubling the use of renewable energy sources and further improving energy efficiency. we will also discuss the reduction of air emissions from the transport sector. the commission will shortly adopt new guidelines on state aid for environmental protection. my colleague, mr mario monti, is currently studying how subsidies and financial incentives can help to improve the environment and protect our climate. i will also consider whether aid to fossil fuels could be converted to the use of renewable energy and energy saving measures. i would also ask the european parliament to consider what it can do itself, within the framework of its tasks, to integrate climate change issues into the various economic sectors. we need your full support to achieve rapid results in this area. i fully share the view of this house that we should allow citizens to play an active role in this work by providing them with clear and easily accessible information. we will only achieve results if each of us takes his or her share of responsibility for this problem. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the measures i have just mentioned will help to give europe the credibility it needs to continue to lead the crusade for ratification of the kyoto protocol. this ratification should take place as soon as possible after the sixth conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change. if our efforts are to succeed, we will of course also need the full cooperation of the member states, who will have to implement the measures to which they have committed themselves. minister hassi has already mentioned the international negotiations which will take place in the near future, in the context of the fifth conference of partners. in conclusion, let me stress the crucial role of the eu as a hub between the us and the developing countries in ensuring that both sides are fully involved in this process and that they implement the measures adopted. i am counting on the full support of parliament and close cooperation to achieve results, which is our common responsibility to succeed and also in the interest of future generations.
- mr president, i can't think of a worse setting than this building to hold a debate on climate change. this building celebrates humanity's ignorance of the imperatives of climate change. there is no natural light, and we consume huge amounts of electricity. even the elevators are black, so we need electric light. that said, i welcome the remarks made by the president-in-office and the commissioner and, if i may speak in my humble capacity, i congratulate her on her inaugural speech. the kyoto protocol has raised some expectations and the impression of this parliament is that things have been left dormant for far too long after the conclusion of the negotiations on the kyoto protocol. in a way, this was a political conspiracy to conceal from the people of our member states how painful the implementation of the kyoto protocol would be. it's going to cost them money. it will be money well spent because it is necessary to protect our environment, but it will cost them money. i would like to thank mrs wallström for outlining the commission's future action in this area. at one point she said in a way that i found somewhat sweet that she was going to propose tangible measures in various sectors. well , then . we shall see what those measures are. we are delighted with the publication of an action programme in the spring and of a green paper on emissions trading. during the hearing of the commissioner about a month ago, my committee, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was quite divided on the issue of emissions trading measures but it is worth exploring this path now. we must put forward an action programme to enable the european union to honour the commitments it made in kyoto. as we have done in our resolution, we would like to stress the need for action, particularly in the air transport sector. this is not a matter that can be left to the commissioner responsible for transport; the initiative should come from mrs wallström. finally, i would like to assure the commissioner of the full support of the committee on the environment for any proposal she may put forward. whatever it is, we hope that it will be put forward in a concrete way in the near future.
- mr president, i welcome many of the things the commissioner has said and is proposing to do. with my amendment, i ask him to do one more thing. we all want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and my amendment does not judge the principle of energy taxes but is intended to help us make decisions based on any proposal in this area. we need to know the estimated impact on employment in europe and to what extent pollution could not simply be exported to low-income countries which can hardly afford to deal with it. for example, for a large uk tomato grower who is currently paying £363,000 for gas and £60,000 for electricity, the proposed climate change tax in the uk would increase his energy bill by £149,000. that is a staggering increase, a 35% increase which would simply cause this business to flee britain to a country outside the eu, to eastern europe or to a developing country, perhaps. what would happen then is that the european union would claim to have reduced its pollution and emissions but the cost would be first, the loss of european jobs and second, that the level of global pollution would not have decreased by one iota: simply, pollution would have been exported. in my view, this would be immoral to low-income countries and economically insane for working people in europe. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has asked us to ensure that every measure - they say 'every measure' - taken to implement the kyoto objectives is carefully evaluated. they're right. that's what i want. that is what i am asking you to do, commissioner. please publish your impact assessments on employment and on the export of emissions. only then can we make an informed decision.
counsel. - (sv) the council and the european parliament acknowledge, firstly, that gender equality policy remains of the utmost importance, secondly, that the action programme is the most important tool available to the eu for implementing the commitments made at the beijing conference, and finally, that successful implementation requires the integration of this gender equality perspective into all policy areas. that is why we expect the council, under the finnish presidency, to adopt conclusions to achieve this objective and to support the commission's intention to present as soon as possible a proposal for a new action programme in this respect, which could be implemented as soon as the current programme expires. the council also plans to implement indicators and test beds for the follow-up of the action programme drawn up at the beijing conference. the finnish presidency has prepared a first report on women's participation in decision-making processes. finland proposed that the council declare its intention to continue the development of these indicators and test benches in the next mandates in other critical areas identified in the beijing conference action programme and to undertake to review regularly the progress made in these areas.
the council has not yet submitted its proposal, and i must say that the question of the budget is premature. the council cannot therefore take a position on this point at the moment.
the council could of course indicate what its response would be if the commission were to put forward such a proposal for funding. however, my question to the council is this: does the council not think that the european institutions should set an example in terms of equality and is it satisfied with the current situation as regards the staff of the institutions? even though mr prodi has undertaken some reforms, it seems to me that women are still largely under-represented in the hierarchy of the council, the commission and - to be honest - this institution too.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, respect for human rights and tolerance are fundamental values of the european union, fundamental values of western europe. in this respect, we must all work hard to create in all member states a climate in which sexual minorities, among others, are respected and valued. as regards the texts of regulations, they allow to influence the development to a certain extent, but here too it is more a question of attitudes. attitudes can also be influenced by cultural and social policy measures. it must be said that efforts must be made in all sectors of society to ensure that the climate in all european states is as tolerant as possible.
- thank you very much. i don't think you read the question: it asked what action was to be taken. we know what needs to be done, but there is no point in standing here and saying that you will not do anything until the commission or parliament does something. such inaction is in fact a justification for these attacks on minorities. i therefore offer you a further opportunity to answer the question: will the council undertake an audit of the member states to establish which of them have legislation which discriminates against lesbians and gay men, which does not offer equal rights, equal civil rights for lesbians and gay men and equal legal protection for lesbians and gay men? only after we have determined this will we be able to start implementing article 13 of the amsterdam treaty. we have to stop talking. we have to stop making excuses. we must act and act quickly; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
- mr president, this proposal is timely and urgent. it is urgent because we have not yet determined how to control the proliferation of small arms, because we have not strengthened the code to cover conventional weapons. death and destruction can be caused in almost any way. i recently saw the mass grave in rwanda of over half a million people shot with machetes, a single weapon in the hand of a man killing person after person. half a million people were slaughtered in this way during the genocide. a short time ago, 25,000 people were killed by a surface-to-surface missile in the marshy region of southern iraq. so death and destruction can be caused by simple or complex means. this proposal is timely because the united nations has now declared the year 2000 to be the year of peace and has announced a decade of un peace goals. let us contribute to this effort by endorsing this proposal.
- mr president, this resolution expresses our dismay at the atrocities in east timor and these terrible events underline the need for effective controls on arms exports. if we believe strongly in this - and i hope we do - how can we not take the next logical step, which is to condemn governments that do not respect gun controls. what is the point of an arms export code of conduct or an arms embargo if we do not condemn those who violate them? just a week after the uk agreed to the eu arms embargo on the indonesian government last month, three british hawk warplanes were secretly delivered to indonesia. it is hard to believe that the british government failed to stop the delivery of these warplanes, which arrived just hours before indonesian forces massacred at least five protesters in jakarta. make this resolution on arms exports a resolution worthy of this parliament. make it a resolution that actually takes into account the terrible suffering of the indonesian people. make it a resolution that strongly condemns governments that do not respect eu arms embargoes. that is precisely what the green/efa amendment is trying to do, and that is why i ask you to support it.
- the war against serbian ethnic cleansing in kosovo was a just war. it was a fight to defend european values. the fact that it was to protect a majority muslim people - the albanian-speaking kosovars - from oppression and genocide by christian serbs showed that such values are independent of religious beliefs, even if they are certainly influenced by them. the fundamental value we fought for was the right to be different - the right to live in peace while being able to preserve one's own culture and identity and to enjoy full political and civil rights, without having to suffer discrimination or being confined in a ghetto. it would be a betrayal for those who, like myself, believed that the war in kosovo was moral in nature, to have to tolerate discrimination against all the minorities present - whether it be the serb minority, the subject of my group's amendment, or the roma minority. we can of course understand the resentments and feelings of injustice, but we cannot ignore the basic justice. here we again stress the need for a proper investigation of war crimes. the success of the austrian freedom party last week may help to make populist and xenophobic views in europe dangerously respectable. this resolution sends a message not only to the albanian-speaking kosovars, but also to the rest of the world that europe does not accept any form of xenophobia. europe has not chosen to defend certain communities or minorities. he insists on the defence of human rights for all.
commission - as regards the death penalty, over the past three years the un human rights committee has adopted a resolution on the death penalty with a growing number of co-sponsors. in order to take the policy against the death penalty a step further, to consolidate the achievements of the human rights committee and to put the issue of the death penalty on the agenda of the united nations general assembly, the eu member states decided to introduce a resolution to the third committee during the 54th session of the general assembly. the european union intends to draft a targeted and concise text with a view to winning the widest possible support. the european union will seek to work with other regions and states that share the same view in order to achieve the best possible result. what mr dupuis said, that this initiative is not anti-american, caught my attention. i agree with that. this initiative is people-oriented. the commission is closely following developments in indonesia and is very concerned - as are the members - about the horrific inter-religious conflict in the maluku islands, which has left many people injured and dead. the european union has made it clear to the indonesian government on several occasions, with particular reference to the maluku islands, that it considers it responsible for the maintenance of law and order in indonesia. the government is very much aware of the union's view and recognises its responsibilities. echo has led a €1 million project to provide humanitarian aid to the population in need. the project included the provision of drinking water, food and medicine. we are considering the possibility of renewing this project. indonesia is currently undergoing significant political, economic and social changes. we hope that this process will help to improve the social climate, especially with regard to inter-ethnic and inter-religious tensions. i listened to the debate today and in my view it shows maturity and sobriety and will help to promote what i would call a soft landing for indonesia and all the people of indonesia. as regards belarus, the commission is closely following developments in belarus. we have noted that the belarusian government and the opposition have entered into a constructive dialogue in order to agree on acceptable conditions for the holding of free and fair elections and thus for the restoration of the rule of law in the country. the commission is concerned, however, about the human rights situation in belarus, and in particular the disappearances of political figures, including mr gonchar, who has recently disappeared. on 24 september, the eu presidency formally requested the belarusian authorities to spare no effort in finding mr gonchar and ensuring his safety. this development threatens any agreement between the government and the opposition in the framework of their dialogue recently launched. in a few days' time the commission will adopt the tacis civil society development programme, in a slightly amended form, following the informal agreement reached with the belarusian authorities last june. the document will then be formally submitted to the belarusian authorities for approval. we hope that the belarusian authorities will continue to commit themselves to supporting the programme. we will thus have reached an important political milestone, set by the european union last april. the european union will only be able to normalise its relations with belarus by political steps. among these, human rights are important, as is free access to the media, an end to the harassment of the opposition, constructive dialogue between the opposition and the government and support for the civil society development programme, tacis. as regards the ill-treatment of the roma and serbs in kosovo, i would like to make the following comments. the commission shares the concern expressed in these resolutions. the commission and the european union have clearly condemned all ethnic violence, regardless of who is the perpetrator or the victim. the violence against the serbs and the roma is just as unacceptable as the violence against the kosovars a few months ago. the commission continues to support, through its programme of aid in the field of democratisation and human rights, measures to re-establish trust and dialogue between the various communities. we have done this before the conflict, but unfortunately in vain. today the situation has changed and this remains a priority in the selection of projects. the commission, through echo, also provides humanitarian aid to victims of the kosovo crisis, including the serb and roma minorities. we fully support the efforts of kfor to maintain justice and order and to protect all citizens. we fully support unmik's efforts to establish an operational civilian administration to take over from kfor in maintaining order and to create a peaceful multi-ethnic society that works towards the reconstruction of kosovo and its society. the un mission in kosovo has requested the commission to provide support for the kosovo protection corps. in the coming weeks, the member states will decide on the programme proposed by the commission in this respect. we call on all others inside and outside kosovo to also support these objectives and to support unmik and kfor in their efforts to achieve them. we are also opposed to the cantonation of kosovo. kosovo must become a multiethnic society without distinction and discrimination on the basis of ethnicity or any other basis.
commission - i will tell them of your wish for this meeting to take place, but i would also add that the existing organizational structure is extremely complex. most of the problems we are facing will fall somewhere within the established framework for organizing support and rebuilding society in kosovo. so i think this subject will come up somewhere, but i will let them know what you want.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: - b5-0138/99 by mrs muscardini, on behalf of the eldr group, on the air disaster in ustica; - b5-0148/99 by mrs procacci and mrs haarder, on behalf of the uen group, on the ustica air disaster in italy on 27 june 1980; - b5-0156/99 by mr barón crespo and others, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the ustica air disaster; - b5-0160/99 by mrs di lello and mr manisco, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the ustica bombing on 27 june 1980; - b5-0162/99 by mr celli and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the ustica air disaster of 27 june 1980; - b5-0176/99 by mr bodrato and mrs grossetête, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the ustica air disaster.
the commission regrets this tragedy and hopes that the investigations by the italian authorities will be conducted in a transparent and fair manner. the commission shares the concern of meps and calls on the member states to work with the italian authorities to gather all available evidence to identify the causes of the disaster. the commission would point out that the community does not currently have competence in this area. it is up to the member states to take the necessary measures. the commission is aware, however, that the common use of airspace by different users, both civilian and military, can be the cause of safety problems, as it is already partly responsible for delays and congestion of air traffic. that is why the commission has in the past, in its white paper on the liberalisation of european airspace, advocated that the management of european airspace be centralised and managed by a powerful international organisation for all aspects of its use. the commission also felt that it would be better to entrust this task to eurocontrol rather than to a community body, as national governments would be more willing to accept that this organisation should play a major role in the military use of airspace. at the request of the council, the commission is preparing a communication on delays and congestion in air traffic and will certainly review this issue and propose initiatives in the field of airspace management.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m.
- doc. b5-0141/99 by mr maaten and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on recent nuclear accidents and the transport of dangerous substances; - b5-0150/99 by mrs mcnally, on behalf of the pse group, on the accident at the tokaimura nuclear power station in japan; - b5-0161/99 by mr papayannakis and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the nuclear accident in japan; - b5-0165/99 by mrs ahern and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the very serious nuclear accident in japan and the transport of mixed oxide fuel; - b5-0171 by mrs grossetête and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the nuclear accident at tokaimura in japan;
- every accident is a tragedy for people and, of course, we express our sympathy to the workers affected by the tokaimura accident, their families and the 300 000 inhabitants who had to experience terrible fear for several days. accidents happen in all industries, we just saw in the uk a terrible train accident this week. but accidents in nuclear installations, especially critical accidents, are the most feared. while they are rare, for obvious reasons, their potential consequences for a very large number of people are extremely serious. that is why the nuclear industry must be more careful than other industries. this industry will not survive if the public does not believe in a culture of safety that is firmly inculcated and strictly enforced. this culture has clearly been started this week in tokaimura. there will be an investigation. we hope and expect that the conclusions will be available to all so that lessons can be learned where nuclear activities take place. the staff of this industry expects it, and the public certainly expects it. nuclear activity requires contingency plans, on-site inspections by independent inspectors and the factoring in of the possibility of error or negligence. it's expensive, but it has to be done. all facilities in the supply chain must meet the safety requirements. any weakness is dangerous. those whose concerns have been fully justified by this very serious accident in japan are demanding a full-scale investigation and a public explanation.
- two accidents have caught our attention in the last ten days. the first occurred in tokaimura. forty-five people were injured and three are in hospital in critical condition. the second was the london train accident, in which 70 people were killed and 200 injured, when a train carrying hundreds of passengers from the capital to the region of england i represent. while i share the grief of the victims of the train accident and their relatives, i fear that these two accidents are very different. accidents in transport systems threaten the lives of hundreds of people, and nuclear accidents can unfortunately affect hundreds of thousands or even millions of people. mrs mcnally pointed out that in tokaimura, near tokyo, 300,000 people were unable to leave their homes. it turns out the accident wasn't as bad as we thought. as a former japanese official and as a former member of the japanese delegation for 15 years, i wish to publicly express our concern for the victims of this accident in japan. i would like to make three political remarks. first, it is quite obvious that human error or human stupidity will always affect us in all our activities. we cannot trust any individual. at tokaimura, it even appears that staff - with the active collusion of management or due to management's failure to enforce regulations - have violated regulations designed to ensure nuclear safety. rumor has it there was an illegal management manual that told the staff to work this way. a quick action by the japanese police inside the company would allow us to know if this was indeed the case. if that were the case, it would prove that nietzsche was right when he said that madness is rare in individuals but common in parties, groups and organizations. we therefore need individual and independent controls to monitor what is happening in nuclear power stations. someone has to stop these people from making stupid mistakes. secondly, there is a clear lack of contingency plans. thirdly, we must add that we should offer our help to the japanese if they ask for it. finally, two corrections of fact: firstly, our amendment no 6 makes it clear that when we ask that the plant not be reopened until an investigation has been carried out, we are talking about processing plants and not the tokaimura reprocessing plant, a different plant on a different site, run by a different company...
the commission shares the concern of the european parliament and others about the accident at the japanese uranium processing plant. the fact that such an accident could occur in a technologically advanced country like japan is a reminder that nuclear safety obviously requires extreme vigilance at all times and at all levels. the fact that the managers of a facility handling such hazardous materials were able to obstruct or circumvent procedures designed to prevent such accidents is also a matter of serious concern. this raises in particular the question of the whole safety culture of the plant and the level of training of the staff as well as the importance of rapid dissemination of information. the commission has already requested more information from the japanese authorities on the accident and its causes. the authorities have launched an investigation. it will no doubt cover regulatory issues, safety procedures, supervision and staff training. the commission will analyse the report of this inquiry very carefully in order to draw the lessons for europe. in the light of these lessons, it will review its emergency procedures in due course. poor safety management and a lack of training or qualifications of personnel appear to have played a decisive role in the origin of the accident, as in many others. in the european union, the national authorities of the member states must request commitments to inform exposed staff and apprentices of the health hazards associated with their work and to train them in radiation protection. the commission will ask the member states what their latest provisions are on radiation protection and staff training. the commission will also undertake a study of the current levels of nuclear safety training of operators and other workers in the various types of nuclear installations in the european union. research into safety culture in the nuclear sector is already included in the research and training part of the community's fifth framework programme. research into the safety of nuclear reactors is also included in the programme, although the level of funding is lower than before. the commission will respond positively to any request for assistance from the japanese authorities in the management or assessment of the consequences of the accident. the commission services will remain in close contact with the international atomic energy agency to exchange information and analysis and, if necessary, support monitoring activities. the issues raised in the proposal concerning the manufacture, transport and use of mixed oxide - the mox fuel - are unrelated to the accident at the tokaimura plant. issues relating to fuel inspection at the mox fuel reprocessing plant are the responsibility of national authorities and have been reported to the uk nuclear installations inspectorate. there was no way that any part of the equipment could escape security. the transport of mox fuel shall be carried out under the control of the national authorities of the country of origin and destination, taking into account the relevant community legislation and iaea standards. given that the mox fuel for japan is ready for use by nuclear power plants without further processing, it will not pass through the tokaimura facility. as regards the use of mox fuel in nuclear power stations, this decision was taken individually by the power stations with the authorization of the national safety authorities.
- the joint discussion is over. we now move to the vote.
- the agenda calls for a vote on topical and urgent matters of major importance. the result of the vote: see minutes.
- at the moment i can only assure you that the electronic version of the texts will be available this afternoon.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution calls, among other things, for a tax on kerosene and a kilometre tax on cars. i believe that these measures are harmful and unnecessary, and i am in any case opposed in principle to taxes set at european level. i would say that tax policy is a matter for the member states alone. in view of my group's position on this matter, i shall not vote against this resolution, but i shall abstain.
- voting is closed. composition of committees and delegations - forwarding of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of next part-sessions: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.05 p.m.)
- madam president, i handed you a note saying that i intended to raise the issue of the chinese president's visit to france and the united kingdom and the impact of that visit on human rights violations in china. i also intend to mention the arrests and the oppressive police behaviour that has been taking place in france and the united kingdom. there have been serious human rights violations in china and this must be taken into account. i hope, madam president, that you are not planning to invite the chinese president to this parliament, because that would be a real disgrace. so much the better for him if he's invited by the queen or president chirac, but please, don't invite him here. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i would like to speak on behalf of my colleague, mrs lynne, who unfortunately injured her shoulder when she fell down the stairs while showing how dangerous it is to climb stairs! mrs lynne is reported to have asked for the debate on british beef to be closed by motions for resolutions from various political groups. i would like to propose that the political groups be invited to table motions for resolutions at the end of the debate on british beef.
- madam president, i apologize for the lack of clarity i showed in my first speech. we have to be very careful not to let the council and the commission get involved in this. however, we have been informed that the commission wishes to make a statement on friday because the veterinary committee will be meeting on this subject on thursday. the commission will therefore be able to provide more information on friday, which we welcome. however, we would also like to ask that members be given the opportunity to table motions for resolutions to close the debate.
- madam president, instead of watching the british liberals and conservatives gesticulate over the british beef issue, could we have a look at the commission's statement on friday? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want mr byrne to make a clear statement this friday on the legality of the document drawn up by the french government. i expect this declaration to restore british beef to health. secondly, we want the commission to take action with the french government to get it to back down and allow the free movement of goods within the european union. at this stage, there is no need for parliament to adopt a resolution. i hope that the british members of the other groups will stop pursuing the kind of petty politics we are witnessing this week in this house. (applause from the left)
- madam president, it should be said at this stage that it was the british conservatives, the epp, who asked for this to be on friday's agenda, for the simple reason that, as mr watson said, the commission will not be ready until friday morning. i therefore reject mr donnelly's allegations. the british conservatives want free trade to be guaranteed within the european union. we want the internal market to work and consumers to buy british beef on the continent.
- madam president, my report, which was to be debated and voted on this week, has been postponed. i thought it had been deferred to the part-session on 3 november, but i do not see it anywhere on the draft agenda. could you tell me whether this is an oversight or whether the report will be postponed again? i'm beginning to think my report should be renamed "the postponement". (laughter)
- madam president, i am speaking on the question of television reception raised by my colleague, mrs plooij-van gorsel, to express the hope that the technical problems which prevent us from receiving the programmes of bbc1 and bbc2 at the moment can be solved. i realize that we, the english-speaking world, are spoiled because we are able to pick up sky, cnn and bbc world but it's not the same as picking up national tv channels.
- madam president, this interinstitutional agreement makes a further contribution, in the view of my group, to restoring the credibility of the european union in the way it deals with the problems of fraud and financial mismanagement. i say 'additional' because last year parliament adopted the most stringent provisions of any national parliament in europe - or at least - on the declaration of financial interests of members. moreover, its rules already contain one of the most stringent provisions on the activities of interest groups working with the institution. this interinstitutional agreement takes us one step further in another direction, in that it would oblige all members and staff to use the ad hoc procedure to inform the future office, olaf, so that a proper investigation can be carried out into any allegation of fraud. the interinstitutional agreement has been signed by the other institutions and has already been adopted, as regards internal provisions, by both the council and the commission, and this agreement applies equally to politicians and staff. today we are going to adopt the same or very similar provisions for members of parliament. it has been shown in the debate that the epp group now accepts that these provisions should also apply to members of parliament, and i welcome that. a question has been raised about this and i think we have resolved it satisfactorily in committee by means of a compromise amendment which mr gil robles and i tabled. the council stated that the application of the interinstitutional agreement was without prejudice to any provisions of the law or the rules of procedure relating to the obligation of confidentiality imposed on members. this point has been clarified, so there is absolutely no reason why this interinstitutional agreement should not be fully implemented. i am glad that we can achieve this today; at least that is what the speakers who have spoken so far think. to postpone or, worse, not to approve and apply this interinstitutional agreement internally would be a source of embarrassment for the european parliament. this would undermine the excellent work done by parliament to rebuild the credibility of the european union in the field of fraud and financial mismanagement.
- madam president, my group welcomes this decision. in fact, we regret the delay of four months in parliament in bringing the report to a conclusion. further failure or delay would be catastrophic for the public reputation of parliament. the key to this decision is article 2. this will prevent a case like the van buitenen case from arising in parliament's own ranks. the final clause of article 2 is slightly obscure and questions will be raised as to its meaning. it is important that we recognize that under the rules of procedure of parliament, information acquired in a temporary committee of inquiry must remain secret only if it contributes to the preparation of the inquiry report. it should be recognised that any information which is superfluous or irrelevant must be disclosed immediately.
- mr president, it is remarkable that we are coming to the end of a period of some 500 years in which the main form of authentication of documents and transactions was the written, certified signature, etc. now, in the space of half a lifetime, we're going to enter a world dominated by e-commerce, new technologies and signatures that don't exist in the traditional sense of the word and therefore will need to be authenticated in a new way. for many of us, and i am surprised that mrs thors has not mentioned it, this is an exciting phenomenon and a source of equality and freedom. in the past, the world was dominated by the large centres at the expense of the peripheries. but in the new world of e-commerce, there is no centre: the periphery is as central as the centre. for many of us in this house, and certainly for mr miller and myself representing scotland, this is a very good thing. this is a welcome development, so much so that the european union should work to develop a proper framework for this form of trade - a proper framework to build mutual trust between citizens of different countries, because, after all, if there is one thing that does not recognize borders, it is the internet. we think, as do other speakers, that this directive is doing an excellent job. i would like to congratulate my new colleague, mr lechner, in particular on the work he has done for us in the committee. members of my own group would have been more satisfied if this directive contained elements relating to greater protection of privacy and data. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. however, we may need to discuss it again at a later time. it is also very important, as other speakers have said, that we have the opportunity to develop this system further at international level because the eu's borders are artificial in this area. i want to make sure that when we develop international agreements, citizens or consumers are not faced with overwhelming provisions. many of us feel that the balance has not always been struck in the world trade organisation between, for example, environmental concerns, consumer and worker protection and trade liberalisation. let's make sure that doesn't happen again in this area. the negotiators who represent us must fight hard to establish a fair framework and a free market.
- mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr lechner on his report and on the way he has presented it to parliament. i think the argument he has made very clearly is very important, namely that this legislation is part of a long series of acts which will govern electronic commerce. this will certainly be very significant, not only for europe but also for all businesses worldwide. in this context, i would like to use my speaking time to express particular concern about the possible impact of the proposed 'amsterdamised' - if i may use that horrible word - versions of the brussels and rome treaties on the functioning of this part of the single market. as i understand this position, they could seriously threaten the market in that a number of provisions seem to ignore the principle of country of origin on which, as parliament knows, the single market is based. if the principle of country of origin is not respected in the construction of the single market, i fear that it will not serve the interests of the european citizens. as we all know, electronic commerce will become increasingly important for the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the european union. if the legal framework for this type of trade turns out to be flawed, it will jeopardise the well-being of all european citizens. and if, as i believe, the erosion of the country of origin principle fundamentally threatens the single market for electronic services in europe - which in turn affects electronic commerce operations worldwide - then this will have negative and detrimental repercussions for european citizens. we, as representatives of these citizens, must do everything in our power to ensure that this does not happen.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate mr lechner on the way he has presented the report and i commend him particularly for not trying to add too many elements to this directive, which is an excellent document in its own right. the temptation still exists for the rapporteurs to add new aspects but he wisely resisted the temptation. i spoke for the first time in this house in july to commend the finnish presidency for giving priority to the information society. i am particularly pleased to be able to comment on the directive we are discussing today and to add my contribution to that of my colleagues: this directive is a crucial measure because it is the first of a series. the way we deal with this issue in this house, in the commission and in the union will be of crucial importance for the future development of e-commerce. i take this opportunity to reflect on the implications for other directives and to ask the commission in particular to ensure that the way in which this first directive will operate in practice is carefully examined. as mrs berger and other colleagues have pointed out, member state governments enjoy a certain degree of flexibility in the way they implement this directive. we want to make sure that provisions are not added to the directive to make it too restrictive or too intrusive, which would have the effect of hindering the development or use of electronic signatures and thus curbing the growth of electronic commerce itself. in short, that is what we are trying to achieve with this legislation. we want legislation that encourages the development of e-commerce from the consumer's point of view and that encourages businesses to enter this new era of e-commerce. electronic signatures will prove important in that they will provide consumers with the necessary security to encourage them to engage in electronic commerce. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that this aspect of the directive is monitored at national government level to ensure that it effectively contributes to encouraging consumers and businesses to participate in this electronic revolution. another important aspect of this directive is that it is technologically neutral. it is not for politicians to determine technological solutions. we live in a fast-paced world, where products are developed in a matter of months, marketed and accepted by consumers in a very short time. we must ensure that our legislation does not close the door to technological options and does not prevent engineers and software engineers from developing new products. i would ask the commission again to monitor this matter closely. the last point - and i think it is crucial - about the development of e-commerce throughout the union is that we need to provide a framework that encourages small businesses to get involved in e-commerce. if we do not encourage small and micro-enterprises to take advantage of the immense potential of this technology to open markets quickly and cheaply, to offer new products to consumers in a direct, simple and effective way, i think we will have failed. once again we need to look at how this directive applies to small and mediumsized businesses and we need, in particular, to take up the point made by my colleague lord inglewood, to ensure that the changes made to the general legal framework do not prevent small businesses from entering the world of e-commerce. i recommend this legislation. i hope that the commission will take account of the suggestions i have just made to usher in this new era of framework regulation of electronic commerce.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am changing my hat to present my report to parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market very sincerely for entrusting me with this task one week after i took office and i see that a number of colleagues are here to support me. i'm going to try to make this presentation simple. it is a major legislative act relating to the single market and lays down uniform technical specifications for a fundamental component of fuel tanks in motor vehicles. the proposal achieves four important objectives. firstly, it introduces uniform standards for the testing of plastic tanks; this includes all categories of motor vehicles, namely cars and commercial vehicles. some of you may be aware that the automotive industry is increasingly using plastics. these uniform testing standards will enable designers to concentrate on meeting a single standard rather than dispersing their efforts to meet a whole series of different standards. it is often thought that these technical guidelines do not mean much to consumers. however, i must stress, from my experience as an engineer in the automotive industry, that if engineers were allowed to focus on making safer and cleaner vehicles instead of having to comply with a whole series of different regulations, customers and users would be the ultimate beneficiaries. that is the first objective. the second objective is to extend the provisions on technical specifications in the future through a regulatory committee procedure with a view to introducing new standards for gaseous fuel tanks. it is an important and forward-looking proposal because gaseous fuels are increasingly being used - for example, liquefied natural gas and petroleum gas - and because hydrogen may well be used as a fuel in the future. this is a sensible step, but it took 18 months for this relatively straightforward technical measure to reach the stage of second reading. this does not seem to me to be a very wise use of administrative time. that is the second point i wanted to raise. thirdly, this directive allows the extension of the type-approval to cases where motor vehicles are equipped, after their construction, with additional tanks for supplementary fuel or with additional tanks of larger capacity. once again, this is an increasingly important safety measure. these three main objectives were contained in the original commission proposal which was transmitted to parliament at first reading and which subsequently led to the common position. parliament, at first reading, was particularly keen to add an important additional objective, namely to solve the problem of accidental spills of diesel fuel on the road which are increasingly dangerous for road users, especially cyclists and motorcyclists. parliament suggested that this problem should be tackled. this suggestion was rejected by the commission but the council's common position did contain this measure. the spill is the result of the wrong placement of the tank cap and the directive we are presenting to you, together with the amendments tabled by parliament at second reading to strengthen these provisions, tackles this problem by requiring that motor vehicle tanks be fitted with an effective closing mechanism so that the caps are always tightly closed. we have added recitals explicitly making these points the objectives of the legislation and reinforcing these technical requirements to ensure that the provisions prove effective. i am convinced that we will have the full support of the house. i would like to say, in presenting these points, that this is not the only solution to the problem. our committee also wishes to draw your attention to the fact that other committees should address this safety problem through the forthcoming directive on emissions from heavy commercial vehicles and through vehicle testing standards, to ensure that faulty tank caps are detected, during road checks or the annual technical inspection of commercial vehicles. in conclusion, mr president, the last element of this proposal concerns the committee procedure to maintain and improve the technical nature of this directive, as i said earlier. parliament proposed, at second reading, a change in the comitology provisions but, in the light of the amsterdam treaty, i did not recommend supporting these amendments. i suggest that we adopt the proposal from the council and the commission to accept the regulatory committee procedure. this question will be raised when we discuss mr ferri's proposal later. in conclusion, i recommend this proposal to the house. it is a sensible, straightforward proposal, relating to the single market, with a number of important elements, and i hope that it will have your unanimous support.
- mr president, i congratulate mr harbour on his first report. he has done a remarkable job for a newly elected member of parliament. he gave a clear explanation of the content of the report. i would like to touch on some of the points he raised. these relate to the security issues that are present throughout the report. the safety of two-wheel vehicles is discussed at the end of the report. few of you are probably aware that motorcycle accidents are more common around roundabouts than anywhere else on the road or highways. what's the reason? because of the diesel fuel spill. mr. harbour recognizes this fact in his first amendment. it states very clearly that diesel fuel spills are a danger to cyclists and motorcyclists. so we need to look at why diesel fuel spills are more common around roundabouts. these spills occur because of missing or misplaced tank caps. when commercial vehicles enter the roundabout, fuel tends to spill and motorcycles following these vehicles closely slip on the oily surfaces due to the presence of diesel on the roadway. that is why the second amendment addresses the whole issue of misplaced plugs and sometimes, the sheer absence of a plug. i commend him on that. i would also like to stress the fact that motorcycling is booming right now. motorcycling is experiencing a revival. i don't know why. i look at this house and i see that most of us are approaching middle age. some of us may remember our youth with nostalgia and the role of dennis hoper in the movie easy rider. i don't know, man. in any case, motorcycling is experiencing a revival which i welcome. that is why my group will support mr harbour's report fully.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not use the two minutes i have because some of the ideas i wanted to express, particularly on road safety, have already been expressed by previous speakers. i think the problem of road safety, and particularly the two-wheeler problem, is indeed a problem that affects the younger generation above all. i am a motorcyclist, not a motorist. i am also a member of several motorcycle clubs and take care of young people. that is why i think it is particularly necessary to do something in this particular area. it is obvious that speed limiting devices are needed, because without them the sometimes very high speeds of these vehicles can be harmful. these vehicles are not designed to reach such speeds, because of their high center of gravity, etc. that is why we support this directive and would of course welcome the european parliament to do more to ensure that road safety is harmonised in the member states. the accident statistics show this unequivocally: young people are the most affected in this area. we agree with the extension of the deadline. the sector must be given the opportunity to adapt if a common directive is to emerge in the end. we would also consider an advisory committee to be the appropriate instrument.
- mr president, i regret that i am taking up my colleagues' time in this way, but it shows the mutual interest we have in our respective measures. i welcome mr ferri's report and, in particular, the emphasis it places on road safety. this is so crucial that i would not want this directive to be hampered by discussions on comitology. it seems to me that this directive is too important for that. i know that mr ferri is very committed to comitology but it seems to me that we need to discuss much more important issues related to my own report, as i mentioned earlier. it is clear from mr ferri's analysis that we are not simply at a european level in motor vehicle legislation but at the level of the united nations economic commission for europe. the automotive industry has for many years accepted the role of the commission in establishing a wide range of international standards. we are increasingly entering into dialogue with the united states and japan on international technical standards for motor vehicles. we shall soon be considering a report on this subject in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, of which i am also a member. i think we are not doing the right thing if we merely look at the comitology aspects of this directive and put a brake on this measure. we must think about how we will review and approve international technical regulations and the european union's contribution to this. this is certainly something we should ask the commission to look into. we also need to examine our own approach. it is obvious, if we look around us tonight, that these technical directives are not of much interest to members of the european parliament. there are some enthusiasts who are interested in these issues and we need to think about ways in which we can participate in these technical processes. we must let the member states and the commission make their proposals and then look at some key initiatives and highlight the views of citizens, businessmen, road users and drivers everywhere in the european union. i don't think we've reached that balance. the safety benefits of mr ferri's directive are necessary but we need to take a much broader approach to how to deal with this evolution towards international technical standards in an industry which is crucial for the european union.
commission - (fi) mr president, the draft directive under consideration concerns the compulsory installation of a speed indicator on all new two- or three-wheel vehicles. the commission considers that, for safety and environmental reasons, it should no longer be acceptable for two- or three-wheel vehicles not equipped with an approved speed indicator to be placed on the market. users of two- or three-wheel vehicles must always be able to respect the speed limits in force in the member states. they should no longer be able to invoke the lack of regulation to avoid penalties for speeding. the speedometer is already standard equipment in many vehicles on the eu market, but this does not have a major influence on the overall price of the vehicle. in addition, the compulsory installation of a speed indicator on all the vehicles in question creates major advantages for users. the commission would be prepared to accept all the proposed amendments, but the fifth amendment concerning comitology may prove to be very problematic. as the commission will shortly be making a proposal to amend the framework directive, i.e. the directive which created the committee responsible for vehicles, the commission feels that it would be better to examine the comitology on this occasion. or when the new comitology decision, which was accepted in june, comes into force for the new committees, the case can be considered on that occasion. i would find it regrettable if the document was to be examined in conciliation this time only because of a problem with comitology.
the rapporteur, mr president, would like to thank once again all my colleagues on the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for their support in the preparation of this report. this report was considered at first reading by parliament earlier this year - i think in early april - and it pursued two objectives similar to those contained in this report. firstly, the free movement of cable installations. this is a crucial point for the concept of the single market. the free movement of persons can only be achieved - and i emphasize 'can not be achieved' - if safety standards are harmonized. i would add that each member state remains responsible for monitoring harmonization. the central point was therefore initially the free movement of cable installations. the second point concerned the safety of cable installations. earlier in the evening i raised the issue of safety - the safety of two-wheelers on the roads. we should be concerned within the european union with all aspects of safety in all modes of transport, not just two-wheelers, four-wheelers, trains, planes, boats, etc., but also cable cars and cable installations. we have to worry about security. this brings me to the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market. amendments nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 clarify the position with regard to any person using cable installations. in the past, this position included shaded areas. i hope that today, with the introduction of these four amendments, we will have clarified the position for all those who use these facilities. amendment no 4 is essentially a dust-up, since the old paragraph had become obsolete. amendment no 6 deals with mining installations which are the subject of separate legislation. amendments nos 7, 8, 9 and 10 simplify the safeguard clause. if we had fully approved the commission's text, we would have been left with three unwieldy paragraphs on safeguard measures. in this way we get one simplified paragraph. amendment no 11 again emphasizes some aspects of security. amendment no 12 is another dust-up. i recommend this report. it shall highlight the issue of security as a whole within the european union; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be a matter of concern to all of us and as such i hope that the commission and the council will accept it.
mr president, i would like to put forward, on behalf of myself and several other members of the european parliament, while fully respecting the nature of the formal sitting which is to take place today, a motion for a resolution on the basis of rule 19 of the rules of procedure, inspired by our concern for human rights and the fact that the visit of the colombian president is limited to a speech to this house and an official lunch with the leaders of the political groups. given that the colombian prosecutor himself admits that there has been one massacre a day in that country this year and that the colombian jurists' commission attributes 78% of these massacres to paramilitary organizations, under the complacent eye of the colombian regular forces, can you, as president of this parliament, ensure that certain human rights issues are raised in your private talks? in particular, will you ask when the law adopted in june this year will be applied, according to which the jurisdiction for crimes against humanity committed by the colombian military will now have to be transferred to civilian courts? you may wonder why cases of enforced disappearance, extrajudicial execution and rape were excluded from the scope of this law? will you find a suitable way of informing parliament of the replies you have received? my request is in keeping with the spirit of the various resolutions on human rights in colombia adopted by this parliament; it also expresses support for courageous human rights defenders who work under the threat of violence and death.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the 2000 budget has made considerable progress since i presented the council's draft budget here on 14 september. i have heard detailed views and justifications today on the content of the 2000 budget, particularly from the european parliament's point of view. the union's resource needs seem to be very varied and the key issues to be decided are gradually beginning to emerge. the new practice of trilogue has enabled us to examine many of the central problems in a positive spirit. the speeches also made it clear what the central area of the 2000 budget should be. the emphasis is on several current challenges in section 4 'external actions', which require common solutions from the budgetary authorities. my speech on the budget will first be on a general level and i shall come back to the question of kosovo or the question of section 4 at the end. i would like to comment on the compulsory agricultural expenditure, i.e. subcategory b1. the council's view is that the commission's draft overestimates the requirements for the year 2000. that is why the council, in its own review, reduced this item by eur 375 million. the commission's overestimation was regular throughout the 1990s. this is also reflected in this year's figures. the same can be seen with regard to rural development activities in subcategory b1. the differences between the council and parliament on the appropriations for structural items are exacerbated by two issues: firstly, the amount of advance payments for new structural items and, secondly, the timing of the management of old unpaid commitments. i consider both things to be purely technical. the commission has proposed an advance of 3.5% instead of 4%, but this does not require any amendment of the regulation. nor will this affect the new structural fund resources received by the member states in 2000-01. as regards old commitments not paid, it is necessary to take account of the new information published by the commission. it should also be noted that the level of payment of commitments presented by the commission, at 48%, is well above the floor of 45% set by the berlin european council. in the field of internal policies, there are many programmes which are currently being examined under the codecision procedure. it is important that the budgetary authorities respect the expenditure ceilings agreed in the interinstitutional agreement. this requires ever more effective coordination. there are major pressures in the development of the union's administration. the new commission promised to report on the development of the administration in february 2000. we can already say that it is only on the basis of the views presented by the commission that we can assess the overall staffing needs. in the early stages of olaf's activities, it is necessary to give value to qualitative features. in the matter of pension funds, which parliament has stressed, we must await the commission's report covering in particular the reform of the staff regulations and other concrete proposals. the reform proposed by parliament is so extensive as regards bat that it may not yet be ready for implementation in the 2000 budget. the financing of activities in kosovo and of other external actions is a challenge for the union, both from the budgetary and financing point of view. it should be noted that the immediate financing needs of the kosovo region were considered to be largely covered. this was noted at the first donor conference in july. the budgetary authorities should therefore now await the final assessments of needs which, in my view, should not be reliably met until next year. the council, for its part, undertook to meet the financing needs caused by the earthquake in turkey by means of a loan from the european investment bank, macrofinancial assistance and funds from the meda programme. thus, separate funding for turkey may not be necessary. as far as east timor is concerned, aid has already been channelled through the echo programme. the donor conference for east timor will be held in november, so that more precise assessments can only be made later. as i said earlier, kosovo has become the most important item in the budgetary procedure for the year 2000. that is why the council has shown flexibility in its own way of acting, and that is why appropriations have been readjusted in the draft budget for the reconstruction of kosovo. it would seem appropriate to further adjust the humanitarian aid appropriations, particularly because a large proportion of the refugees have already returned to kosovo and humanitarian aid in kosovo appears to be, on the road to reconstruction and to some extent, the first step in providing people with winter shelter. as regards the appropriations allocated to other budget items, which relate to the 'external actions' of section 4 of the financial perspective, a flat-rate reduction makes it possible to prevent hasty decisions to control the maximum rate of this category, because, as i said, the estimates of the real needs for reconstruction have not yet been provided. as regards parliament's concern about the possible consequences of the readjustment of appropriations in category 4, of the aid provided by the union to the least developed countries, it should be borne in mind that, in accordance with the general agreement of lomé, the european development fund finances eu aid to a large number of these countries. the european development fund is not included in the general budget of the european union, but the member states participate directly in its financing and the edf has its own internal financing rules. the reallocation of resources for the reconstruction of kosovo has therefore not had any influence on the european development fund. sub-category b7 of the budget is only partly allocated to the poorest states and thus a flat-rate reduction is detrimental to more than just the poorest states. the budgetary council meeting on 16 july reviewed the re-adjustment of appropriations for kosovo and found that the commission should not burden the least developed states and the poorest groups, and reiterated the commission's commitment to the international development strategy aimed at halving world poverty by 2015. i have noted that the european parliament also intends to propose appropriations above the maximum rate of section 4 of the financial perspective to use the funds to finance activities in east timor and turkey and to adopt a new fisheries agreement with morocco. i would like to make the following comments on this: the council is very concerned about the situation in east timor, but so far no precise estimate has been given of the amount of aid needed. the earthquake in turkey requires our assistance already this year. such assistance was voted in supplementary amending budget no 4/1999. however, it is too early to determine the overall amount of assistance appropriations needed for the year 2000. the appropriations for financing external action in east timor and turkey should also be found within the framework of the maximum rate in section 4 of the financial perspective defined in berlin. the council has also just accepted that the commission should be authorized to negotiate the fisheries agreement with morocco. the final outcome of these negotiations is not yet known. however, i would remind you that in accepting the draft budget the council also readjusted certain appropriations in category 4 to make a provision for the necessary resources required by the new agreement. finally, i would like to briefly examine the growth of the budget and the overall framework for budgetary preparation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the corresponding figure in the council's draft budget is 2.8%. we are responsible to the european taxpayers. it should be clear that budgetary discipline and cost-efficiency requirements must be respected in union expenditure. the union's budget must follow the strict line followed in the budgets of the member states. i stressed at the beginning the need for the budgetary authorities to react quickly in rapidly changing circumstances. i believe that the new interinstitutional agreement contains sufficient means to meet unforeseeable needs. the spirit of the new agreement is clear: no more money can be requested than the overall amount of the initial financial framework for assistance. let this also serve as a basis for the adoption of the 2000 budget. i believe that with the proper cooperation of the institutions we will successfully bring the draft budget for the year 2000 to a successful conclusion. i thank the president and the members of parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the reflection of a political programme expressed in figures; this is the usual way of concisely summarizing the meaning of the draft budget. however, many decisions are taken at european level which are not directly included in the budget of the european union. however, the 2000 budget is a decisive basis for many areas of european policy in the coming year. since the draft budget was drawn up in the spring, important events have taken place which were not foreseeable at that time but which will and must be reflected in the 2000 budget. the most important point is this: this year we have had to endure a war on european soil, a war which was provoked by the most serious human rights violations and the policy of expulsion and ethnic cleansing of the milosevic regime - a policy unacceptable to a democratic europe and an international community which respects human rights. we cannot tolerate a policy of expulsion and even massacre of minorities in europe at the end of the 20th century. the european union has committed itself to financing the reconstruction of kosovo. it is not just about rebuilding bridges, schools, technical infrastructure in kosovo. it is generally about rebuilding a democratic and free civil society in the region. and i am glad that there is a perfect consensus between parliament, the council and the commission to get the necessary funds for this reconstruction out of the eu budget. i think it is worth stressing that we are all aware of our responsibilities and that we are all in favour of the commitment to finance the reconstruction of kosovo. the commission's preliminary draft budget adopted in april this year provides for a total of eur 92.8 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 89.6 billion in payment appropriations to be implemented next year. however, as has been said, this preliminary draft budget of the commission does not yet take account of kosovo, east timor, turkey and the fisheries agreement with morocco. the council's draft budget amounts to eur 92.4 billion for commitment appropriations and eur 87.9 billion for payment appropriations. the amendments adopted by the committee on budgets of the european parliament amount to eur 93.4 billion for commitment appropriations and eur 90.8 billion for payment appropriations. in addition, there are funds for kosovo, east timor, turkey and the fisheries agreement. i would add that there is also €15 million to be financed in the 2000 budget, which is a contribution from the european union to the initiative on debt cancellation for the poorest countries, to be financed directly from the budget and not from the development fund. i have quoted these aggregate amounts for four reasons. firstly, these three projects, the commission's preliminary draft, the council's draft and parliament's draft, contain expenditure for the year 2000 in excess of the amounts for that year. the reason - and it must be stressed - is that the necessary payments, for example in the field of structural policy, will increase next year because of commitments made in previous years. the commission fully agrees with parliament and does not accept to allocate amounts less than the commitments require. that would be a very unrealistic policy. secondly, the estimates of commitments which may be renewed in the three projects are, on the other hand, well below the amounts corresponding to this year, although the estimates of preaccession aid, i.e. the appropriations granted to the applicant countries, are marked by a sharp increase. this clearly means - and this is my response to the council's intervention - that not only will the member states be obliged to comply with budgetary discipline but that it will also be applied at european level. thirdly, the overall figures show that there are still wide differences between the various approaches to budgetary evaluations, particularly between the council's and parliament's approaches, and that this will require intensive negotiations in the coming weeks. fourthly, the overall amounts also constitute an index of the work done by the committees and in particular by the rapporteurs. i would therefore like to express my sincere thanks on behalf of the commission to mr virrankoski for his report on the drafts by parliament, the council, the court of auditors, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, and to mr pittella for his report on the draft ecsc operating budget. i would like to thank mr bourlanges in particular for his report, which once again proves that he is an excellent rapporteur and a master of sophisticated proposals. in addition to the amount of budgetary assessments, the report addresses important issues concerning budgetary management and administration. i would like to raise the issue of bat and the question of when external offices should be called in for help. mr bourlanges, you rightly point out that it is not just a question of better controls or better contracts - these are also important questions - but also the fundamental question: what can the public administration do and what can private companies do and under what conditions? this question, of course, affects the entire staff of the commission. the new commission was able to cover its staff requirements for the newly established directorates-general through restructuring. however, the level of overall staff requirements depends only on the institutional reforms for which the commission will present a blueprint, a proposal, in february. i hope that in the coming weeks we will be able to bring the proposals in the report into line with the commission's timetable for reform. as regards olaf staff, the commission will include in its letter of amendment the proposal of the committee on budgetary control and the committee on budgets to provide for 75 new posts for next year. i should like to speak briefly about agriculture. the commission fully agrees with parliament that the second pillar, measures for rural development, offers a great deal of potential, particularly for agri-environmental development. that is why it will propose in its letter of amendment a substantially revised upward valuation, albeit one which is lower than that of parliament. the commission will also take account of the request to include appropriations in the budget for the fisheries agreement with morocco. as regards the financing of the reconstruction of kosovo - we all agree on this - eur 500 million in commitment appropriations should be guaranteed in the 2000 budget. the council decided at first reading to make a linear reduction in the evaluations for external actions. ladies and gentlemen, you, as a parliament, have described this decision as irresponsible. the commission has asked me to inform you that it intends to propose an alternative which takes account of both the concern to establish political priorities and budgetary discipline. the commission proposes to finance the necessary appropriations by transferring appropriations within the heading for external actions, then by using a reduced part of the flexibility reserve and, thirdly, by a new allocation between policy areas, which entails a change in the financial perspective. this method was adopted in the interinstitutional agreement concluded in may of this year between parliament, the council and the commission. i think that the european taxpayers would not understand that we are asking for additional appropriations to finance the missions to be carried out in kosovo without going through the difficult process of setting priorities, namely the reallocation of appropriations. on the other hand, the increasing number of european union missions in the field of foreign policy must also be reflected in the structure of the budget. the budget must be an expression of the political missions and priorities, which means, in general, an increase in the appropriations for external action. on the basis of the preparatory work carried out by all the institutions and in particular the parliamentary reports under consideration, i hope that we will reach, through an open negotiation process, a consensus on the 2000 budget which is commensurate with the high political responsibilities which european policy is endowed with. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - mr president, allow me to extend our congratulations to the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, and to the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr wynn, on the way the proceedings have been conducted. unfortunately, i cannot say the same for the council in the role it has played in this process. the message that the foreign affairs committee has received from the council is that, in its view, the only way to pay for kosovo is to take money out of the hands of those who are in an even worse situation than in kosovo. we want to rob the very poor to give money to those who are a little less. we want africa to pay for the balkans. i do not think that is the kind of message the european union should be sending to the rest of the world. in order to raise the eur 500 million needed for kosovo, the council proposed a linear reduction of 10% for the whole of heading 4. some cuts are even more severe. for example, for humanitarian aid, heading b7-21, the council proposes a reduction of 20%. it reduces the obnova line by eur 70 million: in other words, it reduces aid to bosnia by 40%, so that bosnia has to pay for kosovo. we are reducing support for the middle east peace process at the very moment when we see the hope of a long-term solution. what kind of political message can the european union send by doing this? of course we must be financially responsible and we must set priorities, but a linear 10% cut is not the right way to set priorities. it's indifferent and irresponsible. it is no wonder that at this moment the citizens do not have a very high opinion of the european union. the committee on foreign affairs would like to draw your attention to two other points. firstly, we would like the royaumont process to be properly staffed and, in particular, to be made a first pillar activity and not a second pillar activity. we therefore propose to create a line under the stability pact and to finance it by cutting part of the meda line. secondly, we also ask for your support for the conflict prevention network set up as a result of the efforts of parliament, and in particular mr rocard. now that a similar body exists within the council, its work is even more important. i therefore call on your support to provide sufficient funds for his care. i ask you: financial prudence must not be used as an excuse to drive more people into poverty.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, i would like to thank the committee on budgets and mr bourlanges for their work. i thank them for their commitment to the fight against fraud in the european union, and in particular for this new effort: an additional allocation of eur 9 million has been voted by the committee on budgets for olaf, which will allow the creation of 50 to 75 new posts in the course of the year 2000, in addition to the 30 new posts already provided for in the supplementary and amending budgets. i would remind you that olaf needs 300 posts to carry out its task, as confirmed by the report of the committee of independent experts. let us not forget that olaf has a role to play in shaping public opinion on the reform of the european institutions. it is essential that this body be adequately resourced. let me remind the commission that we will not allow olaf's independence to be compromised by budgetary advantages: i announce the colour for the future. i am disappointed that the presidency of the council has not mentioned this. is he in favour of the 75 new posts or not ? i would be grateful if you could give me some information on this. the council must be as determined to fight fraud as we are in this parliament. another matter of interest to the committee on budgetary control is the question of technical assistance offices. in its budgetary guidelines for the year 2000, parliament called for the gradual dismantling of bat. it also asked the commission to provide it with an estimate of its manpower needs. it has not been done. the committee on budgets has put expenditure on logistical support and technical assistance in a separate section, with 90% of the corresponding appropriations in reserve, an approach which the committee on budgetary control supports. it is quite normal to block these appropriations until the commission has defined the categories of work to be outsourced. we expect the commission to provide us with the necessary information. to change the subject, the appropriations foreseen under the community initiatives, the cohesion fund and many other sectors were largely underused in 1999. in some cases, this is the second or third consecutive year of large transfers from particular lines. this shows that parliament must monitor the implementation of the budget more closely throughout the year. the committees concerned must take on more responsibility for the control of budget lines in the sectors concerned. this will enable us to take account of them in the budgetary procedure and ensure that we are better informed throughout the year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, i have taken over from mr desama, the rapporteur originally appointed to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, following the heart attack he suffered. we hope he will soon be back with us. i would like to thank and congratulate mr bourlanges for the diligent work he has done on behalf of members of the european parliament. the committee on industry is concerned with 120 budget lines: that gives you an idea of the complexity of our task. we cover energy programmes, industrial programmes, including small and medium-sized enterprises, research programmes under the framework programme, which account for about 60% of the european union's internal policy expenditure, and trade and technical assistance lines. on energy and related lines, we regretted that the committee on budgets did not follow us in increasing expenditure on the altener and save programmes. these are renewable energy and energy efficiency programmes which are currently being reconciled. if, as we hope, we get an increase as a result of the conciliation, we will naturally ask for an increase in the amounts for next year. as far as research is concerned, after many long discussions with mr bourlanges, i would be curious to know what he intends to do. the members of the industry committee do not want research programmes to be divided up into several dozen lines, in fact one per key action. instead, we want to be able to control every key action. i think we have reached an agreement with the commission, an agreement that the information will be provided to us at a pace and in a form that will enable us to monitor expenditure in the way we want. i also regret that the committee on budgets did not agree to make the training of nuclear experts in the countries of the former soviet union a policy area of energy rather than a foreign policy area, which would have made it possible to carry out this training much more effectively. this is an argument we have already made very clearly and we will make it again. as regards monitoring, we intend to appoint a member of our committee to be responsible for monitoring each of the 120 lines. these officials will have to monitor expenditure trends, examine how projects are organised and visit projects; they should be able to inform us of the progress of events.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - mr president, allow me to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgets, and the rapporteur on the budget in particular, for our good cooperation at first reading. that is another way of saying that the committee on employment and social affairs got a good deal of what it asked for at first reading and i am grateful to them for that. other speakers have already referred to the structural funds. on the whole, we are pleased to see that the committee on budgets has agreed to our recommendations. i would therefore like to concentrate on certain subheadings of the lines. one of the most important for the committee on employment is the one on social dialogue. we are now at 4.5 million euros more than the european commission originally proposed. i think that best reflects the tasks we face in this important area. in addition, the line in question provides for the participation of representatives of the central and eastern european countries which are candidates for accession, which i think is very important. on line b3-4003, we have got less than we asked for, which is disappointing because we are touching on an important area with the expected implementation of the european company statute and, we hope, progress on the general framework for information and consultation on expenditure. we are pleased to see that our request on ngos has been accepted at first reading. we believe that this is a very important aspect: i am talking about the development of civil dialogue. i am particularly pleased with the continued funding for the ngo platform, which i believe is making a major contribution to the development of civil dialogue. the employment question is obviously one of the most important issues for the employment committee. in this respect, with budget lines b5-502 and b5-503, we have raised some eur 24 million more than the commission's initial proposals. we think that's a great result. we intend to implement the employment chapter of the amsterdam treaty and to make progress on the macroeconomic dialogue agreed in cologne. we are therefore grateful to have the funds to advance these two important areas. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to mention two small problems. the first is that we still have no lasting legal basis for ngos. i hope that the commission and the council will make progress in this respect, otherwise the civil dialogue will end at the end of next year, which would be catastrophic. the second problem concerns technical assistance and the funds that have been set aside. i hope that the commissioner responsible for social affairs will act quickly to provide the information needed to release 50% of these funds at second reading.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the committee on budgets on the work he has done this year. i also thank mr wynn for the enthusiasm with which he chairs the committee on budgets, which is a new experience for me. the rapporteur has done very well, given the constraints he has had to face this year. while the budget lines for which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is responsible are not very large, they are nonetheless essential to facilitate the development of union policies, in particular to bring union citizens closer together and to meet their needs and aspirations. the rapporteur for the committee on budgets accepted several points we had raised; it has enabled us to maintain expenditure in most sectors and even to increase it slightly in one or two. i cannot extend this thanks to the council when i analyse its apb. it must give greater priority to the interests and needs of its citizens. the budget lines for consumer protection, with the amounts determined last year following the conciliation on the whitehead report, will continue to serve to build public confidence, showing that we are not only a europe of business, but also defend the rights of citizens as consumers. the additional funding for the creation of new posts at the veterinary health office in dublin will give citizens the reassurance that we are taking steps to protect the quality and safety of the food on their plates. the new health powers provided for in the amsterdam treaty will be exploited through the additional appropriations entered in the budget line for health. i particularly welcome the opportunity to develop new strategies for treating mental health problems and neurodegenerative diseases, such as alzheimer's and creutzfeldt-jakob disease. in the same way, as the deadline for the fifth environmental action plan approaches, we can only welcome the availability of funds to start the development of the sixth action plan. if i have a disappointment to express, it is the rapporteur's attitude towards the various union agencies set up by the commission. i am the only rapporteur, with mr bourlanges, who has met the representatives of these agencies. i must say that i have heard convincing arguments for an increase in the funds available to these agencies for their work with the applicant countries of central and eastern europe and for their work in relation to the introduction of orphan medicines, which are essential for a relatively small number of people suffering from difficult to treat diseases. i think that perhaps more attention could have been paid to their arguments. i am very disappointed that the rapporteur from the committee on budgets has not accepted their validity as i have. it is hoped that in the coming years we will be able to tackle the problems raised by these agencies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - mr president, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, i should like to express my sincere support for the approach of the rapporteur-general, mr bourlanges. i would particularly like to thank him for the care he has taken in consulting my committee in recent months, and our predecessors last year. my committee has put forward five budgetary priorities: objective 1, objective 2, interreg, transport safety and sustainable mobility. i shall first speak about the priorities of regional policy. i agree with the general rapporteur that the cuts in the appropriations for the structural funds are totally unacceptable. what are the cuts proposed by the council? the council proposes to reduce payment appropriations by eur 433 million for objective 1, eur 95 million for objective 2 and eur 33 million for interreg. this parliament had enthusiastically supported the structural fund programmes provided for in agenda 2000. we hope that the new structural fund programmes will get off to a good start next year, which will simply not be possible if these cuts are implemented. the council supports the idea of reducing advance payments to new programmes to only 3.5%, whereas parliament has previously considered increasing advance payments to more than 10% of the total amount during the commitment of a first instalment. we believe that if these cuts are accepted, regional renewal will be in danger. existing programmes will be blocked before they can even be transformed into new programmes. the momentum will be broken and, inevitably, it will be the poorest communities in the poorest regions that will suffer the most. the main result is that no new jobs will be created and existing jobs will be threatened. my committee has proposed that these three budget lines be restored to the precise level of the preliminary draft budget. this increase of eur 561 million in the appropriations for the structural funds will enable us to honour the commitments that have been made and to ensure that the new agenda 2000 programmes get off to a good start. we also support the proposal to set aside 20% pending the successful outcome of our discussions on the guidelines. with your permission, i now turn briefly to transport to tell members that i hope they will be able to support the proposals of the committee on budgets to reinstate the 1999 allocation for the line on transport safety and the line on sustainable mobility. in conclusion, i would like to thank all my colleagues in the committee on regional policy for their support throughout this budgetary procedure.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. - mr president, this is the third time i have been asked to be rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport. the task is not easy, there is never enough money, but i prefer it to that of general rapporteur on the budget. i would like to thank mr bourlanges for his support for the committee on culture. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our main programme in the field of education, socrates, and our programmes for youth and culture have been effectively cut by the council of ministers. i would say that the 238 million proposed for socrates is simply not enough to do a good job. last week i met with the members of the committee of vice-presidents of british universities. they told me that no one - student or university - participated in socrates for money. they do so because they have faith in europe and want to make the single market work. however, we must ask ourselves whether the figures are not now so low that the objectives are becoming unrealistic. i hope that the conciliation meeting tomorrow will recognize the need to give greater priority to european students and to increase funding. our share of the budget amounts to a total of about 600 million euros, which is apparently a considerable sum, but it is less if you divide it by 370 million citizens: it is in fact less than 1% of the budget, so it cannot be said to be a bottomless pit. in the year 2000, the eu will spend less than 2 euros per citizen on education, on encouraging young people to participate in exchange programmes or to learn other languages and to become familiar with other cultures, on informing its citizens about future developments in the union and also on supporting our audiovisual industry. of this meagre sum of two euros, less than 20 cents will be used to promote europe's cultural heritage. the demand for the new millennium must be one euro per head for european culture. we are currently engaged in a policy of limited memorial inscriptions and token expenditure. and even then, we still end up not doing things right. i am not saying this to target any particular official, but i have received too many complaints from prestigious organisations such as the eu youth orchestra, the european youth parliament, the yehudi menuhin foundation: very well-known organisations that are doing a wonderful job for europe and our young people. none of these organisations covered by budget lines a-3021 or b3-2005 received a single euro in 1999 for their funding. could we make the first year of the new millennium the one where our systems are working well? mr prodi, mrs reding, mrs schreyer, we are counting on you to make things better next year. in closing, i'll tell you a story. i live in a small village in hampshire with a population of 2,500. my wife is the chair of the city council. i asked him what the budget was for cultural, sports and social activities in the village. they spend 50,000 euros on it, or 20 euros per head. so if someone comes to me for european support, i will tell them that they have a better chance of getting realistic support from their village council than from the european union.
- mr president, like the previous speakers, i too would like to thank the rapporteurs and in particular mr bourlanges. in his introductory remarks, he set the tone for the outlook for the 2000 budget by summing up the situation as follows: more programmes, more partners and less money. there seems to be a contradiction here which in the longer term, when the time comes for enlargement, when the time comes for a new intergovernmental conference, we will undoubtedly have to resolve in the framework of our budgetary procedures. i would like to concentrate on three aspects of the management of european policies and on the positions taken by our parliament in relation to them in previous years. more specifically, it concerns the management of the commission. we as a parliament want to be sure that those who elected us are convinced of the proper functioning of the responsibility for this management and we want to be sure that we get our money's worth from the way the programmes are managed. the first aspect is internal policy: it is information policy. in the last parliament we wanted to ensure that interinstitutional cooperation worked properly. we have indeed made progress in this respect by ensuring that there is good cooperation on both sides, both in terms of general information and more specific campaigns. however, we have not succeeded in giving this interinstitutional cooperation a common framework, as parliament had hoped. we are interested in the first changes that the commission is making to its information structures and parliament intends to follow these things closely. in particular, the previous parliament, like previous parliaments, had asked for close cooperation between the commission and parliament's representations in the member states. i have tabled, our group has tabled an amendment, to obtain a report from the commission on the development of the situation in this respect. there are still one or two countries where the structures of the commission and parliament are separate and we must be particularly attentive to cases where more than 75 or even 80 per cent of the appropriations go to payroll or buildings, instead of funding adequate information policies. the second aspect concerns foreign policy. as regards kosovo in particular, the hearing we held a few days ago with the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets made me understand a lot of things, including that this is not a short-term commitment. the testimony of mr bildt, mr kouchner, mr hombach and then of all the other agencies concerned showed us that we were facing a long-term problem with kosovo. we must therefore not only ensure that there is a proper degree of coherence between the various agencies on the ground, but also, madam president-in-office of the council, that we do not take decisions which lead us to spend money lightly because of a council decision which involves the displacement of people over 150 kilometres. we must ensure that when we look at mrs pack's report later this week we are making the right decisions and that the council understands parliament's feelings in this respect. as far as the longer term is concerned, we must be able to see ahead and, as you said, madam commissioner, we must put the building of civil society in a longer term perspective and not simply consider it as a short-term project. kosovo and stability in the balkans must be seen in a long-term perspective. it is up to us europeans to take on this responsibility. we cannot expect others to do it for us. that is why i welcome the idea of a working committee between the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets. we must not only ensure that our funds are used properly, but also that our ideas are coordinated. thirdly, the administration and the technical assistance offices. i will remind you of what mr böge said to the council. the council was absent from the discharge debate. it has been a nonchalant process through the 1996 and 1997 discharge procedures, leaving it to us in parliament to stress the need for change at every stage. that is why, when it comes to eu reform, we feel entitled as a parliament to say that we do not want to see any more new posts created until we know what they are for. what are the commission's real needs? secondly, we are right to say that technical assistance offices should not have to use temporary staff to carry out some of the tasks for which permanent posts have been allocated to the commission. we must find a way to conduct a dialogue between the institutions over the next 12 months, with the objectives of actually implementing the reforms and designing adequate criteria to optimise investment in staff. otherwise, and i will end on this proposal, we will have to start cutting back on programmes if we do not have the human resources to manage them, because it is ultimately up to us to ensure that they are carried out and that we get our money's worth.
- mr president, i speak on behalf of the socialist group on the virrankoski report. first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur on his very good approach and say that, on the whole, the socialist group agrees with the points he raises. on the staffing side, which concerns all the institutions, we believe that a balance must be struck between financial prudence and the ability of the institutions to do their job properly. as we have just heard, there is a danger that the institutions will take on new tasks for which they cannot devote the necessary staff. mr virrankoski has almost achieved that balance. we would have liked him to be a little more generous with parliament in terms of human resources. as regards section i - european parliament - of the budget, i would first of all say that we welcome the development of relations between the bureau and the committee on budgets. since i'm sitting on both, maybe i could say a little more. in fact, the way in which the bureau and the committee on budgets have joined forces to reach a compromise on parliament's budget has been very constructive. i shall confine my remarks to three points on parliament's budget. the first concerns the status of members of parliament. the idea had been put forward of providing for an endowment for the line relating to the status of members, an idea which the socialists rejected. we did not in any way want to undermine the very principle of this statute - we have indicated in our comments that we are strongly in favour of it - but rather to express our conviction that it is now up to the council to react to parliament's proposals in this area. the same is true of political parties. the socialist group is fully in favour of the principle of european political parties. but you simply cannot fund the corresponding line without having an idea of who will be entitled to that money, what it will be used for, and so on. parliament has produced an excellent report on this subject - the tsatsos report. it is now up to the commission to put forward a proposal on how to proceed with the implementation of this principle of a european political party. when that is done, i repeat, the socialists will be happy to take part in the negotiations on the allocation of the corresponding line. the third point concerns the regional offices, in which you and i, mr president, may have a personal interest. last night the bureau of parliament decided that the cities of edinburgh, marseilles, milan, munich and barcelona should all have a regional office. we have allocated funds in the reserve budget. when we come to second reading, i hope we can get this money out of the reserve and move on to the actual setting up of regional offices. they are essential to parliament's strategy of bringing it closer to the citizens. the only budget other than that of parliament which i would like to mention briefly is that of the court of justice. i think, as i'm sure many others in this chamber do, that a delay in justice is often tantamount to a denial of justice. it is clear that the court of justice has not had at its disposal the resources necessary to fulfil its obligations properly. the council has made a small gesture with regard to the court's staff. parliament wants to go further. i hope we will support the rapporteur's proposal in this respect. the court has major problems with delays in interpretation and translation. we should do everything in our power to remedy it. that is precisely what the virrankoski report is aiming at. i should like to say a few words about the bourlanges report, which is not within my sphere of competence. i would like to express my support for mr bourlanges' approach to the 2000 budget. it is perfectly right to reject the 10% linear reduction which affects all lines of development. it is true, as the council says, that some of the development lines have not been used properly. it is true that for some of them the use of appropriations is insufficient. however, the solution of simply cutting all of them off by 10% is quite simple. the council must prepare a more detailed proposal for the second reading. for the time being, the rapporteur is absolutely right: until the council has a more elaborate solution to offer us, new appropriations must be made available to deal with situations such as east timor, kosovo and other emergency situations such as turkey. to return to mr elles's last remark on technical assistance offices, this is a subject which the council has once again ignored. however, bat was at the heart of the problem raised by the santer commission. what mr bourlanges says in his report on this subject is quite right, and he can count on the full support of the socialists in this respect too.
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, tradition dictates that we congratulate and thank the rapporteurs, who are three, let us not forget, and that is what i will do as chairman of the committee on budgets. firstly, there is mr virrankoski, who has done a thorough job. mr virrankoski joined this post in the middle of the year and his attitude has been exemplary, he truly deserves the congratulations of the whole of parliament and not just the committee on budgets. mr pittella, who joined the committee on budgets as a new member, has done a good job on the phasing-in of the ecsc budget. the approach is quite bold and should be commended. since we are at the point of congratulations, i should also like to congratulate the commissioner on her politically realistic speech. good work, commissioner! that said, my main congratulations go to mr bourlanges. at the beginning of his speech mr bourlanges said that this was the first time he had been given 15 minutes in this house and my first thought was that it would not be too much. it is now clear that this was not enough: mr bourlanges had overstayed his speaking time by almost a minute and had not yet said half of what he intended to say. mr bourlanges, i commend you on your approach to the budget. we can honestly say that the time never seemed too long to us. you have shown pragmatism, imagination and, most importantly, seriousness, particularly in your attitude towards bat. you deserve the nickname "batman bourlanges", although i can't imagine you in a cape and a mask, wearing underwear over tights. you did a great job with the helpdesks. this first reading is dominated by the joint amendment to the fisheries agreement with morocco, east timor and turkey, which the rapporteur has mentioned. i want to make this clear to the council and to a lesser extent to the commission because i think they have understood that we take the interinstitutional agreement very seriously. there are forces in this parliament that would like nothing more than to see it disappear tomorrow, but as far as i am concerned, my job - and that of parliament itself - is to defend the agreement we reached earlier this year. we have shown that we are ready to do so. if that were not our intention, the category 3 ceiling would have been exceeded. the three institutions have a problem with the amount deemed necessary for lines covered by codecision, such as socrates, and this problem is not just for the year 2000 but is permanent. let me say to both the presidency and the commission that we must work together to remedy this quickly. the amendment on category 4 should not simply be seen as an exercise in parliament's muscle. i would also like to add that this is not a threat, although it may seem to contradict what i am about to say. i certainly do not want the council to see this as a threat. we do not want the council to think that we are imagining that we have got it "through the balkans" so to speak; our goal is not to squeeze him like a lemon and i recognize that the expression may be clumsy. this amendment should be seen as an invitation for our two institutions to sit down together to find a solution. that is what we must strive for, madam president-in-office. we are waiting for the proposal that the commission is to submit to us next week and, in the light of what mrs schreyer has said, i am looking forward to it. i hope the council can do the same. however, i would like to point out to the council that this is not like the grand duke of york leading his troops up the hill and then bringing them down. it is not just a show of force by parliament and, in the end, by the member states, who will put pressure on meps whose parties are in government to change our minds. that is not how things work with the majorities in this parliament today. if we fail to reach agreement on the revision of the financial perspective in particular, i am absolutely certain that article 272 will be invoked. there is no doubt about that and the council would do well to see that for itself. that's not a threat, that's a statement of intent. let me remind you of the philosophy of two of my predecessors: von der vring and samland. i want the council to get this message. if we are fighting, it is to defend the rights of parliament and not for money. it is a question of parliament's rights: this is the message that we must try to convey to the council again and again. once the council has understood this, i am sure that the discussions we will have will bear fruit. i am aware of the political constraints on member states; none of us takes lightly the requirements of profitability and rigor, as you say. we must comply with it ourselves, but in this case, after what parliament has been fighting for for years, the requested revision of the interinstitutional agreement, a revision of the financial perspective as it appears in the interinstitutional agreement, is extremely important for parliament. i hope you understand that.
- mr president, this is my first budget. i would like to begin by thanking mr wynn and mr bourlanges, and the other two rapporteurs, for helping me to understand a very complex procedure. i think the european union is changing. institutions are realizing that they need to become more representative. it is in this spirit that we must try to bring the european budget closer to the electorate. it is crucial for eu citizens to know what their real share is in eu policies and activities, what they pay for and what this money is used for. greater transparency will be the key to the future success of all european institutions. this means that each budget line must be evaluated in the light of the benefits it brings to the citizens of europe. in view of the commitment of the amsterdam treaty to take account of the interests of consumers in all other areas of community policy and the paltry level of the consumer budget, which is a quarter of a percent of total community expenditure, it is necessary to begin by ensuring that good programmes such as the school milk scheme are preserved. as my colleague mr hyland said before me, that is not what the draft budget does, since it cuts the budget for the milk distribution programme in schools throughout europe by 50%. such a cut is a draconian measure for a programme that benefits both the consumer and the producer. i am so interested in this particular budget line because it has an effect on health in the short and long term, it touches on the area of social poverty and it influences economic life and employment in my region. i have no problem with the reform of the cap as long as it means cheaper and healthier products for consumers. i know that citizens are worried about having to contribute to subsidies which end up raising the prices they pay as consumers. the commission's initial response to me in the committee on budgets was rather disappointing. she told me that the social aspects were not part of the original programme. but it now appears that, following the trilogue last week, the commission intends to propose an increase of eur 31 million. i'm glad you did. i must say that i am disappointed that the council is not present, because i would like to know whether it will support this proposal. the people outside do not care about the details of the financing: which line, which heading. what they care about is the impact and the benefits of programs like this. i fully recognize the need to streamline and improve the management of this and other programmes, such as better return on investment. however, if the amendments are to be effective, it would be necessary to review the desirable improvements and to provide an implementation strategy for the future. the commission, when assessing expenditure, should consider the financing as a whole. i call on members to support this position and the corresponding amendment in the vote on thursday.
the rapporteur. - i am honoured to have been chosen as rapporteur for this important report. the european parliament is called upon for the first time to give its opinion on the progress of the european central bank and it is in this context that i have the pleasant duty to congratulate the ecb and its president, mr duisenberg, on the successes achieved so far. the launch of the euro is in itself a truly historic moment in the life of an extraordinary company. it is a considerable technical achievement and the many officials involved deserve our thanks and congratulations. it would certainly still be a little premature to make a judgment on the results of the ecb's mandate, but we can already point out here today many positive signs, one of the most important being that investors are willing to lend their money to the euro zone governments at very low interest rates. this is a real vote of confidence that the ecb will continue to guarantee price stability and will not allow the erosion of the economies of the citizens by inflation. it is in this context of general support for the objectives of the european central bank and of praise for what it has achieved so far that my remarks should be made. the ecb can only continue to receive the same support in all circumstances, good or bad, if it is transparent about how it takes its decisions. it will still be able to achieve its objective of price stability, but without this openness no one will know whether it was achieved by tactics, and can therefore be repeated, or by a happy accident, this time resulting in the need to improve the bank's working methods. the committee was struck by the fact that other central banks had moved more rapidly towards greater transparency in recent years. the federal reserve, the bank of japan, the riksbank of sweden and the bank of england publish all the votes, including the names of the members who voted for or against, in the committee responsible for interest rates. they all publish forecasts, they all give information about the nature of the debates within their board of governors. in view of these various objective measures of transparency, the ecb is lagging behind the usual international practices. the commission therefore proposes, first, that the ecb publish a concise account of the various views expressed for and against the proposed monetary actions. the commission proposes that the ecb publish forecasts of economic developments in the euro area every six months. the remarks made by mr duisenberg before us today are particularly welcome in this respect, as he has promised to do so within the next year. thirdly, it proposes that the ecb publish regularly an overview of developments in each of the euro area countries in order to have a positive influence on the development of prices and wages, which, as mr duisenberg rightly pointed out, differs from one member state to another. finally, the economic and monetary committee may request to hear the president following each important monetary decision. all these measures would go a long way towards promoting a culture of transparency. there was no agreement in the committee on economic and monetary affairs on a request for the publication of the votes, as proposed in the amendment tabled today by the liberal group. the feeling was that a young institution should be given time to develop. most members felt that the publication of votes would increase public pressure on members of the governing council to vote in accordance with national interests. the commission also did not support the liberal group's view that it would be useful to publish the ecb's econometric models for the euro area, partly out of fear of misuse. the commission has also rejected the view expressed by the greens in their amendment today, that the price stability mandate should be amended to take account of the difficulties of manufacturers alone in the event of falling prices. the epp amendment, however, contributes to the understanding of the paragraph and deserves, in our view, support. mr president, let me now say a few words on several other points we have raised. first, i would like to thank mr duisenberg again for assuring this house that the process of cooperation between the ecb and the national central banks is now in full swing, even in the event of a serious crisis requiring support for a euro area financial institution. secondly, i would stress the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the ecb should put pressure on member states which are making excessive use of short-term debt, as this poses risks, particularly in the event of a financial crisis. thirdly, we encourage the ecb to play its full role on the international stage as one of the three main pillars of the international monetary system. fourthly, i very much welcome what mr duisenberg has said on this point in the report about the need to reduce the cost of crossborder payments, particularly when it comes to small amounts which are more of a concern to individuals. mr president, if the euro is a great success, as i hope it will be, it will help to revolutionize the european economy. by helping to complete the european single market, it will give european consumers a wider choice of goods and services of higher quality at lower prices and thus encourage a faster rise in living standards. it will create jobs in the expanding industries, which is the only sure guarantee of future prosperity. i am convinced that the ecb will face many challenges in the years ahead, but this does not detract from the pleasure of my observation today: so far the ecb has responded very dynamically to the challenges it has encountered. we can look forward to a future that adds to his recent successes. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, nine months after the launch of the euro, and now that the enthusiasm for its future role as the main international reserve currency has faded due to weak exchange rates, it is not a runaway success. it remains to be seen whether the one-size-fits-all model of interest rates will work in countries like ireland without leading to large tax increases and undermining the popularity of the euro project. in any case, i welcome the objectives and consistency of the huhne report as a basic document for defining the responsibility of the european central bank, on which i would like to say a few words in relation to the issues of transparency and accountability specifically. some may ask why, as a british member of parliament, i wish to intervene in this debate. let me point out that britain and the british conservative party, to which i belong, have never been hostile to the euro as the currency of those member states which actually wish to adopt it. however, since we are all bound by our membership of the single market, a collapse in confidence in the euro would affect us all, whether we are in the economic and monetary union or not. it is therefore vital that the central bank enjoys the confidence of the financial markets. we live in an era of massive capital flows and huge foreign exchange markets. some 300 billion pounds are traded in the city of london every day. a collapse in the credibility of the system, or the sudden conviction that the bank is not in a position to pursue an anti-inflationary policy at any cost, could have serious economic repercussions throughout the union. i believe that only the central bank should, for example, decide on exchange rate guidelines for the euro, if necessary, in order to avoid sending contradictory messages to the financial markets. i also think it is vital to encourage the bank to follow the example of other major central banks, such as the us federal reserve, and to make transparency a key feature of all its activities. i therefore regret that the proposals requiring the bank to publish, after a transitional period of about two years, the names of the members who voted for or against monetary decisions, or to publish the econometric models of the ecb, were rejected at the stage of consideration in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and are not being put to the plenary today. we were also disturbed to learn yesterday that mr issing, the ecb's chief economist, had reportedly said in london that the bank would not publish its economic forecasts for the euro area, thus perpetuating a culture of secrecy. i welcome the clarifications mr duisenberg has made today on this subject. i am sure that any confident central bank would welcome the opportunity for its members to explain the main arguments behind their decisions. this is even more true in the case of the ecb, which does not have the reputation of the powerful bundesbank and could quickly lose the confidence of the financial markets if it hesitates to protect itself through greater transparency. being open to criticism is not a weakness, it's a strength. as a doctor, i know that advances in medicine are often achieved only after thorough questioning and debate of ideas in professional journals. the bank must learn to operate in the same spirit. i also believe that the financial markets and the citizens of the union will expect no less from this new central bank and that parliament should be anxious to have a transparent and accountable european central bank in the near future.
- mr president, mr duisenberg, as we have said on several occasions this evening, we in the european parliament have a central role to play in the field of the single currency insofar as this house is the only space through which the people of europe can make a democratic contribution to the way in which their new currency is managed. we must not be afraid to tackle the thorny problems of the eu's single currency, or we risk disappointing all those who have recently elected us to this parliament. mr duisenberg, i think you are faced with a more or less impossible task. indeed, you must set a rate that can support not only the expanding economies of ireland and spain but also the faltering german economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, no one here doubts the importance of your role, because any national government in euroland is relatively unarmed in the face of such a challenge: reviving a faltering economy. it has no power to set interest rates, no influence on exchange rates and only limited power over public expenditure, which is limited by the stability pact. in addition, if we follow the opinion of many people in this house, governments would have no say in their tax rates either. governments have little left to play and it is not for nothing that it has been said that the euro could lead to stagnation. but we should not be surprised by the limits imposed on the prerogatives of national governments within euroland, because the founders of the single currency have never concealed their intention to create a political union and the united states of europe. i appreciate your frankness, mr duisenberg, when you speak clearly about the enormous political leap made by the countries already joining the euro. however, in my view, anyone who denies the existence of this political plan - which includes the single currency - is either mistaken or dishonest, because the plan is very real. we have had proof of this recently from president prodi, who told us directly that the opportunity we have to unite europe is the greatest since the fall of the roman empire. what mr prodi clearly had in mind was the replacement of an old hegemony by a new one, economic in nature. however, political union is not just the pipe dream of a handful of federalists. when you share a bank account with a neighbour, you are affected by the actions and decisions of the neighbour in terms of spending. it is legitimate to exercise some control over these shares. it is far from an aberration to say that the single currency cannot function properly without stronger political integration and union. this is one of the many reasons why the british conservatives are waging a vigorous campaign to persuade the uk to keep its currency, the pound, and to stay away from the single currency.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture. it is sometimes thought that the abbreviation ngo means "new government organization". but when we look at the work done by echo, we see that these are situations that are the result of wars and crises where communities have been dislocated and where, in short, a social structure needs to be rebuilt. i fully share your view that the members of parliament are obviously important elements, but if we take countries like somalia, sudan, etc., we are bound to take the structures that exist in so-called civil society and try to bring these structures into the civilised world. many people have asked, in the context of our efforts in this area - and not just in relation to echo and humanitarian aid - whether we are not getting ahead of the curve by insisting on a speedy holding of elections. cambodia was an example; angola was another. some feel that too much emphasis has been placed on the rapid organisation of elections and the subsequent creation of formal democratic structures. on the contrary, it has proved useful in many cases; i therefore believe that we should insist on the establishment of formal external democratic structures, and that is where members of parliament will become - once they are established - the main actors, including in civil society. as regards the question of the role of members in what we are doing - and this is another way of looking at it - i would say that the very fact that there is a discussion, a dialogue between the commission and parliament about the policy we have to pursue is the decisive element and that is where we will draw our inspiration from.
- mr president, may i ask the commissioner whether he considers that this assessment risks putting in place structures which really undermine our potential to respond to a crisis as quickly and effectively as he suggests we should? secondly, commissioner, let us take the case of sierra leone as an example. you have made a clear distinction between humanitarian aid and long-term assistance; so, could you explain to me when the first part of your work will take over from the other in the case of sierra leone?
- madam president, this summit was highly significant and it produced a better, less repressive outcome than we expected. let us look at it and be amazed at how much more progress europe has made in reducing the bureaucratic burdens on products and businesses than on citizens. this must now change rapidly. however, parliament is not yet a full partner and that must be our objective for the years ahead. it is unacceptable that the directly elected representatives of the european citizens, despite the emphasis on democracy in the presidency conclusions, should be marginalised in the context of the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice. i would like to say how convinced i am that the voice of parliament is strengthened by the fact that four groups were able to agree on the resolution tabled today. i can only mention a few points, but i would like to speak first of all about refugees. we welcome the reaffirmation of the full and unreserved application of the geneva convention, which is to the credit of the finnish presidency. it is very important that the community asylum system - which should however be a single system and include eu funding - is not based on the lowest common denominator. we must, however, be careful not to stir up racist sentiment and we hope that proposals will be tabled to combat racism on the basis of article 13. some progress has been made in the area of individual rights, but it is not enough. we are pleased that the importance of legislation to give third country nationals legally resident in a country of the union rights as close as possible to those of eu citizens has been reiterated. it's in the emergency department. tangible progress is also needed on the rights of free movement and establishment for union citizens. it is regrettable that nothing was said in tampere about the rights of access to information and documents, whereas transparency was identified as one of the important principles. in the area of access to justice, mutual recognition must be introduced and accompanied by common minimum standards and it would have been good to note some progress on bail rights when a citizen is charged with a criminal offence in a state other than his own. we expect the body responsible for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights - which it would be appropriate to entrust to a representative of this parliament to chair - to produce a document conferring immediate rights on eu citizens and enabling them to assert their rights individually before the european court. it is good to give more broad crossborder powers to government authorities to prosecute criminals but the use of these powers must be subject to the control of the european parliament and the european courts so that civil liberties are entrenched and strongly defended. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i would like to congratulate the council and the commission on the progress made in tampere in a number of areas and i would like to join in the remarks made earlier by my colleague from the liberal democrat group, baroness ludford. i would like to touch on two subjects in the short time i have. the first concerns the position of third-country nationals, those many millions of our fellow citizens who are not citizens of the union but who reside there legally or who have the right to asylum. i welcome some of the progress made in tampere, for example in the area of the granting of comparable rights and the fight against racism and xenophobia. if we are to create an area of freedom, security and justice, we must recognize that these are the people who are most often denied the right to justice. they are still too often associated with crime. the gangs of racist youths that haunt our cities are a source of embarrassment to society but racist police officers are a major danger to society. i welcome legal assistance and better information for citizens on the functioning of legal systems and i recognise that progress could be made in the mutual recognition of judicial decisions. however, we need high common standards of jurisdiction and i hope we will see more efforts in this area. the protection of victims is necessary, as is the right to compensation; but we must also recognize the rights of the accused if we are to live in a decent society. the second topic i would like to raise is that of citizen involvement. the president-in-office praised the efficiency and transparency gains made by tampere. he said this was essential if the union was to win the trust of its citizens. he spoke of 'opening up' the council to public scrutiny and considering further reforms and expressed the hope that the finnish presidency would leave a lasting impression on the union in this area. as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i would suggest to the president-in-office that he should give greater recognition to the role of parliament in matters affecting citizens. parliament could have been invited to a much larger number of working meetings surrounding the tampere summit. the presidency could have sent a representative to our committee to comment on the outcome of this summit. does the presidency recognize the legitimacy of our parliament or does it fear our participation in some way? i have a message for the presidency: relax, come and talk to us. i hope that through our work in the body responsible for drawing up the charter of fundamental rights we will be able to prove to you that the presidency and parliament can do good work together. i hope that in this area where parliament is so often called upon to work directly with the council, we shall see much more effective cooperation between our two institutions. i hope we will move from this somewhat cramped process of government which operates through summits to a government which operates more at the level of work. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, it is clear that the issues discussed in tampere are of great importance to any law-abiding citizen: asylum, immigration, international crime and - not to be underestimated - the murderous drug trade by the disgusting drug lords. like disease, crime knows no boundaries. there is therefore no reason to oppose meetings between heads of state or government, such as the one held in tampere, to discuss these issues. however, caution is in order. many in the uk suspect that these issues and these noble statements are nothing more than a new exercise of power by the eu and its institutions behind the scenes. we have seen this in the past: first, the problem, a problem of high legitimate, public importance, and of great urgency; then, the meeting and finally, the solution. the core of the program is that whatever the problem, the solution is always the same. more power for the eu and its undemocratic institutions. the problems of asylum, immigration and crossborder crime as well as the administration of justice have an impact on the very fundamental issues of human rights and individual civil liberties. we are considering giving even more powers to the eu and to unelected bureaucrats to take control of our freedoms - i am talking about the very body that has brought us the invaluable benefits of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. two full-blown disasters. the british fishermen and farmers are now the martyrs of the irresistible ambition of the european union. so before we even consider transferring more powers to the european union, we should take into account its past activities and failures. fisheries and agriculture have been subjected to its most tried and tested policies, almost to the point of destruction. my dear colleagues, we must forget the theory. forget the noble declarations and look at their implications. if rhetoric were rewarded, the european union would be a formidable global competitor. but when it comes to efficiency, the eu is the last in the class. there is a gaping chasm, an unbridgeable chasm. so, when it comes to freedom, the union is not even able to solve the problem of fisheries or to look after our farmers. why should we trust him with our freedom and our security? much more can be achieved by using existing national institutions and an international organisation... (the president withdrew the floor)
- mr president, everyone, and especially a lawyer like myself, is in favour of justice and civil rights. any eu member state or candidate country should already have systems for protecting its citizens based on its own customary law, case law and legislation. the third pillar is the vital repository of national competences arising from historical development and reflecting the cultural and social specificities of nations. i think that to demolish it at the very moment when it could be of the greatest service would be sad and deeply wrong. as far as the immigration and asylum proposals are concerned, i was the british minister responsible for these matters until 1997. based on this experience, i now believe that at the global level, the uncontrolled movement of people over the next 20 or 30 years, whether it is due to economic or climate issues, represents a colossal challenge to order and democracy. i am certainly in favour of freedom of movement within the eu where there is a legal status but what about the candidate countries and their borders - will they have to take over the protection of the eu, in accordance with the schengen provisions? are we really satisfied with these arrangements and is tampere really addressing these issues? what do our german friends think? what do the voters in yorkshire or brentwood in the uk think? the right to asylum is a precious asset which must not be abused, as is unfortunately very often the case. the 1951 un convention was clear: it must be applied to the letter but must not be replaced or framed by new regulations which, in my view, could only increase confusion. sometimes, if we want to be generous, if we want to be sensible, it's essential that we also be firm. i regret that tampere does not address these issues with sufficient firmness.
- mr president, my group welcomes the publication of the report by mr dehaene, mr simon and mr von weizsäcker, because it clearly and accurately presents the argument for the need for an intergovernmental conference which goes beyond the famous 'three issues left on the table in amsterdam'. we need to address the problem more broadly. the igc will not, however, aim so much at extending the scope of responsibility or the powers of the european union as at initiating structural and institutional reform, which will make the union more open, more efficient, more democratic and more transparent. the igc will be able to function and assume its responsibilities when it is composed of more than 20 member states. the three issues left on the table in amsterdam will be part of the reform package but they will not be the only ones. we are winning the debate on the enlargement of the agenda. however, as mr barnier has pointed out, these three issues alone are not easy to deal with. for example, the extension of qualified majority voting will immediately lead eurosceptics of all stripes and others to say in their respective member states that their country is giving up its right of veto and sovereignty. indeed, one of the largest groups in the epp is of the opinion that qualified majority voting should not be extended. but if they would take a minute to think about it, they would soon realise that their own country, that each country, loses more by the vetoes of other countries than it gains by using its veto in many areas of the european union's responsibility. however, the only three issues which remain on the table in amsterdam, namely the extension of qualified majority voting, the size of the commission and the weighting of votes in the council, do not require changes. changes are needed in the court of justice. how will it function if it is made up of almost thirty members? changes are needed in the size of this parliament if we are to respect the limit of 700 members laid down in the treaties at our express request. something must be done to follow up the conclusions reached by our member states on the necessary integration of the weu and the transfer of its functions, or part of its functions, to the european union. there is also the question of the codification and simplification of the treaties, a question which our parliament was the first to raise on the eve of the amsterdam negotiations. this task has been started in amsterdam but is far from complete. this is also a point raised and emphasized by the dehaene report. the addition of new subjects such as these to the igc does not necessarily complicate it. a broader package of measures could facilitate the conclusion of an agreement and ratification by the member states, but on behalf of my group i can say that we are keen to see parliament working closely with the commission, in the spirit of what mr barnier has just said, so that we can put on the igc table a balanced package of proposals which the commissioner and our representatives can defend at all igc meetings: a package which will enable the union to work when it has more than twenty member states.
- mr president, i welcome this report because it draws our attention to the central question of how the treaties will be revised in the future. we must realise that it will be almost impossible - and certainly unrealistic - to reach agreement between 25 or 30 member states on fundamental sovereignty issues. the main reform therefore concerns article 48 on the amendment of the treaties. we must consolidate the constituent articles of the treaty and have a more flexible, lighter system for amending the treaty in respect of the political chapters. the first reform will be designed to allay citizens' fears about gradual transfers of sovereignty and the second should encourage them to commit themselves more clearly to the political choices we face in brussels and strasbourg. the second essential reform is to remove the right of national veto from the provisions on enhanced cooperation and the third is to grant citizens the right of direct access to the european court of justice.
- mr president, there is a dog that has not yet barked in this debate and i would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that the dehaene report does not deal with the regional component of government in europe at all and merely mentions it incidentally. in this respect, subsidiarity seems to be a concept mentioned in the form but lacking any concrete action and it certainly requires to be redefined in the treaty. the regions and autonomous nations within the member states of the european union, such as spain, the united kingdom and belgium, must have a real place in our system. reform of the council would be a prerequisite. it could adequately differentiate between the executive and legislative roles of this body and, in legislative matters, gradually become similar to a territorial assembly. the committee of the regions, as it is now constituted, is both powerless and completely unrepresentative. are the members of this house aware that luxembourg has six members on the committee of the regions, as opposed to four for scotland? i am not aware of the differences between the east and west of luxembourg but i do know a little about the internal differences in scotland and the principle of representation as it exists is absurd. a committee which is intended to be a counterweight to the regions and nations which make up the member states is dominated by the state system. with enlargement, new members will be coming to this parliament, many of them from former nations that were once part of the union. i think of slovenia, i think of estonia. these are small states, but their representation will automatically be higher than that of the basque country, flanders, scotland and wales. the principles of representation in europe as applied to nations and regions must be reviewed and i am very sorry that the dehaene report said virtually nothing about this. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. i hope that our votes will not be delayed every month by a diatribe about the position of the radical members and other non-attached members. the committee on constitutional affairs has now appointed a rapporteur. the reason for the delay in the appointment was that the representative of the radicals requested the postponement during the meeting of coordinators to agree on the choice of a rapporteur. it was primarily at their request that the postponement took place. it is hypocrisy to go to the very top of the hierarchy and say that the committee on constitutional affairs is taking its time on this matter. however, as far as amendments are concerned, you have exactly the same rights as any other member and you can table an amendment with 32 signatures. if you cannot get 32 signatures to support your position, it is not worth wasting the time of the plenary by voting on this proposal. (applause) i would like to thank
- i now have a list of members who wish to speak. in the interests of political balance, i give the floor to mr madelin, but i will ask the other speakers to refrain from speaking so that we can proceed to the vote.
- thank you, sir. we now move to the vote.
- would the commission like to comment?
- thank you, sir. amendment no 5 had to be declared inadmissible because it was incompatible with the rules on second reading. (the president declared the common position as amended approved)
commission - mr president, i can tell you right away that we approve the amendments.
- madam president, i have been waiting patiently - or rather impatiently - for some time to be able to raise the following point before the vote on the ombudsman. could you explain why, when we have a very expensive and sophisticated electronic voting system, we had to suffer - and i weigh my words carefully - the organized chaos of the previous vote. we have a system with three buttons to vote either for candidate a, candidate b or to abstain. it gives us all the guarantees we need in terms of confidentiality and i know we have used it before in similar circumstances. it would certainly have been quicker and cheaper to use it rather than go through the procedure we have just used. could you explain this decision ? and since i have the floor, madam president, i would like to return to your presidency this morning. you will have heard - because i clearly noticed a presidential frown - that the mobile phone of a member of parliament rang during what i believe was the speech of the prime minister of finland. it was a blatant lack of courtesy towards the prime minister, aggravated in my view by the fact that the said member of parliament answered the call and engaged in a conversation with his interlocutor. what can we do to prevent this in the future? thirdly, since i have the floor and your attention, could you take a position on the fact that some of the officers in the lobby are smoking while on duty? i think that gives a very bad image of this parliament.
in writing. - there is no doubt that e-commerce will be one of the future areas of expansion, as long as consumers feel that they can use the system with confidence. at present, two problems are holding back the development of electronic commerce: the difficulty of verifying the identity of users and consumers and the uncertainty about the extent of the legal constraint on electronic transactions. i welcome the fact that the proposal for a directive gives legal force to digital signatures (by means of authentication) and thus gives them the same legal value as handwritten signatures. increased security of e-commerce within the eu should increase consumer confidence and help eu citizens enjoy this area of activity with greater peace of mind and security.
in writing. - i am very pleased with this smart move to tackle one of the key problems hampering the potential explosion of e-commerce across europe, namely the difficulty of verifying the identity of users and consumers. this latest eu initiative, complementary to other initiatives taken at national level, will help create the regulatory framework for european businesses to be at the forefront of the development of e-commerce services. in short, this e-commerce initiative is excellent from a commercial point of view. uk businesses are already at the forefront of realising the potential of e-commerce in europe. more than 13 million people have access to the internet in britain and e-commerce revenues are expected to reach gbp 10 billion next year. the labour government is also at the forefront of the fight to create an environment in which e-commerce can flourish. we have tabled a bill, considered exemplary throughout europe, to modernise contract law to take account of electronic commerce. we are improving educational standards, promoting lifelong learning and working to ensure that our schools are connected. in fact, by 2002, every school in britain will be connected to the internet. we will also be inaugurating a network of it training centres, or "e-libr@ries" (electronic libraries), across the country. the big cities in my own region, the northwest of england, were founded as a result of a previous great economic revolution, the industrial revolution. information technology will be to the 21st century what iron was to the 19th century. and just as the railways were the communications network that brought about the industrial revolution, the internet will bring about the new knowledge revolution. i want the northwest to be at the forefront of the technology project again. with such ambitious but practical policies, i am confident that we can stimulate the industrious and imaginative nature of the people of the north west and turn the region back into a mine of economic prosperity for britain, europe and the world.
in writing. - i welcome this first annual report by the governor of the european central bank, mr duisenberg. he deserves our praise for the successful establishment of the ecb and the smooth introduction of the euro. for meps like myself, the ecb's annual and monthly publications have proved to be very valuable and of a very high standard. i regret, however, that the ecb does not follow the high standards of transparency and openness set by the bank of england. the bank of england was granted operational independence in may 1997, one of the first acts of the labour government. the minutes of the meetings of its monetary policy committee are now published within a period of about six weeks, including the minutes and explanations of votes. this strengthens the confidence of the markets in its decisions and is an example of transparent management. it is certainly no coincidence that since the courageous decision taken by the labour government in may 1997, britain has enjoyed an unprecedented period of economic stability and has been praised by the oecd. it is also no coincidence that this decision by the labour government was criticized at the time by the ever-fluctuating conservatives, whose record of economic instability and incompetence is unmatched. i would like to see the ecb apply a policy of openness and transparency similar to that of the bank of england. such a policy would include the publication of the minutes of its governing council with explanations of the decisions taken, particularly on interest rates. it would be upsetting for britain to go from being open to being relatively secretive. therefore, if britain were ever to join the euro, the ecb would have to opt for more openness.
- madam president, i thank you and the services, which i realize i am late for lunch. i would like to emphasize my support for the establishment of a european police academy and the increase in europol's powers, provided, of course, that full democratic control is exercised over their activities. i have spoken a lot about this with the public and i think they would welcome an increase in the capacity to act against international crime and organised crime which is increasingly crossing our borders. there are over 100 separate police forces in the european union, over 50 of them in my own member state. their separation weakens their ability to combat a growing and incalculable crime throughout europe. so i predict that the need to enable our police forces to operate beyond their borders will become increasingly evident and urgent.
in writing. - mr president, most of the voters in my constituency were probably unaware that an important meeting of eu governments was taking place in tampere last week to discuss justice and home affairs issues. it is perhaps because the agreements reached are so common sense and so clearly beneficial to ordinary british citizens that even the most europhobic conservatives could not object and could not protest. alongside other measures, eu governments also agreed to create a common area of justice to deal with organised crime, in particular drug trafficking and human trafficking. crossborder police cooperation will now be increased, including - following a suggestion from the uk - the creation of a task force of police chiefs and a european police academy. there will also be greater crossborder judicial cooperation including mutual recognition of court decisions across eu countries. accelerated extradition procedures will be introduced, which could even help bring former dictators to justice. in addition, measures were agreed in tampere to make it easier for ordinary citizens to move, live and work throughout europe. third country nationals who have been long-term residents in britain, for example those from the commonwealth, will now be guaranteed equal access to education, health care and other benefits on the continent. in addition, uk nationals facing legal difficulties abroad will now have easier access to justice, including access to legal assistance and translation services and simplified compensation and claims procedures. among other measures, governments also agreed on common rules for the reception of persons requiring political asylum and the drawing up of a charter of fundamental rights. the charter will, for the first time, list all the fundamental rights granted to eu citizens in a single document. this landmark document will complement the european convention on human rights which the uk government has just incorporated into uk law. all these measures will ensure that i am not left in the lurch when constituents in my constituency who are facing legal problems abroad come to me for help. the british will now have the same statutory rights on the continent as all other eu citizens. the british, who were for so long relegated to second-class citizenship under conservative governments, are now first-class citizens under labour.
- mr president, let me first of all support the epp's argument and say that this debate is mainly about a company in a member state and therefore not a matter for the eu institutions to deal with. the challenge to michelin in terms of competition forces it to increase productivity, which means redundancies. i understand we're dealing with a bicycle tire factory. let 's see . michelin can import bicycle tyres at half the price of french production. no business can survive under these circumstances. the question is whether we want europe to be a bicycle-tyre economy or a modern high-tech economy. i would like to question a prevailing idea in this house, and in particular in the committee on employment and social affairs. it is claimed that we could save jobs and improve job prospects by discouraging companies from laying off workers they no longer need. an idea that may seem plausible but is completely wrong and goes against the goal. if we keep jobs on life support that are past their expiry date, we are damaging productivity and reducing the competitiveness of european industry. we keep workers in a deficit and value-destroying situation instead of offering them the freedom to find new employment in a profitable sector where they can create wealth. under the flexible anglo-saxon model, workers frequently lose their jobs, but this is of no consequence because they quickly find another one. (various movements) under the rigid and sclerotic european social model, we fight to keep workers in failing companies and when they finally lose their jobs, they may be unemployable. that is why europe has much higher unemployment, and long-term unemployment, than the united states. finally, we should remember that governments do not create jobs, that the european institutions do not create jobs. businesses create jobs. as legislators, our task is to create an environment that allows businesses and employment to flourish. we should not ask industry to formulate social protection objectives. let governments take care of social security and let industry create wealth and jobs.
- mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr helmer and others that the members of this house are not trying to restrict or impede the decision-making capacity of companies. what we would like to do is encourage them to watch their investors. when i speak of investors, however, i am not referring only to shareholders: i am also thinking of the thousands of workers in companies such as michelin who have invested their time, energy, knowledge, skills, hopes and aspirations - and those of their families - in a company for which they have worked for many years. i think about the investment of the communities that support and sustain them. i am also thinking of all of us taxpayers here and in the rest of the european union. directly or indirectly, public money is invested in these companies. this is money coming from the regions, the states and europe and, as mr nobilia said a moment ago, it cannot be dissociated from any obligation. a good company looks after its employees. it works in partnership with its staff and encourages involvement, partnership and innovation. a good company does not treat its staff or the community that hosts it as factors of production that can be thrown away lightly in an overall game of profit and loss. this house has become accustomed to the idea of external costs in environmental policy, since the cost of harmful practices is borne not by the company concerned but by society as a whole. perhaps we should think in similar terms when it comes to the social responsibility of companies like michelin. otherwise, the burden will fall on the shareholders alone. we are clearly facing an imbalance within the european union. on the one hand, considerable freedom is granted to firms in restructuring and relocation, but on the other hand, very few rights are granted to the workers concerned. and even where european legislation provides for a number of rights, for example the right to be consulted well in advance on decisions on collective redundancies or other major changes affecting living conditions, this legislation is not observed or implemented as it should be. we need to re-examine this question. a number of issues remain to be addressed at european level. we need to review and improve the legislation on individual and collective redundancies and on works councils. we need a general framework for information and consultation and also a review of the legislation on transfers, mergers and acquisitions - this is not the case here but it is the case in the banking and insurance sectors for example. the 12% rise in michelin's share price in the days following the company's announcement shows how cynically and deliberately the financial markets have been manipulated in this matter. i think that is absolutely reprehensible and i hope that is the feeling of all sensible people in this house. finally, i shall conclude with a procedural motion, which is really a procedural motion. mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the following point: two days ago i signed a compromise resolution with other members. in its last paragraph, it contained a reference to michelin. the resolution distributed for tomorrow's vote no longer contains that reference. a member of the plenary record department deleted it without informing a single signatory. it is a very serious matter indeed and i hope you will look into it and inform the house. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would first of all like to express my sincere sympathy to all those who are losing their jobs through no fault of their own or as a result of restructuring. i know what he's talking about because i've been in that position myself. i've been unemployed, and it's not funny. however, the best way to guarantee employment is to ensure the success of enterprises. the best way to ensure the success of companies is to ensure their competitiveness on the world market. to counter certain members from the other wing of our house, i would say that even if it does not make a good impression in the newspapers, the best time - the only time, in fact - to announce restructuring plans is to do so from a position of strength. if you wait until you're weak, you have to take much bigger steps and lay off more workers. it's a fact, that's life. it is clear that companies have many responsibilities, but their primary responsibility is to survive as employers and to take the necessary measures to do so. and i do not think that the role of this house is to lecture them on how best to do this and to debate the "relevance" of restructuring. we need to look more closely at what we can do, as well as what governments can do, to help prevent this problem from happening as much as possible. this means looking at where we can reduce the burden of unnecessary regulations which impose additional costs on businesses and how far we can reduce the non-wage costs that companies have to bear and which therefore encourage them to cut back on employment whenever it comes to saving large sums of money. that is the subject we should be discussing today. finally, i would like to say that too often government intervention can be an obstacle to the competitiveness of firms. for the sake of the credibility of this house, we must be careful not to fall into the same trap.
- mr president, the previous speaker mentioned senator jesse james. as far as i know, he was a cowboy with a trigger. we're actually referring to senator jesse helms, who normally shoots very fast, but not with a gun. i would like to make three points in this debate. firstly, we all agree to emphasize the dangers of nuclear proliferation. in its statement the commission rightly stressed the need for the united states to play a leading role in the face of countries such as russia, china, pakistan and india, which are waiting for them to play this role. it's not happening right now. we will have to work hard to ensure that the us senate accepts reality. we are therefore right to criticise the us senate's attitude on the question of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. second, it's interesting to note that in the previous debate on the issue of globalization, we recognized -- whether we like it or not -- that economic forces were global, that new technologies were global. and yet, we find ourselves facing a u.s. senate, facing a legislative body, that intends to resist the global environment in which it lives. perhaps this is because they fear verification difficulties and that the ban would allow countries such as north korea or iraq to conduct low-intensity tests, or perhaps they fear that a permanent halt to testing would lead to a deterioration of their nuclear arsenal and its deterrent potential. the commissioner referred to an article by sandy berger in the herald tribune, but was that the real answer to the question of why the us senators had voted against the treaty at that particular time? on the same page of today's herald tribune, there is a second article in which mr. crystal, editor of the weekly standard, states that the republicans will argue that american security cannot be preserved by international conventions. instead, they will ask americans to face this increasingly dangerous world with no illusions. they will argue that american dominance can be preserved for many decades not by arms control agreements but by increasing american power and therefore its ability to impose itself on others. as other speakers have said, i contend that we have the absolute right and that it will be necessary to discuss with our colleagues in congress, particularly those in the senate. as a member of the delegation for relations with the united states, that is precisely what i intend to do as soon as possible.
- mr president, last week in greenock on the west coast of the union, three courageous women - angela zetter, ellen moxley and bodil ulla roder - were on trial for criminal offences. they had tried to intercept the trident missile system based in the clyde valley. their aim was to prevent what they considered to be a serious crime under international law. the judge, sheriff gimblett, asked the jury to acquit them as the prosecution had failed to prove that they had acted with criminal intent. this judgment is subject to appeal. if he appeals, the lord advocate of scotland, the attorney general, will have to argue before our highest court of appeal the legality of a defence policy based on weapons of mass destruction. the doctrine of dual purpose cannot apply to weapons that are intrinsically designed for mass destruction. the courage and judicial independence of sheriff gimblett - the courage of angela zelter and her companions - stands in stark contrast to the irritating inability of the us senate to ratify the ctbt. like most of my countrymen, i am deeply opposed to the use of scottish waters for the trident system. i am proud to represent in this house a party, the scottish national party, which is resolutely opposed to this. i am glad that the whole green/efa group is in solidarity on this point. it should come as no surprise to anyone that we regret the decision of the united states senate.
- mr president, i do not need to go into the issues that have been very briefly summarized, particularly by mr patten - except to emphasize again the risk that this senate decision will send the wrong message to the hawks in the duma who have so far proved incapable of responding to nuclear disarmament initiatives. i would also mention its impact on the non-proliferation treaty which will have to be reviewed next year because it is based on the assumption that the existing nuclear powers are working towards disarmament. this hypothesis must now be called into question. and all this despite the fact that the ctbt treaty would have forever affirmed american nuclear superiority. that's what's stupid. but all of this stems from a larger problem. this is actually american domestic policy. if we look at the history of western policy towards the former yugoslavia, for example, we see that its effectiveness is linked to fluctuations in us domestic policy. i would ask commissioner patten, if he is still listening to us, if he agrees with me that this reinforces the need for an effective european foreign, security and defence policy which would allow us to act autonomously - not to be independent but to look after our security and prevent it from being constantly carried away by the winds of domestic politics and the american presidential elections.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i am very pleased that we have unanimous support and it is good that the commission, parliament and the council have clearly underlined the european union's support for the nuclear test ban treaty. it is also good that the member states of the union have fully ratified this treaty. it is regrettable that the united states senate has given an untimely signal in this matter, especially to countries which might still be tempted to acquire nuclear weapons. i can assure you that we will be constantly present in the political discussions between the european union and the united states. but as we know, the united states government is not a problem in this respect. we must, and you in particular, members of the european parliament, direct our efforts to the united states senate to support this treaty.
commission - mr president, during this brief but interesting debate i listened with interest to the views of the honourable member, mr maccormick. we have known each other for 35 years, which may surprise the house since we both look much younger than that. but i think i can honestly say that our views on nuclear weapons have not changed in three and a half decades, which i think is a case for the coherence of existence. more seriously, i think that most of the speakers, whether mr baron, mr haarder, mr elles or others, have made this extremely important distinction between the united states and the american administration on the one hand, and the united states senate and particularly its republican majority on the other. it's important that we make that distinction and that we recognize that it's the senate and the members of congress as a whole that we need to put the pressure on. one argument we have to convince them of, and this was reflected in the article quoted by mr elles, is that the unilateralism currently advocated by some republicans - not all of them, let us be honest with mr logan - is a policy which could be compared to ourselves alone, to draw a parallel with irish history, and which would be as disastrous for the world as it was after the first world war. i think we have a lot of persuasion to do. the honourable and gallant member of parliament, general morillon, referred to the senate vote and noted that it had failed by 51 votes to 48. in fact, it is much more serious than that because ratification of a treaty requires a two-thirds majority in the senate and we are short of almost 20 votes for ratification. in any event, i can assure the house that the commission will gladly join the honourable members in persuading the us senators to reconsider their decision. it's in our interest, in their interest, and in the interest of the whole world. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i asked mr patten a direct question. i wondered if he was going to answer it.
- mr president, i would like to address an aspect of cultural diversity which requires support: minority languages. europe should be proud of its linguistic diversity. the european union has done a great deal to promote its cultural wealth and i commend commissioner reding for her work in this area. many members of this new parliament may not remember that in may 1998 the budget lines for minority languages were frozen because they had no legal basis. can the commission now ensure that a legal basis is introduced for these projects? we cannot allow the situation of 1998 to recur. less widely used languages must be given the funding they deserve; otherwise, excellent innovative projects - in the theatre, in literary translation following the conclusion of the ariane project, in language learning, etc. - will also suffer. as a welshman, i have been able to note the significant benefits of european funding but also the threat to excellent projects that the withdrawal of financial support posed. the budget has been frozen for 16 months already, so it is unlikely that any programme under the culture 2000 programme will be launched before 2001. it is therefore crucial that the commission uses its preparatory measures to ensure that ongoing projects are not affected. languages are more than words. they are the vehicles for the expression and also the celebration of european cultures. let us hope that what commissioner reding said will become reality and that every language will be respected and encouraged, regardless of the number of speakers.
- mr president, the youth programme has been one of the most successful in bringing together citizens of different nationalities and in learning from each other. if i may take scotland, which i represent, as an example, thousands of scots have benefited from hundreds of youth programmes. in fort william in the highlands, for example, a group of young people interested in outdoor projects have developed a cross-country skiing programme with slovaks. in dundee, an exchange of views and experiences was established with a spanish project on the current problems facing young people. in the west lothian region, a social assistance project was developed in partnership with munich. in fact, just yesterday a group of young people from the region were attending a debate in this house. to conclude my list of examples, i would like to mention the link between larkhall in lanarkshire and a french project in which young people took part in the construction of a cycle path in southern scotland. from youth group animation to cross-country skiing, cycling trails to social action, the fields are as diverse as the participants. and if these are just a few examples of the effect of the youth in scotland programme, imagine the impact of this programme across the eu and its future potential. however, the funding of the youth programme is not only crucial, it is of paramount importance. the young, as i am myself, are the europeans of the present and the future. we are the first generation to be linked to a european identity as well as to a national identity. if the institutions of which we are a part want to be important today and tomorrow, the funding of the youth programme is paramount. i urge members to return to their constituencies and discuss with the organisers, participants and beneficiaries of this work, a work which brings the essential ideas of the european ideal to the local communities: the ideal of citizens of different nationalities working together for the common good. please support this report and the work of young people in europe.
- mr president, i would remind this house that agenda 2000 gives a high priority to education and training for young people but that this priority is not reflected in the allocation of the youth action programme. but this programme is investing in our future, in young people who, as we heard today, will become the europeans of tomorrow. through these action programs, we will change young lives by offering hope and options where there was nothing before. in my area, in the west midlands of england, thousands of young people have benefited from this. i want more of it, not less. finally, following on from mrs scallon, it is quite appropriate to say the following: let us remember in this house that these young people will become the generation which will finally rid our continent of racism, sexism, homophobia, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination which are the shame of us all. we have a duty to support this report and the programmes for young people. and i would point out to mrs. scallon that the term "family" has been used for political purposes to exclude more people than she has ever included. i congratulate the rapporteur. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i am sure i speak for almost all the members present in this house this afternoon in saying that we think that culture is not getting enough money. the question is what the members who are not present think. they would all agree that we must ensure that we get it for the little money we can spend on culture. and i really need to be convinced that with the audiovisual observatory, we'll get our money's worth. that is why i tabled and supported amendment no 3 proposed by the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, limiting our commitment to a three-year period. it could be extended, but our commitment is for three years. my reasoning is threefold: what substantial evidence do we have that the audiovisual observatory is doing the work we want it to do? i would like to quote mrs dührkop dührkop in her report. it stated that the parliament's audiovisual services had a negative perception of the quality and usefulness of the paid services provided by the observatory. we have a deficit of 6 billion euros compared to the united states. clearly something is wrong and needs to be fixed. secondly, i would say that we are funding statistical services in too many ways. the observatory as such, eur 215 000; eurostat, eur 250 000; the statistical services of the member states, eur 350 000. in short, we spend almost a million euros on statistics alone. the observatory is used to carry out tasks which eurostat cannot carry out. we should ask eurostat and the commission to try to solve the problem and to provide us with the information we need to try to make better use of this money. if i can say this in less than two minutes, it is not unreasonable to expect the commission and eurostat to tune their violins in three years.
- mr president, i thank mr gargani for presenting this report and the members of the previous parliament who also helped to bring this report before us this evening. of course, this is not a subject without controversy. there are basically two possible approaches to these types of cases. the first is to say that we leave people alone without allowing them to fulfil their obligations. the second, which i agree with, is to actually allow the power of cultural activities to transcend the differences between peoples and to change people's lives. even if serious issues are not fully resolved, we depend on initiatives like this if we are to move towards a healthy future and a european project. these initiatives are vital to changing people's attitudes. if we are looking for change and coexistence, we need look no further than northern ireland where european funds have helped bring people together and have significantly changed the face of conflict. this is what such initiatives can achieve and what will enable europe, its border regions and its beneficiaries to propose a change-making agenda. i would like to echo mr gargani in saying that all the issues discussed in this house tonight are aimed at making culture a priority; we cannot develop a successful european project with the euro alone, for example, or by guaranteeing employment. cultural change will be the ultimate realization of the ideals and ideas we all have in encouraging our common future.
- (nl) madam president, there is a great deal of confusion on this subject, because a mistake has crept into the version which was finally signed. the negotiated version of the resolution did not contain any comments concerning michelin. i'd like to stick to that. there are now a number of versions. it would therefore be necessary to determine whether the english version is correct or whether the others are. we are now dealing with different versions. i therefore think it is preferable to vote on this resolution in brussels after the strasbourg partsession. that seems to me the simplest solution.
van gorsel (eldr). - (nl) madam president, i would also like to speak on this, because i negotiated this resolution on behalf of the liberal group. the starting point was that the word 'michelin' should not be in the resolution, otherwise we would not be able to reach a common resolution. in none of the versions does the word 'michelin' appear, except in the english version. i would therefore ask you to accept the french or german version as the original and to put it to the vote. i don't think that's the way to do politics. if we make agreements, i hope the socialists will also stick to them.
- by mr harris (epp). - madam president, a number of members present today may not understand much of what has happened with the european women's lobby amendment. amendment no 394 was tabled by one of my colleagues, mrs scallon. many of us would like to vote in favour of his amendment but we do not know how to do so because of what has happened in the coordinators' meetings. thank you for giving us some insight into how to support the original amendment no 394.
- madam president, i believe that there is no way of voting on this amendment since it has not been reintroduced after having been the subject of a vote, i would say, of a transformation within the committee on budgets. so we have an amendment from the committee on budgets which, i must say, ladies and gentlemen, was voted with some confusion and which is a rather hybrid being since it has the title of the european women's lobby and the content of mrs scallon's amendment. you will have noticed that there are signs that the positions of the european women's lobby and mrs scallon are not identical, but that is the amendment which was voted by the committee on budgets. i understand that we are voting against it. i'm supposed to support him, but i find him a little inconsistent. if we vote against, we will then vote for or against the amendment by the european women's lobby. there is no way of introducing mrs scallon's amendment back into the circuit in a procedural way because there is no basis for compromise in an oral amendment. i simply believe that the problems raised on this occasion will certainly be examined by the committee on budgets, in the framework of the working party set up by mr wynn on the whole of our institution's subsidy policy. i would reassure my colleague on this point, but in my opinion we can only vote on the two amendments which are there: the one from the committee on budgets and the one which has been reintroduced by the committee on women. - after the vote on amendment no 443
- (it) mr president, we are faced with a very serious situation. without, of course, wanting to question the authority of the committee chairman who has just spoken, i think it would be wise, in the face of a request from the largest group, to act with greater caution because an absolute majority makes voting difficult, to say the least, as we have seen. it seems to me that mr corbett's argument is not admissible. this is an amendment to the rules of procedure. the gravity of this vote dictates the decision you have taken. i thought it was the right thing to do. it is clear that this amendment to the regulation is an essential element in the referral back to committee of a text which, having the force of a regulation, can only be approved by an absolute majority. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, the first part of your decision is quite correct. it is true that a qualified majority is required to amend an article. however, what mr corbett said is very important. all we are doing with the rest of the text is attaching the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement to the modus vivendi of this parliament. i ask the house to think carefully about what it is doing here. at the present stage, the situation is as follows: the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement has been accepted as regards the commission, the council and parliament's staff, by a decision of the bureau of parliament. only the members of parliament are not concerned. do we really want to say that meps are afraid of olaf's rules being applied to them? let's not get to that! (applause from the left)
- as you can see, colleagues, the situation is quite complex. i now give the floor to mr nassauer because he asked me to do so, but i would ask you to consider this: in a situation like this it is difficult to make progress when decisions require a majority. we should really take account of the very delicate situation which our assembly must, if possible, face by showing great convergence.
in writing. - (de) the fpö representation will reject as a whole both the motion for a resolution by mr bourlanges (third chamber - commission) and that by mr virrankoski (other sections) because the principles of transparency and efficiency in the implementation of the budget have not been observed. it is also not possible to carry out effective control of the use of union funds. the commission is also too clumsy. the processing of applications and their payment to union citizens takes in some cases more than one and a half years, which causes justified criticism of the union administration. the 2000 budget does not devote sufficient resources and programmes to the real problems, such as the high unemployment rate. the union has been almost unresponsive to the consequences of globalisation and the introduction of the euro. instead of reworking employment programmes, aid programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, the union can afford an over-expensive administration and, for example, two buildings for parliament. the challenge for the future will be whether the eu can develop common principles for an economic recovery in europe that would largely solve the labour market problems. however, this will also require more efficient administrative structures in the union and the member states. since we do not see that the union can contribute to economic recovery in europe, we reject the 2000 budget in its entirety.
in writing. - i raised the problem, which european citizens have put to me, of an unacceptable monopoly in the european financing process. the scallon amendment was not accepted by the committee on budgets. my colleagues in this committee have drawn up an amendment to open up european funding to a wider range of women's groups. parliament has dealt with this issue today and the resulting vote continues this monopolistic trend. the debate will certainly continue throughout the next year. all women and groups defending their rights should have equal access to community funding, especially when it is intended to promote the representation of european organisations at un level. it's a matter of principle. everyone is well aware that it is sometimes necessary to take a stand on the principle of transparency and fairness within our democratic structures. we must prevent monopoly agreements from being made. although i am aware that a monopoly situation has been allowed to continue, i welcome the renewal of the 600 000 euro envelope. i hope that it will increase in the future and that it will help, of course, to make the voices of all women heard.
- mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, i would like to say that we supported the approval of the interinstitutional agreement which we consider to be an essential piece in restoring the credibility of the european union in its anti-fraud policy and in its handling of allegations of fraud. it is extremely regrettable that we were unable to approve it today for the reasons outlined by my colleague mr david martin. this puts parliament in a very awkward position and, with a few honourable exceptions (notably mr gil-robles), the attitude of the european people's party is highly hypocritical. he supported this proposal in committee. it did the same in the debate on monday, where it made it clear and unequivocal that it would support the proposal, and now it is backtracking by not adopting it. how can we continue to show ourselves to our electorate and how can the epp group continue to show itself to its electorate when, after having rightly made such a big deal of the fraud during the election campaign, it no longer keeps its promises when it acts today? the epp group must examine its conscience, and without delay, because it has created an embarrassing situation for all of us in this parliament today.
mr president, i see that there is an avalanche of last-minute explanations of vote on the matter of the napolitano report being referred back to committee. i feel like mine was misrepresented and i would have liked to have done one as well. thank you. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the question is not whether or not members' expenditure should be strictly controlled. i am the first to say, and i explained it at length in my speech last monday, that there must be a check, but a specific check, adapted to the quality of the elected members. i think i have heard a lot of approximations in this respect. it is true that the institutional agreement explicitly refers to the members of the institutions, but when we read this expression in its context we see that it refers to salaried members, such as the members of the commission, and that the provisions are not adapted to elected members such as those of the european parliament. so the two categories of membership should not be confused. this is why the napolitano report makes a second confusion between the situation of members of parliament and that of civil servants. it is clear that the officials felt that the decision could have been taken long ago. moreover, mr president, in my view the annex was linked to the main article and therefore, as you have just said, we could not vote on the annex from the moment the main article was rejected. a referral back to committee is therefore entirely justified. the napolitano report was discussed too quickly, in a hurry, and many things were forgotten.
- madam president, the question is not about the minutes but about the problem mentioned in the minutes. it seems to me that the confusion of many of us during yesterday's vote is due to the fact that the president closed the vote too quickly. and the people who were pressing the button realized that their vote wasn't being recorded. the president and the vice-president could take note of this and discuss with the plenary proceedings departments the need to allow sufficient time between the opening and closing of votes.
commission - at the florence summit in june 1996, the heads of state and government agreed to lift the embargo against the united kingdom 'only and exclusively on the basis of objective public health and scientific criteria and when the commission considers, in accordance with the existing procedures, that these criteria are met'. the implementation of the export regime involves high requirements. first, the uk had to slaughter calves and heifers born of known bse cases - which would otherwise be eligible - before the export scheme could come into force. any new animal showing signs of bse is also slaughtered. secondly, the only products eligible are: boned meat and a limited range of derived products from animals aged between 6 and 30 months and born after the ban on animal flours, i.e. after 1 august 1996. in addition, not only are the animals and their mother subject to strict conditions of identification and traceability, but there must also be sufficient guarantees that the mother has not contracted bse. finally, the entire production chain must be subject to strict specific controls and must be in full compliance. these controls are the responsibility of the uk authorities. however, before fixing the date on which exports under the scheme were to resume, the food and veterinary office carried out a mission to verify the implementation of the export scheme. the mission was successful and the resumption of exports was set for 1 august 1999. the uk has already carried out two audits of dbes controls this year alone. these inspections took place in april and october. the opinion issued by afssa on 30 september 1999 concerning the lifting of the embargo on beef and beef products originating in the united kingdom reaches an unfavourable conclusion. this opinion is based on scientific and control arguments. the scientific questions were submitted to the scientific steering committee for its opinion. preliminary meetings were held on 14 and 25 october 1999 in the framework of the esb ad hoc group. during these meetings, the scientific documentation provided by afssa was reviewed and maff epidemiologists were again consulted. a report from these meetings, which explained the situation in detail, was presented to the scientific steering committee. this committee met in brussels yesterday and is still meeting today to discuss the matter and to issue an interim opinion. the meeting is not over yet. so i have no information yet on the outcome of this meeting. i understand that my colleague, commissioner byrne, will present the conclusions of the meeting of scientists at a press conference with the chairman of the scientific steering committee at 6 p.m. in brussels this evening. i can assure you that the european parliament will be kept fully informed of the findings of the scientific steering committee.
- madam president, the united kingdom has complied with the demands of the florence summit and that is why i say that france must immediately lift the embargo on british beef. the florence agreement concluded by the heads of state and government of the european union on 21 june 1996 sets out five preconditions which the united kingdom must meet in order to lift the embargo on its meat exports: the implementation of a selective slaughter system; the introduction of an effective and fully operational system for the identification and traceability of animals; and legislation on the removal of meat and marrow from feed and farm composition. the united kingdom meets all these conditions, which the rest of europe does not. the fourth and fifth conditions respectively consist in the effective implementation of the 'over 30 months' rule, i.e. the exclusion from the food chain of any animal over 30 months of age and therefore the introduction of improved methods of disposal of specified risk material from bovine carcasses. these conditions have been met by the control measures described above. the european commission inspection visits verify that the uk meets all these conditions. that is why i call for the immediate lifting of the embargo on british beef exports. i think the commission has accepted that british beef can be safely exported. the commission lifted the embargo on british meat on 1 august. the key point is the absence of bovine animals older than 30 months in the uk food chain. there has not been a single case - i mean not a single case - of bse in animals born after 1 august 1996 in the united kingdom, that is very important, no animals older than 30 months in the food chain and no case of bse in animals born after 1 august 1996. there was selective slaughter of cattle born and raised with bse infected animals. the offspring of bse-infected cows must be slaughtered. the cost to british farmers is enormous. in 1995 alone, uk exports to the eu amounted to £500 million, almost half of which went to france. almost half a million calves were exported from britain to the rest of europe in 1995. the message is clear. the cost to farmers of the reduction in the value of british cattle and cattle products and the associated regulations is estimated at £1 billion. while bureaucrats and politicians quarrel, british farmers and their families suffer. on 1 august the commission lifted the embargo; 12 of the 14 member states to which britain could export have lifted their embargo. if france had new evidence concerning the safety of british beef, why did it not inform the commission before the embargo was lifted in august 1999 - why did it wait until today and why is it indefinitely delaying its lifting of the embargo? the british expect france to comply with community legislation and they also expect the european commission to act firmly to end the illegal embargo on british beef. the single market is the very essence of the european union and france's illegal action discredits the whole single market. a war of words over who has the healthiest meat in europe would only undermine consumer confidence in european food, wherever it comes from. we learned this lesson when the first cases of bse appeared. the longer this debate goes on, the more likely it is that british consumers will boycott french food. this is unleashing passions in britain and the crisis must be resolved quickly or we will be going into retaliatory action on both sides of the channel. three months after the commission lifted the embargo, the veterinary committee is still looking for evidence of the safety of uk meat. this is unacceptable. the commission declared uk beef to be healthy on 1 august when it lifted the embargo. it must now take firm action and force france to lift immediately its illegal embargo on british beef. the french government must pay compensation to the british cattle industry for the damage it has caused. the longer this illegal action by france lasts, the more it will damage the reputation of the european union as a whole.
- madam president, i would first like to thank commissioner fischler for his statement and tell him that we want mr prodi or commissioner byrne to come to the european parliament next wednesday to make a clear statement on the measures the commission intends to take following the publication of the scientific conclusions which will be given shortly. the new commission must give the impression that it is acting with firmness, and to avoid eroding public confidence, it must act in the next few days, not in the next few weeks or months. that is why i say to commissioner fischler that the debate with his colleagues this weekend on the scientific conclusions - when you meet as a college on wednesday - must not lead to evasions or loopholes, but to decisive action based on a clear decision of the scientific committee which will be taken shortly. perhaps mr parish could send a copy of his speech to his party leader, who has unfortunately called for a ban on french products in the uk. what we want here, madam president, is scientific proof of the validity of france's arguments - or the contrary - and we want an immediate solution. we reject the xenophobia and chauvinism we have heard in recent weeks from both sides of the channel. we want to make sure that farmers and their families get the attention they deserve. we want to make sure that the british beef embargo is lifted. the evidence is that british beef is currently the healthiest in europe, and in our opinion, in the world. it was this house, through its special committee of inquiry on bse, and supported by the european commission, which recommended the measures which have just been taken to ensure the safety of people consuming british products and beef in the european union. it is for the future of the european union, it is for the future of our unity during the wto negotiations in seattle in november that two of europe's main trading partners must deal with this problem. can you imagine the consequences for the forthcoming wto negotiations if the british and the french continue to oppose each other on such a fundamental issue? our opponents will use this argument to divide the european union in these crucial talks. i would like to pay tribute, madam president, to the national farmers union and to the british farmers. we had a visit this week from tim bennett, the vice president of the national farmers union. he met with my french colleagues in the socialist group and he put forward an irresistible argument justifying the lifting of the embargo on british meat. he didn't use the stuff we've seen recently, like the liberal democrat dragging a bag of british beef into the airport, hoping an unfortunate customs officer would stop her, giving her the opportunity to be photographed, or the british conservatives taking the bastille two weeks ago in paris, again hoping for a photograph. the representatives of the national farmers' union came here to meet the members of parliament and the commission representatives because they had a weighty argument to make. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament who have received and listened to the british representatives and farmers. but i say to the commission that the responsibility of the representatives of the national farmers' union cannot last indefinitely. if the commission does not act next week, if this situation drags on for a few more days, the argument of the united kingdom will no longer be valid. people who are now asking for calm and understanding will not be heard. it will inevitably escalate and i think it will indelibly stigmatise franco-british relations. i say to the commission and to this house that we need calm in the coming days: we do not want a trade war or retaliatory measures. common sense must prevail and we want to base our decision on scientific evidence; indeed, in the next crises - and there will be many more as consumers have become very suspicious of their food - science, the objectivity and independence of scientists, are absolutely crucial. who knows what kind of questions we'll have to submit to the science committee. it is of crucial importance that we base our decisions on scientific evidence. and while there is now a large majority of scientists in favour of lifting the embargo on british beef, we expect the french authorities to take the appropriate action in the coming days, and we expect the commission to take the appropriate legal action if france remains on its side. let me conclude on this last point. the only issue that has been brought to light by this dispute is the need to set up a european food agency as a matter of urgency. i would ask commissioner fischler that the college meeting next wednesday should bring forward a proposal for the establishment of a european food agency. i think that if there had been one today, this quarrel would never have happened.
- madam president, before i begin, i would just like to say to mr donnelly that it is a great thing to declare to the citizens that there must be no trade war. mr brown, the british minister for agriculture, himself said that he would not buy french foodstuffs. i am very disappointed that we were unable to reach a solution today. i hope we find one soon. this situation is detrimental to our farmers, whether they are french or british. british beef is healthy. the hygiene standards prove this; the scientific evidence supports it. other countries lifted the embargo on 1 august. no cases of bse have been detected in animals in the relevant age group - 6 to 30 months - since 1996. not a single case. why didn't france lift the embargo? i suspect it's because she took our deal. almost 40% of our trade with the european union was with france. the french government raised no objection last may when the international veterinary organisation proposed more flexible conditions than those provided for by the date-based export regime. but this dispute shows that there is a need for an independent food agency at community level. this would avoid the excessive influence of national bodies which very often preach for their own chapel. this agency could examine community practices applied throughout the european union. it could draw attention to the hypocrisy of france about maintaining the embargo. i have heard of some of the practices currently taking place in france. i do not know how much of it is true, but i have heard that french cattle are still being sold with their spinal cord and brains - the food agency could look into this; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of the member states to grant exemptions from the requirement of the protection of the environment. that the pigs were still fed animal meal - the food agency could examine these cases; that hygiene standards were less strict in france; the commission has also proposed that the french supermarkets do not require pesticide safety certificates for products. the list goes on and on, not to mention the sewage sludge. everybody is disgusted. but i am not so much concerned about that as about reports of the maintenance of animal meal and slaughter in animal feed. before setting up a european food agency, the commission must examine all these cases, including in france. if the commission finds, on the basis of scientific evidence, that france is in breach of one or other of the rules and that the foodstuffs are not fit for human consumption, it will have to take severe sanctions against it, as was the case with esb. i do not think that france was wrong to criticise britain for some of its past practices in relation to bse. i think the conservative government should have acted sooner. i think he should have spent more on research earlier. but now, none of the cattle we export from 6 to 30 months old carry bse. it's important that we remember that. but we must ensure, in the light of the evidence that will emerge tomorrow and after hearing the conclusions, and in the absence of new scientific evidence - i doubt that there is any - that sanctions will be taken immediately against france if it does not lift the embargo. i hope france will hear the truth. i hope that she will be right for the sake of our farmers, for the sake of french farmers, for the sake of the european union and the commission. the commission must ensure that it acts firmly. if it avoids the issue, if it presents a compromise not based on scientific evidence, it will fall into disrepute and will drag the whole european union with it.
- mr president, let me say at the outset that my party, the uk independence party - whose members are often dismissed as 'little englishmen' - is very sorry to see the rise of petty nationalism in france and britain on the beef issue. however, ironically, the european institutions - which were behind the british beef embargo in 1996, and whose role is to promote the unity and cooperation of european nations - have in fact created a political situation which has led us right to this disagreement. my party, which has a clear electoral manifesto for britain's withdrawal from the european union, notes that if the commission had not intervened in 1996, the various countries would have been able to decide whether or not to buy british beef. at the time, a number of countries, particularly south africa and botswana, were willing to continue buying british products. without the eu ban, britain would have been free to exploit alternative markets, and this crisis would have been avoided. here is a classic demonstration that the uk's membership of the eu is bad for the uk's business. this confirms my opinion: it is time for my country to recognise that its interests will be better protected if it leaves this club. most britons thought their country would join a free trade area, but this crisis shows the opposite is true. while the uk has followed the letter of the eu legislation, other countries are trampling on the regulation. the fair terms we were promised are as unbalanced as the deck of the titanic after it hit the iceberg! so while i hope that the commissioner's efforts will be successful, i fear that whatever he does will not be enough. i will urge my own government to get him out of this club and into the real world of business.
- mr president, it is regrettable that our debate today is again taking place in the absence of a decision by the committee which is currently meeting in brussels. it is also regrettable that this debate has taken such a hysterical turn in some parts of europe, fuelled by some media, particularly those based in london. we all agree that food security and public health must be considered the top political priority in europe. but british beef, as commissioner fischler has repeated today, meets the public health criteria set by the european union. i wonder if the commissioner can state in his summary speech that the raising and slaughtering of cattle is now of the same quality in all the member states. i also regret that this issue has been turned into a battle between france and britain, because this is a matter that france has to deal with europe. the british beef industry has just been through a very tough period where the conditions set by the european union were very severe. those conditions have been met. the commission must therefore take firm action to enforce the lifting of the embargo on british beef. my colleague, mr graefe zu baringdorf, has referred to 'british' beef several times in his speech, but the united kingdom is made up of four distinct regions. and in my home region of scotland, cattle farmers have every reason to feel wronged, because originally they had no serious bse problem. the conditions set by the european union have been met, and yet we are still not able to export our products. our farmers rightly wonder why they have suffered so much to meet these very harsh conditions. what is the point of prolonging this debate for years and setting up a european food agency if its recommendations are not implemented? the question raised here is this: if we define european standards, are we entitled to expect them to be accepted by the participating member states? consumers must be protected in terms of food safety, but they also have the right to make choices, and they are smart enough to do so. i am quite convinced, as a resident of angus, in the heart of the scottish region of aberdeen where angus beef is produced, that french and other consumers would choose scottish beef if they had the right to do so.
- mr president, like mr graefe zu baringdorf, who spoke earlier, i was a member of the special committee of inquiry for the esb. he would agree with me that we have added, if i remember correctly, a whole series of special precautions which were deemed necessary to ensure that british beef could once again be considered healthy. these measures, together with the five provisions of the florence agreement, have all been enacted. it was only then, after a three-year period, that the beef embargo was lifted in strict compliance with the conditions described by others in this debate. the logic of the case before the special scientific committee is that we should reject its previous hearings and re-introduce the beef embargo in the european union. what else could the scientific committee say if it were to back down now? one thing is certain, we must strengthen the precautionary principles introduced in the uk following the bse disaster. this implies a review of the current situation and not a retrospective, and it implies looking at how to integrate additional safeguards and precautions after they have been established and further emphasising the urgency of some of them, in particular ante-mortem and post-mortem testing of livestock. some people have already said in this debate that we need to create a european food agency that would look at the kind of health precautions we need. this would imply the introduction of certain conditions which do not yet exist in other european countries. this would involve the removal of meat and bone meal from the entire animal and poultry food chain. this is not the case everywhere. this means strict separation of products at risk. again, this separation is not fully effective. this implies strict precautions against illegal practices of the kind that the commission very quickly discovered with the case of the infiltration of the bovine food chain by human and animal waste, which has just taken place in some other countries. the precautionary principle must be the inspiration for our policy, but it must be based on common principles, a hierarchy of standards which makes health values prevail. the uk government was therefore the first to introduce the concept of a european food agency, while europe is still discussing it. therefore, the dbes specifically excluded anything that was or still was in doubt, including boned meat. mrs roure has pointed out the dangers of xenophobia in this debate. i want to pay tribute to him for his speech. he was a proponent of cordial relations. it would be terrible for us at this stage to sink into chauvinism on either side of the channel. i agree with the president of our national farmers' union who said this week that what upset him most were people trying to make a petty political profit from the tragedy that engulfed his own members. the dispute between two member states over this unilateral embargo could be a disaster. it is likely to be detrimental to the single market. it will cause job losses in the event of sanctions and reciprocal embargoes; and it will humiliate us if we arrive in seattle deeply divided and displaying a belligerent attitude, when we need to stand united against the united states. we understand that commissioner byrne is leaving dublin today and returning to brussels to chair a press conference with mr pascal when the special scientific committee reports. commissioner byrne knows exactly what the ins and outs of this problem are for the commission and european cooperation. commissioner fischler, i would like you to help him understand the sad line from one of his national poems which says that the best lack conviction and the worst are animated by intense passion. we want that intense passion to drive the best in this case. we want people to come together and help europe to act in the way that parliament, the special committee of inquiry, has asked. this is the only way to prevent europe from degenerating and ultimately damaging the european idea in the first place.
- mr president, i certainly enjoyed listening to some of the speeches today, and in particular mr donnelly's opening speech which seemed to criticise the failure of the french and british governments to find a solution to this escalating trade war. i will remind mr donnelly that both these governments are socialist governments. we have just learned that the british agriculture minister has not even met his french counterpart, which is ridiculous when you consider the unleashing of passions in this trade war. but i can understand in part the rage felt by farmers and consumers in britain when they hear that sewage sludge has been incorporated into animal feed in france, when they hear that the british government has been aware of this practice since june but has decided not to raise the issue with the european commission and when they hear that britain still slaughters 60,000 head of cattle over 30 months old a month but cannot pass them through the food chain. otherwise, they are perfectly healthy animals which are incinerated after being slaughtered and their ashes scattered in landfills. this will be considered one of the greatest agricultural mistakes of the century. we are furious to learn that france is also affected by bse - 22 cases have been reported this year. yet even injured and sick animals that die on farms are processed and their wool is introduced into the pharmaceutical industry, the cosmetics industry and therefore into the food chain. as other speakers have said before me, the rules of the game are not the same for everyone. i hope we can find a diplomatic solution, and we must do everything in our power to do so. i call on the commission and the uk government to put pressure on france to comply with the conclusions of the scientific steering committee later this afternoon, whatever they may be tonight.
commission (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank you for the way in which this debate has been conducted here today. i think that this was an exemplary debate which can make a considerable contribution to bringing the discussion back to an objective basis. the main conclusions i draw from this are as follows. firstly, i am deeply convinced that in future we must base our decisions, and also those of the commission, on the judgement of independent scientists - and this is very important - and on the latest scientific knowledge. so remember, the origin of the whole bse problem has been precisely the failure to respect this principle, because decisions have been taken for economic and market reasons, without proper consideration of the health issue. that is why we must not make the same mistake again, either way! it would therefore also be wrong to draw conclusions now, without knowing what scientists are currently debating. we must await the opinion of the scientific committee, which is composed of totally independent scientists. but we must also, and i take this very seriously, act immediately. our activities cannot therefore be confined to waiting, and i am happy to convey my message to president prodi and my colleague mr byrne. i am quite prepared to ask them to allow this debate to continue on wednesday, including the commission's conclusions. four key elements were addressed in this french expert report. one is the use of the tests now available. i do not think that these tests should be used purely as a placebo, i think that here too we should base the decisions - which we have done - on a scientific basis. i am convinced that these tests can be of good use in monitoring the whole process at european level, and they should also be used for this purpose. as regards the extent to which they can be used, we must at least be careful about one thing and not think that we have absolute certainty, that we can be one hundred per cent sure that we can distinguish between meat which is dangerous and meat which is not. these tests are good, but they are not 100% reliable. we cannot hope for zero risk here either. if new recommendations are to be made by scientists, we are of course quite prepared to consider them accordingly. as regards control, i agree with those who have said here that the level of control must be comparable at european level and that it is not enough to have an effective control system in britain alone. however, we are not only carrying out inspections in britain but also in other countries, in order to guarantee this principle at european level as well. as regards the request for the establishment of a food agency, i would like to say that we are well advised to move forward on this matter. here the conditions must be defined by my colleague mr byrne, and in this connection i would like to stress again that i am against our going to a food agency such as the fda. i think we should rather take as a model the food agency we already have for pharmaceuticals, a sort of european model of a food agency. as regards the question of postponing labelling, i would like to point out that the commission's interest is not in postponing labelling, but that our interest is not to find ourselves at the end of the year without an optional labelling system and without a mandatory labelling system. there is one point which you must not overlook: it is useless to make a labelling system compulsory in the absence of the necessary database. it is then that we would deceive consumers by presenting them with something that does not exist in reality, and that would undermine our call for transparency and objectivity. in conclusion, in the future, we should really focus on letting the facts speak for themselves. in this way we should also prevent various emotions and, as far as the facts are concerned, we must also be competent and transparent here. in conclusion, i would like to point out that we will be providing all members with the committee's conclusions again today in electronic form.
- thank you, commissioner fischler. - i'll see you in a few. i am sure you can count on the support of this house in your attempt to resolve this difficult situation. following commissioner fischler's statement, the commission will make the relevant documents available to you this afternoon before the press conference. they will be sent to you by e-mail and will be available on the european parliament's internet site. the debate is closed.
- the next item is the report (a5-0022/1999) by mr cunha, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the financial compensation provided for in the agreement between the european community and the republic of angola on fishing off angola for the period 3 may 1999 to 2 may 2000 (com (1999) 389 - c5-0170/1999/0169 (cns)).
- mr president, yesterday we were supposed to approve the extension of the eu/morocco agreement to give spain and portugal fishing rights in moroccan territorial waters. today we have to vote on a similar agreement with angola. my brief but eventful career as a member of the european parliament has enabled me to see, and more particularly since yesterday, that this house, which dares to call itself a 'parliament', simply endorses the commission's decisions without discussion, and i have the impression once again that this is the role we must play. but if this house intends to be a somewhat rigorous review body, it must begin to ask some fundamental questions about the principle behind these agreements. evidence suggests that the implementation of these agreements is causing major conservation disasters. it is indeed an example of colonial exploitation of the peoples of the third world which should be a source of shame for all of us who live in what is supposedly a civilized world. over the past seven years, eu taxpayers have paid €1.4 billion to governments and elsewhere, and even the neutrality of the commission's words does not allow us to see what this money is used for. yet this is nothing more than financing spanish and portuguese fishermen, giving them a licence to plunder the waters of the third world, often in total disregard of the basic principles of conservation of stocks. morocco has told us of the dismay of local fishermen at the immense damage being done to their fish stocks, just to supply the european markets with sardines and other common species on which their own livelihoods depend. a few years ago, namibia was an example of the disaster that occurred off the coast of west africa. finally, she said she had had enough, given the disastrous impact of spanish fishing in the area. it is time for this house to say that it has had enough of all this. these policies have resulted in a disaster for the conservation of species. in fact, it seems to me that this is all a senseless catastrophe.
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the commission, i should like to begin by sincerely thanking parliament for its overall positive assessment of the new protocol on the fisheries agreement with angola. except for an extension of tuna catches, this protocol takes over the fishing opportunities of the previous protocol for the years 1996 to 1999 and its annexes. it should also be noted - and this was also noted by various speakers - that the protocol has a duration of only one year, and that half of that period has already elapsed. however, the community and angola may redefine the future framework of their fisheries relations during the year, as angola has requested. so we should use that time. the financial compensation paid by the community to angola for the fishing opportunities granted under the protocol and the amount paid by community shipowners in the form of fees also remained unchanged. the financial compensation corresponds, therefore, to the amount fixed in the previous protocol, in proportion to one year. as regards parliament's amendments, i would like to assure the committee on fisheries of parliament on behalf of the commission that we will keep you duly informed of the implementation of the protocol, as we have done in the past. to do this, however, we should choose the most appropriate formulation.
- commissioner, now that your new portfolio is fisheries, you will see that parliament often talks about fisheries on friday, but you had a varied menu this morning for a change. the debate is closed. we now move to the vote. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) explanation of vote
- thank you, mr posselt. transmission of texts adopted at this part-session - calendar of forthcoming partsession: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 11.10 a.m.)
commission - madam president, i am pleased to have the opportunity today to inform parliament of the developments in the last few days in relation to bse. first of all, i should like to inform you of the opinion adopted unanimously by the scientific steering committee last friday. the opinion concerned the scientific reasons for the advice of the french food safety authority (afssa) concerning the measures applicable to exports of uk beef. i have made sure that the summary recommendations of the scientific steering committee's opinion are sent to parliament on friday with a copy of my press statement. i also made arrangements yesterday for a full copy of the report to be provided to you. however, you may not have had time to digest its contents, so i will briefly summarize the main points. the opinion deals in particular with three questions from the commission. these questions can be summarised as follows: - is there any new evidence in the documents provided by afssa? - should one or more of the four opinions of the scientific steering committee be revised as they directly concern the scientific justification of the date-based export regime? - is the programme satisfactory as regards the safety of the meat and meat products concerned? in its opinion, the scientific steering committee confirmed that the decision to lift the embargo on british beef exports should not be reviewed. let me quote three of the committee's most important conclusions: 'there is clear evidence of continued progress in the decline of bse cases in the uk in 1999. the suggestion that there is a new route of contamination is not justified at this stage.'; - 'the scientific steering committee concludes that there is currently no reason to revise the overall conclusions of the opinions of the scientific steering committee directly concerning the justification of the export regime'; and finally 'the scientific steering committee believes that the measures taken by the united kingdom make any risk to human health from the uk export regime at least comparable to that of any other european member state'. this followed a very thorough examination, which focused on the concerns raised by the french authorities. the unanimous opinion of the committee was very encouraging. it has provided the necessary assurance that the export regime is sufficient to ensure the safety of uk beef exports. and let me be clear: i have always insisted that this opinion of the scientific committee would play a key role in the way the commission would deal with this conflict. on several occasions, including during my hearings before this house, i have publicly stated that my decisions on food safety will be based on scientific evidence. my priority is to ensure there is no threat to public health. sound, independent and excellent scientific advice is essential in this regard. in this particular case, we now have scientific support for existing control systems. it is on this basis that i have asked the french and german authorities to take the committee's opinion into account and to lift their national restrictions on imports of british beef. as i said on friday, these restrictions are no longer necessary in light of the protective measures in place. we must admit, however, that this is a very sensitive subject in which we must proceed with caution. that is why i also stressed on friday that everyone needs a few days to reflect on all the implications of the opinion of the scientific steering committee. the meeting i had last night with my french and british counterparts was in that spirit: we must discuss the best way of resolving this conflict. the french authorities have now requested clarifications on five key points. very briefly, they want more information on traceability, testing, derivatives, controls and labelling. i do not think that this request for clarification is unreasonable. as a result, a meeting of officials will be held this friday to discuss the issues in question. let me quote the very short communiqué on which all the participants agreed last night and which recognises this strategy: 'we have formulated a methodology for getting out of the crisis as quickly as possible by identifying five points - which i have already mentioned - which deserve to be examined by our experts in the coming days. our experts will start this work on friday. we are undertaking this work in a constructive spirit and with a shared commitment to protect the public health of our citizens". i'm very surprised at the press reaction to last night's developments. this is not a setback. this is not a victory for france or a defeat for the united kingdom. it is simply a further step in solving this difficult problem. a few more days of discussion is a very modest price to pay for a happy ending. of course, the alternative - legal action - would be much longer and more painful. further guarantees or clarifications may be necessary to enable the french authorities to lift their restrictions on uk beef. this should not, however, be an insurmountable problem and it is in this spirit that the discussions should continue. the clear implication of these discussions is that the embargo will be lifted. however, i would like to make it clear that there is no question of rewriting the date-based export regime. this programme has been supported by the scientific steering committee as a set of reliable protective measures which ensure the safety of british beef exported under this programme. you can't change it. finally, i will continue to insist on the need for a solution to be found very quickly. i would remind you that this is the first working day since the scientific steering committee's opinion was adopted. we've all worked very hard and worked very hard over the last few days and that effort will continue until we find a solution. i will of course continue to keep parliament fully informed of developments.
- madam president, i would like to thank commissioner byrne for his statement. it was more like a baptism of fire for him as the new commissioner. would he agree with me that the situation in the beef sector is now tending to throw confusion in the public eye over the acceptability of opinions at european level on food safety and that this bodes rather ill for mr prodi's project for a european food safety agency? it is very important for my committee and will be important for this parliament in the months to come. in particular, on the embargo and the opinion of the scientific steering committee, could he say why, if the opinion is so clear and unanimous, further negotiations are still needed? (applause)... or should we say other clarifications. the difference between clarification and negotiation seems to be somewhat blurred, at least on the other side of the channel. will it take action against france after the commission meeting on 10 november if, at that time, having had several days to digest the unanimous decision, the french government has taken no action to lift the embargo?
- madam president, truro is in the county of cornwall and not in devon. can you guarantee that france is not just trying to buy time? since the scientific committee decided on friday that british beef was safe, it seems incredible that we had to wait any longer. i think france is just trying to save face. i am sorry that the minister of agriculture, mr brown, seems to be losing his nerve. whatever the reasons, this does not promote consumer confidence. we must ensure that the embargo is lifted as soon as possible. can the commissioner guarantee that he will be lifted in the foreseeable future? last friday, he said it would be two weeks. can he tell us whether he thinks the delay should lead to france lifting the embargo?
commission. - as regards the question you have raised about scrapie and bse, although they are similar diseases, they are quite different in their modes of transmission and so on. it is not easy to extrapolate from available information on the tremulant directly to the bse. this is instructive but it does not allow for direct extrapolation. i think the issue of labelling is one that generates consumer confidence. i have already said on this subject on many occasions, including during my hearing in september, that a consumer protection commissioner must first inform consumers. the labelling scheme obviously provides information. i consider it a good step forward.
commission - according to the information i have, there have been over 40 diagnosed cases of nvmcj. as regards the identification of the origin of animals by labelling, you are right in that the legislative system to be set up at community level will ultimately prove that products imported from another member state will be identified as european origin rather than originating from a member state. what is at issue here is that the united kingdom is voluntarily proposing to maintain the labelling system for its beef which it has introduced under its beef quality assurance programme. it is a purely voluntary programme, which is not governed by any european legislation. i must say that i am fully convinced of the competence of the scientific steering committee. it is composed of the chairmen of the eight scientific committees responsible for subjects such as food, toxicology and other subjects, and eight other persons who have been chosen and appointed by the commission. its members are, let me stress, totally and completely independent. the commission cannot tell them what to do with the substance of their reports or their timetable. as regards your reference to scottish scientists, etc., i understand that this question concerns only beef bones, which are not part of the date-based export regime. i am not at all convinced that what the scottish scientists have said on this subject relates to uk exports under the date-based export regime. as regards your question on the precautionary principle, it is derived from a concept which was first stated in the environmental field. it lays the foundations for the precautionary principle. it is quite specific in that it says it should be enforced and one of the specific aspects is that there must be no scientific evidence of a particular danger or that there must be serious doubts about the scientific evidence. we have a unanimous report from the best scientists and veterinarians in the european union which is available to the commission. in this report they expressed their opinion that british beef exported under the date-based export scheme is as safe as any other european beef. in such circumstances, the precautionary principle is not appropriate.
- commissioner, you will agree that it is of paramount importance that we find a european solution to this problem. you've made an effort to do that this weekend, and we commend you. however, would you not agree that since the unanimous confirmation of the safety of the date-based export regime, provided you personally support it before this house, as i hope you will, there is very little left to clarify about what can still be done? do you not agree that some of the points now being raised by technical experts - and i am speaking more particularly of labelling, improved diagnostic tests, etc. - constitute progressive improvements in safety measures for europe as a whole? the date-based export regime does not need to be replaced or supplemented. in that case, do you not agree that the debate on the safety of british beef should be closed on 10 november and that, if the commission has nothing to add to the matter, you should only start the unfortunately long-delayed legal proceedings on wednesday?
commission - mr. whitehead, thank you for those kind words. i agree with you that it is of paramount importance that this issue be resolved at european level for the reasons i have mentioned above. this is important for a number of reasons, and in particular for consumer confidence, and that is why i am trying to solve this issue as i am sure minister glavany and minister brown are doing. as regards the date-based export regime, i naturally support it. i'm glad to have the opportunity to do so again to answer your question. you'll notice that i've done this before and i've done it many times. let me repeat that my intention is not to propose legislation to amend the date-based export regime which is itself subject to legislation. that is not my intention and i made that clear over the weekend, repeatedly, and i repeated it yesterday. these improvements, as you describe them, are gradual. some of them do not concern the application of the date-based export regime, but i must say that some do, particularly in the area of traceability, issues surrounding derived products. further information was requested on exactly how the derivatives scheme would operate under the date-based export regime. i am very happy to clarify these points, but i must remind you of something i am sure you are aware of: there are no british exports of beef processed under the date-based export regime because a processing plant must first be identified and approved and the british authorities have not proposed any such plant. as a result, there are no exports of derived products under the date-based export regime but that can happen and if it did happen, i was asked yesterday to clarify exactly how this would work, which products could be isolated, etc. these are not unreasonable questions and i shall be very happy to answer them in the coming days. as for the date on which this will take place, the meeting will be held on friday, i hope that the deliberations and explanations will be completed by friday. there may be other meetings next week. i assume that the french authorities will have another discussion with their food safety authority and i certainly expect their response no later than thursday next week. i would then be able to first give the commission more recent information on wednesday and then provide the final version on thursday at the commission meeting in strasbourg. but it can happen before then. if that's the case, good. if not, i will bring you a report from the commission on thursday.
- i thought with innocence and naivety that when the scientific steering committee met last week and made its statement, which was made by mr pascale, a french national, as chairman of that committee, indicating the unanimous position of that committee that british beef is as safe as any other beef in europe or even safer than any other beef in the world, that was the top of the pyramid. i didn't think it was possible to go beyond that. now, mr. byrne tells us that we just need a few more days of discussion. well, it seems to me that three months have passed since 1 august when the french and germans defied european legislation. are you telling me, mr byrne, that in the three months that the french food safety agency has been preparing a huge dossier, it has not studied the technical implications including traceability, testing, derivatives, controls and labelling? are you telling me that now, just after the unanimous statement of the scientific steering committee, she wants further technical clarification on these points? that sounds ridiculous. what exactly is she asking for? we have heard mr martinez question the competence of the scientific steering committee. is mr martinez aware that the french food safety agency (afssa) has an annual budget of eur 52 million and that its board of directors is composed of 50% of people appointed by the french government and 50% of people representing farmers, retailers and distributors in the food sector? and you, commissioner, do you know that? let us therefore ask ourselves what their competence is. the highest french officials assured us in paris that it was science and not protectionism that was behind all this. but i think it is clear that this is a form of pure trade protectionism. do you know that's how the afssa is run, mr. byrne? (applause from the group of the european people's party)
commission - yes, as i said earlier, i am in favour of the creation of a european food safety agency. my department is working on it right now. i met with colleagues and members of this parliament and we also discussed this informally. work on this issue is under way. no final decision has been taken, of course, and as i said earlier, the structure of this agency must be defined, as well as its relations with the other institutions of the european union and the national food safety agencies of the member states. it will also have to be managed well, because we want to avoid any risk of finding ourselves in a situation similar to the one we are in today. we must, however, remain cautious and, as you very rightly say, be careful not to take away the inalienable rights of the member states, because any interference with the rights of the member states would very likely infringe those rights and require an amendment of the treaty. i'm not sure that we want to go that far with the way things are. i do not exclude this possibility, but i want you to understand that in dealing with your question in this light you must be aware that any progress in this area, if the desired effect is to reduce the competence or the rights of the member states, inevitably implies an amendment of the treaty. let me end by returning to the precautionary principle you mentioned in your question. i have spoken of this precautionary principle in the context of american imports, and i am sure you are referring to hormone-treated beef. i have referred to this principle in this house and in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on several occasions. i should point out that scientists from the european union have informed me that american beef contains the hormone 17-beta-estradiol, which i have been told is totally carcinogenic. in such circumstances, it is appropriate to rely on scientific evidence rather than applying the precautionary principle. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is only in the absence of scientific evidence or when this evidence is uncertain that the precautionary principle comes into play. that is why we do not apply the precautionary principle to imports of hormone-treated beef from the united states.
- what british farmers want, and in particular the farmers in the west midlands region that i represent, is a speedy resolution of this particular problem. the scientific committee has clearly demonstrated that it believes that british beef is as healthy as any other beef raised in the european union. in these circumstances, i am sure the commissioner would agree with me that it is better to wait a few days rather than risk two or three years of litigation, which always ends up frustrating everyone, satisfying no one, and even less so the british farmers who have respected the rule of law, have done what they were asked to do, and are now able to sell a great product throughout the european union. i would just like the commissioner to repeat one last time here and now, just to make it clear, that this delay will not exceed a few days and that he thinks that this matter will be settled at the latest on tuesday at the strasbourg session, or better, before tuesday.
commission - let me tell you that i have met on several occasions with mr ben gill of the national farmers union. we have had telephone conversations and i have been able to get a sense of his feelings on this matter over the last few days and particularly last night. i have been in constant contact with him, and i can assure you that i am aware of the problem this is posing to british farmers. i agree with you completely when you say that a delay of a few days, if it does lead to a solution, is far better than a trial before the court of justice of the european communities. i also confirm, and repeat what i have already said, that i hope to submit a final report on this matter to the commission no later than tuesday, at the strasbourg session.
- thank you for speaking to us so clearly. after hearing all the debate, i was just wondering if you were really fully and completely aware of the devastating effect of this decision on british farmers. you've already made it very clear that when it comes to scientific evidence, the standing committee is the ultimate authority. mrs jackson asked you, in the very first question, whether the fact that another committee is responsible for examining food safety issues in the european union that the current standing committee would actually make improvements and whether citizens would take this into account. it seems to me that they have not taken this into account at all. in fact, your reasoning is almost the opposite and shows that when it comes to scientific evidence, the steering committee is probably not as good as a food agency. british farmers are suffering from this procrastination. it's about time we ratified the decision. the previous speaker spoke of a few days; but the decision was made in august. how many more days will it take you to make a decision ? let me also ask you: is there a practice in the member states, or in some of them, of feeding cattle with substances which i would describe as prohibited? will the scientific committee and the commission look into the matter? or are we going to continue to let the press use this information to attack the member states? commissioner, i am simply telling you that british farmers, the european union and agriculture are suffering from indecision. we want a decision to be taken on friday evening, before the strasbourg session. there is no scientific proof. didn't the french sign the treaty of florence? does the united kingdom not meet all the conditions set out in this agreement? why was no decision taken immediately ? (applause from the group of the european people's party)
- i would like to address three aspects: the context, dialogue and democracy. first, the context in which the macroeconomic dialogue takes place. one important and vital element is missing, even though it is present in the treaties. i won't surprise you to hear that i'm thinking about the environment. article 2 makes sustainable development one of the key objectives of the european union, even though many of us may question the methods set out in the treaty to achieve it. but some of these methods are certainly macroeconomic, as this debate shows. and the sustainable development i would like to draw attention to has nothing to do with the sustainable growth we have heard a lot about this afternoon. if growth is quantitative and not qualitative, my thesis is that we are actually creating instability by making money off of the oil spills, the cleanup that they entail, and so on. article vi, title 2 of the new treaty clearly states that environmental considerations must be mainstreamed at all levels of eu policy and practice and, in our view, the macroeconomic dialogue is also concerned. for example, it is certain that climate change, if left unchecked, will destabilise the economy of any country, as the european union's own research shows. this research also shows that economic development, in its traditional sense, is limited in some areas by the lack of fresh water and that the european union already produces more toxic waste from economic growth than it can treat. so the environment is a factor to be integrated and i would like to know how it will be. who's gonna be represented? we would also like to see a real dialogue on this issue, not just economic propaganda. it is essential that we seek new ways and better ways of meeting the objective of sustainable and balanced development which takes into account our own needs, the needs of the environment and which does not have any negative influence on the living standards of the less favoured regions of the world. in other words, i would like to know how we are going to assess the extent of our macroeconomic policy. thirdly, i would like to see the democratic deficit in the process addressed, certainly at the next intergovernmental meeting. i listened to the list of people who were going to be there, and i was struck by how much the process was like a gathering of friends at the local coffee shop on a friday night, after which everyone goes home and tells their story of the evening, hoping that other people will hear the best stories. i want to know how we as elected members of parliament are going to be involved in this process, especially if it is as closed as what has been concocted for us. it seems to me that we are not being treated as parliamentarians or as adults and mature enough to participate in the dialogue on macroeconomic policy. i would suggest a change of attitude at this level and at least some openness, so that we are aware of the developments and inform our constituents.
- (en) at the beginning of this year it became clear that a macroeconomic dialogue had become absolutely essential and there is no doubt that the first meeting of the partners next week will be a historic breakthrough. unfortunately, we members of the european parliament will be watching from the sidelines. despite the absolutely resounding rejection of the isolation and secrecy surrounding all our institutions in the parliamentary elections last june, the first stage of this macroeconomic dialogue, which will take place next week, will be further proof of the democratic deficit, in that the european parliament will be excluded without any valid reason to justify it. dialogue involves two types of interlocutors. first, the social partners or the central bank, which have direct influence on the terms of the equation, such as wage formation or the level of interest rates, and then, in a separate category, the european commission and its policy mix advisers, for example. they have no direct influence on the terms of the equation, they do not have this decision-making power. their role is to advise and influence. in this respect, our institution is one of the commission's main partners. we may disagree with the advice and guidance proposed, but we will not be allowed to participate in the macroeconomic dialogue and make our views heard. i am told that these are technical issues and that the european parliament is not concerned, but i believe that the issues raised in the macroeconomic dialogue and touched upon in today's debate are not technical in nature but are highly political and we, democratically elected members of the european parliament, must have a say in this dialogue. this is the basis for what some call the need for confidentiality, trust, or even secrecy. some people have used the term "secret". it's a step back. we have found all sorts of ways in the budgetary procedure to reach a working agreement which would allow our parliamentary institution and the commission to maintain confidentiality. they could be used for this macroeconomic dialogue. however, as regards the content, i hope that this macroeconomic dialogue will draw on the evidence of the success of the dynamic measures we have been increasingly implementing on the labour market since the luxembourg summit. have these measures created real jobs or should we cling to the increasingly fleeting view that structural unemployment is the largest part of unemployment? can we start to move away from this kind of thinking, or perhaps even start to take a more realistic view of interest rate setting, a view that would admit that the situation has changed and that we can start to refrain from raising interest rates as unemployment falls so as not to discourage fragile growth? these are the kinds of issues i would like to see on the agenda of next week's macroeconomic dialogue, but neither i nor my parliamentary colleagues will have the pleasure of attending that meeting. this is a real regression and it is a shame.
- mr president, it is very important that the council and the commission look very carefully at the meeting now taking place and those to be held in the future on the subject of the macroeconomic dialogue. it is absolutely unjustified to exclude the european parliament from this. we are discussing the annual economic report with the council and the commission. last week mr duisenberg came to the european parliament to report on the work of the european central bank. the finance ministers shall be heard by the economic and monetary affairs committee of the european parliament. the social partners shall be heard by the european parliament. at this point, i hope this is a forgetting. it seems rather absurd not to have invited us. i want to talk about the content of the dialogue. frankly, i think it's much more important at this point than who is present or not present at the first meeting. this meeting was called the macroeconomic dialogue. i hope that this is a real dialogue and not a monologue. our experience of the debates with the ecofin council and the european central bank shows that we are very much involved in a monologue. we sit and listen to the orthodox speech of the ecofin council and the european central bank. they don't have any imagination. macroeconomic dialogue is crucial to this. the current economic environment is very favourable (low inflation, recovery in growth, reasonable stability). but what will happen in the future when our economy is faced with a problem, when there is a serious external or internal shock and when there is a need to engage with the social partners and other economic actors about unpleasant measures that may have to be taken at european level? i am speaking to the president of the ecofin council and to commissioner solbes mira. the macroeconomic dialogue in the coming days is not just about the current situation, but is about laying the groundwork for the future, so that if problems or difficulties arise, we can really sit down at the same table with the social partners and find solutions to these problems or difficulties. we also do not want this monologue - and having had the opportunity to hear mr duisenberg, this dialogue is certainly likely to be a monologue - to be limited to a debate on the level of wages. the real economy of the european union encompasses many more aspects than the level of workers' wages. we must look at labour market reform. we need to look at capital market reform. we need to look at product market reform. all these aspects have an impact on the social partners. in conclusion, i would say that my group will study with interest the conclusions of the macroeconomic dialogue. we consider it a first step. but we ask you to get involved in the future and to understand that in times of difficulty this dialogue could play a decisive role in how european citizens accept the institutions of the european union when difficult decisions have to be taken.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the speakers for this debate. i am convinced that it is useful; it has been interesting. it is important that the european parliament should be involved in the debate. i am, however, obliged to note that the european council in cologne has defined very clearly the participants in the dialogue itself, and the presidency has no choice but to respect this definition. i am convinced that the macroeconomic dialogue will progress and also produce results. the present is a particularly favourable time, but it also brings with it many challenges. it seems that growth is coming, it's in the bud. however, it does not appear to be a substantial fall in unemployment. conversely, despite unemployment, there are bottlenecks and labour shortages in some sectors. such a situation presents a great challenge. it is important to try to instill confidence and faith in the future among economic actors, in the private sector: among employers and also among consumers, who are the ones who create demand and create employment opportunities. as we have said here, the single currency broadens our range of possibilities, but at the same time brings new risk factors. as regards the macroeconomic dialogue and its nature, i would like to agree with what mrs randzio-plath has said here. the key economic players must be able to discuss with each other in areas where their activities overlap. each has its own mission, the ecb and the social partners, but in some respects these missions have common points. it is important that these key players have a good mutual understanding of their ideas and principles of action. the finnish presidency is also insisting on transparency in this dossier, despite the fact that the whole thing is based on confidentiality; it is important to remember that this is largely justified by the fact that each partner in the dialogue is talking about its own affairs and its own field, and that what is sought is not necessarily joint decisions but mutual understanding. i believe that the european parliament will be able to make its voice heard, and i would be happy, as far as i am concerned, to report on this debate at the dialogue next monday.
commission - (el) mr president, we have just had a very interesting debate and i will begin with a political observation. i think it is just as dangerous to embellish and magnify an initiative by raising hopes as it is to denigrate it by creating a feeling of futility or discouragement. i therefore think that we must give the macroeconomic dialogue its true dimension. it is not an event or a process that we expect to change the reality in the european union. but it is an innovation, an unprecedented attempt to bring together economic actors who have never before been able to sit down together. it brings together those responsible for monetary policy - the european central bank - the political forces of europe, which are represented by the council and the presidency, and the social partners, who represent the forces of production and labour. the participants thus cover a full range. as members of a new parliament and a new commission, we have to implement a decision which was taken before us by the cologne council, and i think we have the political will to develop this dialogue, to organize it, to give it a different form, after having put it to the test, having learned the first lessons and seen in which direction it should be turned. i would like to stress that the macroeconomic dialogue, as outlined in cologne, is essentially about the need to link up growth and employment. and it is one of the key issues in europe today to consider and implement for the first time a european employment policy. the participants in the dialogue, whether at technical or political level, have on their agendas issues of major interest: structural unemployment, longterm unemployment, youth unemployment, initiatives taken in the context of employment policy, the 22 guidelines and action plans of the member states in this field, which are the expected results. the restructuring of the labour market, the restructuring and reforms to be applied, in accordance with the decisions of the cardiff summit, to the product and service markets, can all of them create the conditions for monetary policy to be placed in a different framework? on the other hand, can the single currency, the current low inflation rate and the expected growth rate create a favourable environment for job creation, which is a priority objective of the european union? a dialogue of this kind, which takes place twice a year according to these procedures, cannot provide answers to such crucial questions. but i think we should look at the positive side of this from a political point of view: the issue which concerns the peoples of europe so much - because all the members who represent the peoples of europe have spoken in this debate on their behalf - the burning question of employment and unemployment is at the very heart of the macroeconomic dialogue. in other words, central bankers, finance ministers, industrial associations on the one hand, and labour ministers and the social partners representing the trade unions on the other, discuss and put the question of work at the centre of common policy. i think that for that reason alone we must give this dialogue a grace period, see how it develops and what results it produces before stigmatising it and trying to change it before it has even begun.
commission - (es) mr president, the president-in-office of the council and mrs diamantopoulou have already made some comments on the problems raised throughout this debate, so i will simply introduce a few additional points. firstly, we are aware that the purpose of dialogue is - and this has been made clear - to prepare for political debate, not to replace it. it is therefore a fundamental information element which, unfortunately, cannot, as one member said, lead to the definition of a separate economic policy. this is not the level of coordination of our economic policy at the moment. the dialogue does not advocate excessive concentration or leadership either. this is an exchange of information so that the different economic players can better understand the reality and act accordingly. the problem of the content of the dialogue and the members taking part in it is and will always be a matter of discussion. should we include the subject of the environment or not? should other issues be included, which are undoubtedly related to the economy but not to the macroeconomic policy aspects to be applied at a given time? the content of the dialogue is unlikely to be made more useful by an extension of its content; it will lose some of its effectiveness as we generate more dispersion. the second problem, which is to determine who should or should not participate in the dialogue, was also discussed today. do the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions have a place in the macroeconomic dialogue? they can certainly provide interesting information, despite the very different nature of the participation of businessmen and workers in the economic and social committee, for example. nevertheless, the main point that was raised - and i fully understand this - is the possibility of involving the european parliament itself in the macroeconomic dialogue. the president-in-office of the council and mrs diamantopoulou have already raised this point. the situation is as you know it, because of the decisions of the european council. consequently, what can we do and what are we doing? i am sure that we will be here today to inform you of the progress of the work and to put ourselves at your disposal to continue discussing with parliament interesting aspects from the point of view of the macroeconomic dialogue. the fact that we are not physically sitting at the table does not mean that parliament cannot be present, that it cannot convey its ideas. i think that a few interesting points have been raised today. is it necessary to move towards a higher demand policy in the present context? is it reasonable to continue to consider certain elements of structural policies as they have been decided? is it worthwhile in the long term to consider a presence of the parliament in the macroeconomic dialogue, since it is very likely that the conditions for this dialogue will be different in the future from those we have today? these are problems which we have noted, which we will of course study with great care, and we are naturally committed to keeping parliament informed and even to opening a debate with parliament on the points which it considers particularly interesting.
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express my thanks to the rapporteur, mr von wogau, for his work on this report. this proposal is only one element of an overall package of proposals presented by the commission in november 1998 to fill the gaps in the original working time directive which excluded certain sectors. i hope that this long saga is coming to an end and that all sectors will be covered by the working time provisions which protect the health and safety of workers. the package of measures proposed by the commission last year contained four proposals: a comprehensive amendment to the 1993 directive - this is the subject of mrs smet's report; a directive on road transport - unfortunately, it is currently totally blocked in the transport council; the third, a directive implementing the agreement between the social partners and seafarers, was adopted in june 1999 - this element is therefore settled; the fourth and last proposal, the one i am speaking about today, is a directive on the application of working time on board ships calling at community ports. i have made this brief reminder to show that the four proposals must be considered in relation to each other. there is the agreement between the social partners in the maritime sector, the specific proposal on seafarers calling at ports in the european union, but also ilo convention no 180. in fact, the agreement between the maritime social partners is very closely linked to ilo convention no 180. the three proposals (the agreement, the seafarers' working time directive and the ilo convention) will enter into force simultaneously in mid-2002. parliament did not table any amendments to the proposal at first reading. however, mr hugh mcmahon, then rapporteur, emphasised that the three regulatory provisions had to enter into force simultaneously in order to avoid distortions of competition. so i am very pleased to see that there seems to be agreement and that we are making progress. the fact that the timeframe for adopting the ilo convention now depends in practice on the other two directives means, i am sure, that member states with sufficiently large fleets will be sufficiently numerous to ratify the convention so that it will also enter into force in mid-2002. the only substantial difference between the common position and the position reached at first reading concerns the date of implementation, which was postponed by 12 months. the real purpose of this change in the timetable is to enable member states to overcome one or two technical difficulties which they may encounter in the course of ratifying ilo convention no 180, thus allowing the entire package of measures to enter into force simultaneously. perhaps i could add that i have just met the social partners in the maritime sector and warmly congratulated them on the agreement they were able to reach. it took five years of negotiations to reach this agreement. things are not easy, they don't get fixed overnight. but the social partners have worked very hard and we are now reaping the benefits of social dialogue in this very special sector, the maritime sector. i think it is very unfortunate that the same is not true in the road sector. the difficulties facing the transport council with regard to the commission's proposal for a directive are the direct result of the stumbling block in the adoption of a framework agreement on working time in the road sector. this is indicative of the very real and very marked contrast between the road and the maritime sectors. but this is really putting at risk the revision of the general directive, which mrs smet is also working on. let me explain the nature of the danger i'm talking about. the railway sector is included in the general directive. the social partners in the sector agreed to be included in this general directive as parallel progress was being made in the road sector, as they naturally feared that they would suffer distortions of competition if they were the only ones to put in place extended working time provisions. i hope that the transport council will hear this message and that we will see some progress towards covering road transport too, otherwise there is a real danger at the level of the rail sector in the revision of the general directive. in view of these remarks, i recommend that the common position on the adoption of working time for seafarers calling at community ports be approved. this will ensure that ships flying the flag of a third country and calling at our ports will be covered by the same extended provisions as the agreement concluded by the social partners. this is a good and perfectly balanced proposal and i recommend that it be approved by the house.
i would like to return briefly to some of the amendments tabled in mrs smet's report. firstly, amendment no 5 on the working time of young doctors in training. i fully agree with this amendment which restores the position adopted at first reading. i know that some member states feel that a much longer transitional period will be necessary. but it is quite possible that the maintenance of this amendment will lead to conciliation. this will give us an opportunity to look at the situation in some member states, but for the time being i think we should keep this amendment. mr pronk is absolutely right. the idea of a doctor giving us an injection after an 18-hour day, which is not unusual, should make us think. in the offshore sector (amendment no 6), we have worked very hard to find a wording which guarantees the adoption of a collective agreement leading to the maximum flexibility allowed under the directive, namely the annualization of working time. the formulation of the common position would simply have allowed employers to avoid attempts to negotiate this annualization, leaving the member states free to allow it. we have made one clarification, namely the review, after a period of five years, of the implementation of the provisions applicable to workers in the sector under the particular aspect of health and safety, involving the social partners of industry at european level. amendment no 7 concerns fishing vessels. the effect of this amendment is to try to limit to one year the reference period available for the annualization of the calculation of working time, in other words to make it possible to annualize working time, but no more. if we take a reference period of two or three years or more for the calculation of working time, this exercise loses all its relevance. furthermore, we believe that maximum flexibility over a period of one year is sufficient. in amendment no 8 we ask about the transitional period to be granted to the member states. the proposal for the common position is for four years, which i believe is a first in the social field. we have examined this amendment to go back to the one proposed at first reading, namely to set this transitional period at two years. it may be that there will be a reconciliation, but we have to wait for our vote tomorrow to know more about this. my final thought concerns urban transport, which is the subject of amendment no 9. we have had to revise the content of this amendment again to eliminate an anomaly. originally, the scheme for tram drivers was different from that for bus drivers. that can't be the case. we also believe that a five-year period to take stock is sufficient.
- mr president, we generally welcome these reports and their recommendations. i would like to speak in particular of the doctors in training. as others have said, this has been a concern for a number of member states for many years and it is particularly a concern for eu residents travelling, not to mention those living in countries such as the uk or ireland. some member states have clearly not acted quickly enough in this respect. if we look at some rates of pay for overtime, we can understand their lack of motivation. we believe, however, that the time has come to step up the pace of change. working hours pose health and safety problems for the more than 250 000 doctors in training in the european union. the latter should have the same rights to protect their health and personal life as those they treat. the problem is similar for those who need treatment. we want to make sure that our caregivers are able to act effectively, which they can't be when we know - research shows - that 24 hours of wakefulness decreases performance levels, like after excessive alcohol intake without, i should say, some of the pleasures that go with it. we are told that the training of doctors is long and expensive. some governments argue that this is a reason for the long implementation period. however, there is evidence that demanding working hours contribute to a high dropout rate, with the impact being felt particularly strongly among female doctors in training. we therefore urge our colleagues to support the four years proposed in this report; we believe that we must accelerate change through negotiations.
- mr president, i congratulate mrs smet on her report. i would like to focus on two specific categories: medical trainees and fishermen. as regards doctors in training, i was pleased to learn that the european parliament had approved in committee amendment no 5 providing for a transitional period of four years instead of the nine years proposed in the council's position, which i consider too long. doctors hold our lives in their hands. it is important that they are included in the working time directive. i was concerned about the maximum weekly working time of 54 hours over a reference period of four months. i would therefore ask you to support amendment no 10 tabled in my name for the same reasons. i would like to mention here that the document gives the impression that i have deleted part of recital 11. in fact, my amendment is simply an addition to recital 11. it doesn't eliminate anything. i'm asking for your support. as regards the derogations on minimum daily rest periods, it is also important that we still achieve adequate rest time for doctors. i know doctors in the uk who work 56 hours straight. it is not uncommon for these doctors to start work at 9 a.m. on saturday and finish at 5 p.m. on monday. we are not asking for an 11-hour rest period. we ask, for example, for six hours in a 24-hour period. it's not too much to ask. if doctors do not get this, their judgment will suffer. we don't allow people to drink when they have to drive because drinking affects their coordination. i don't think we should allow doctors in training to practice medicine. i urge you to support amendment no 10.
mr president, i would like to raise a question concerning the implementation of seafarers' working time, their working time on board ships calling at community ports. i do not really see how this measure can be controlled satisfactorily because the ports of the community and the countries of the european community have no real jurisdiction over ships flying the flag of an overseas country or belonging to overseas countries. i have spoken about this with american lawyers (their names are of no interest here) in the last few weeks. they simply think that it is not fair for ports to dictate their own laws to ship owners. we want as much exchange as possible in this area within the european union. we want to make sure that cruise ships come here, spend money here and give jobs to our different countries. i do not see how it is possible to control a practice which seems to be more in the realm of international law. the shipowners and the nations whose ships fly the flag of these countries should be controlled elsewhere and not by european countries.
- (en) tonight, easy and legitimate words were spoken about working time. as everyone knows, health and safety is indeed a matter of concern. there are many problems, however. this directive should nevertheless apply as an absolute principle to all workers, whatever their status. it is easy to see how some choose to include certain categories in the scope of the directive but do not want to stress the need to include others. mrs smet, who presented this report after taking over from the last parliament, must of course admit that when she was a member of the council she had to approve the council's common position, a position which she now rejects. the debate clearly ignores the procedures which the member states must undertake. after all, we are faced with a lack of elasticity of supply in certain circumstances, as is the case for doctors in training. the debate also makes no reference to the efforts already made in some member states. in the united kingdom, for example, the proposals are ahead of this directive and have been endorsed by the chairman of the junior doctors' committee, andrew hobart. he was pleased to see that agreement had been reached on a new contract for doctors in training guaranteeing safe working hours, with the uk ahead of the curve in this respect. the directive on working time is also unique in that it raises a number of practical problems. but maybe i can still afford to smile after all. i agree with the principles of this report, i do not agree with the estimated effects of all these amendments, but i think it is consistent with the position i have always taken. it will be interesting to see how some people who feel free to choose who should have real limits on working time and who should not, will be able to explain this to the affected workers. what about those who work in emergency services, such as paramedics and others? don 't they deserve special treatment too ? we should avoid being complacent and concern ourselves only with certain categories, and we should think of those other people who provide emergency health care on a continuous basis and who are also excluded from certain aspects of the working time directive. please do not be so complacent and reinforce the practical application.
- in general, i find mrs smet's report and most of the amendments tabled by the committee quite acceptable and worthy of support. others referred to proposals to cover particular activities and sectors for the first time by working time regulations. for example, a colleague in my group, mr lambert, referred to doctors in training and i fully agree with his remarks and support the proposals concerning this sector. i am concerned, however, that fishermen at sea, and in particular intermittent fishermen, who are totally independent, will be negatively affected by certain aspects of these proposals and i would like to have some clarification in this regard. intermittent fishermen are co-owners of their vessels and are paid only for part of their catch. their working patterns are dictated by factors beyond their control, such as weather conditions and migratory fish movements, and it is therefore difficult to see how restrictions on working time could be applied in practice in this sector. health and safety concerns are naturally a major reason for limiting working time, but fishing is already subject to codes of practice and regulations which are monitored by the competent authorities. until now, intermittent fishermen have been assured that their unique situation would be taken into account through an exemption. i believe that intermittent fishermen should continue to be considered as a special case and not be subject to inapplicable regulations. i will take full account of the potential impact of the various proposals and amendments on fishermen before voting tomorrow. i will listen very carefully to the conclusions of this debate, in order to find evidence that the needs of the intermittent fishermen can be adequately met.
- with your permission, during the debate i specifically referred to the intermittent fishermen and asked for specific assurances on the position of the intermittent fishermen. i did not find any reference to intermittent fishermen and their position in the replies. i wonder if you would allow a specific answer to be given to this question. in a previous debate on this subject where i made similar comments, the then commissioner made it very clear in his conclusions that intermittent fishermen were not included in the proposals. can the commissioner confirm whether this is still the case or whether the situation has changed?
- with your permission again, as i have tried to make clear, intermittent fishermen are independent because of the way in which ownership of their vessel is defined and how it is operated. previously, intermittent fishermen were specifically excluded from working time regulations, as are or were other self-employed workers. i simply asked for clarification as to whether the particular position of the intermittent fishermen had changed since the last debate.
- i was just saying that the problem is whether fishermen of this type are considered employees or not. this is a crucial point for us and the commission has still failed to answer this question.
- with all due respect, we are still not very clear whether the commission intends to include intermittent fishermen in this article or not. we need clarification on some parts.
- mr president, there are many factors that buyers might want to consider when choosing a car model. when i bought my first car, my first concern was to be seen in it by the opposite sex. today, other factors such as safety and cost-effectiveness are more relevant. we welcome this legislation because it is important that the information presented is made available to buyers for whom environmental and economic factors are paramount. in the uk, people are particularly interested in fuel savings because the labour government has imposed taxation on fuel, which is particularly problematic for people living in rural areas like mine, where public transport is often non-existent. my first reaction when i saw this directive was surprise. not only have we had a fuel economy data publication system for some time in the uk but most people also assume that the existing system is already derived from a european directive. in fact, only sweden and the united kingdom have such a system. it is good to see europe following the uk's example. the key to the success of the british system is its simplicity. i hope that the directive, as presented in the common position, will not confuse consumers by going beyond our system. my first concern is that member states have some flexibility in providing the information available. while i understand that this flexibility affects subsidiarity, it is also true that having different information in different forms in different member states could distort the single market and confuse consumers who wish to buy in different member states. secondly, the directive proposes to draw up a list of the ten best vehicles by category. how do we define these categories? if we look at the car's tyre tracks, small coupes, four-wheel drive vehicles and two-seater sports cars could all be in the same category, which is obviously nonsense. it is also possible that a manufacturer can move a model into a category that includes larger vehicles by simply adding 15 cm of plastic to the front. the rankings of the top ten may also vary between neighbouring countries. while welcoming this project, i hope that, when it is reviewed in 2003, it will be possible to find solutions if certain problems i have mentioned arise by then. finally, i congratulate mr sterckx on the way he has presented this matter to the committee and on his cooperation.
- mr president, i am very pleased to be able to react to this strategy paper on behalf of my group. we generally support it, as is shown by the fact that we have not proposed any amendments. we seem to be making progress on the internal market and we hope to arrive at a situation where we have a properly functioning and fair internal market for all our citizens and all our businesses. i would like to highlight two challenges to be met in order to complete the internal market. the first is to strike the right balance between the quest for harmonisation and respect for the principle of subsidiarity. i would like to draw your attention to this aspect for the outermost regions of the union, whose status is now specifically recognised by article 299 of the treaty. our group will seek to support the inclusion of an amendment to the proposal which sanctions this. the second challenge, which may be the most important, is that of new technologies, the advent of e-commerce. we have an unparalleled opportunity to make the single market a reality for many individual farmers and smes in our member states who might not have considered selling outside their local area before. however, this commercial revolution in the way we do business will also require a revolution in our legal outlook. as a lawyer, i know that my profession doesn't have a particularly revolutionary reputation. the commercial and civil law systems which exist in all our member states were essentially established in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries in response to the industrial and commercial changes which had taken place in those countries. we need new responses, responses of our own, for the 21st century. i have expressed, as have other colleagues, our concern about the combined contents of the framework directive on electronic commerce and the revision of the brussels and lugano conventions. some fear that e-commerce may be hampered from its inception by regulations that risk exposing traders to 15 different european jurisdictions and that these same regulations may not actually provide citizens with easy and affordable access to justice. the old conventions and legal approaches need to be given new imaginative thought if we are to really unlock the potential of e-commerce. some have suggested a new lex mercatoria. maybe it should be an e-lex. it is also true, in view of the question by mrs palacio vallelersundi, that parliament must be fully involved in this process. with new legislative proposals, we should not be pushed to deliver opinions and reports at a frenetic pace, leaving us little time to reflect and consult stakeholders and citizens. whether it is such regulation or new flexible legislative methods, parliament must be fully involved in this process and in an appropriate way. there is no room for evasions or lack of clarity. the new trade will need a new framework that offers certainty to both the consumer and the trader. we have challenges ahead. give this house the time and the mechanisms to respond in a way that meets the expectations not only of european citizens but also of the players on the world market who are waiting for us to take the initiative.
- mr president, i thank the commissioner for having enlightened us by presenting this clear and rational strategy paper, which helps us to see how the commission intends to move the internal market strategy forward. i also thank my colleague, mrs palacio vallelersundi, for doing such a good job of putting together a motion for a resolution on this strategy. we are very pleased with this, but we suggest an amendment: clarification of the position of artists in the community, particularly in the areas of freedom of movement, establishment and taxation. in the main document, we are particularly interested (as others are) in the emphasis on the need for a coherent approach to the regulation of the internet and e-commerce, as well as intellectual property, distance selling and data protection - bringing all these aspects together to protect consumer rights and ensure adequate rules of sustainability. our group naturally wants the completion of the internal market to be accompanied by a balance (as you yourself have said, commissioner) between the freedom of the market and the need to protect the environment, consumer health and consumer confidence. i would also like to say that we think - as you do - that ordinary citizens should see an acceleration and an increase in the efficiency of infringement procedures against failing member states which infringe or deny the rights of citizens of the european union exercised in the framework of the internal market. i am very upset, as a teacher, to see that the question of foreign language assistants in italian universities is back on the agenda without a solution having been found, after eleven years, after three judgments in favour of the rights of these ordinary citizens who seek to exercise their freedom of movement, who seek to benefit from this fundamental principle of the union and the internal market of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality. it is truly scandalous that this problem remains unresolved. i hope that the internal market commissioner and his colleagues will resolve this urgently. the commissioner himself has shown wisdom and foresight in his strategy paper. i hope and i am sure that he will be equally resolute when pressing for domestic files which must be concluded quickly.
- (en) this is a very important document and i am actually disappointed that there are not more members present to discuss it. the most positive thing is that the commission has recognised that we are now entering a whole new phase of development of the single market, which is entirely different from what we have seen before. the first point i would like to make is that this strategy must be flexible and adapted to the situation. the general slogan now is about reinventing societies, reinventing what we do. and of course the kind of new technologies available to businesses and consumers, which many of us have alluded to tonight, are going to be the engine that will develop the single market even faster. in fact, the question i am asking the commission tonight is: does this strategy lack ambition? i agree with what my socialist colleague said earlier, because we must look at the new electronic technologies that are emerging as the driving force behind the creation of the single market. this strategy should, among other things, encourage businesses and consumers to adopt new e-commerce technologies as soon as possible, as they will be the ones to create this single market in the future. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that when consumers - who have the right to do so - start to adopt these technologies, many of the barriers that currently stand in their way, for example the legislation on commercial communications, on how goods can be presented to consumers, will become redundant. messages that reach citizens directly, at home, will not be subject to the extraordinary array of diverse and often intrusive regulations that currently affect commercial communications within the european union. in the future, we must trust consumers, we must give them information and we must give them the means to use the information at their disposal; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. other generations of new small businesses will emerge to exploit and develop these technologies and they will be there to serve these consumers. we must take a second point into account: we must encourage the development of these new enterprises, encourage new entrepreneurs, to ensure that the traditional ideas of the european social model, to which mr medina referred earlier, do not in fact hinder the development which will make europe experience the dynamism and enthusiasm of the americans in adopting these new technologies. in approving this, i therefore ask the commission to think about the next steps to be taken, to encourage new technologies and to encourage consumers and businesses to use them.
- the report and the messages it tries to convey are praiseworthy in many ways, so i would like to congratulate mr menrad, as do my colleagues, on the care he has taken in preparing this report. as british conservatives, we believe, as does the whole house, that the high rate of unemployment in the eu is indeed a major problem and that it must be reduced considerably. we must make it our goal. in particular, we welcome the references to equal opportunities, including for older people and unemployed young people, and the need to promote employment for the disabled. we welcome the comments made by the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the focus should be on reducing the administrative and tax burdens on smes, which are one of the biggest obstacles to employment growth. we also welcome the general call for a revision of tax policy to reduce the burden of taxes and social security, not to mention red tape, which are factors that increase unemployment and weigh heavily on employment. however, we reject an important conclusion that has been made about the single currency, which takes for granted that the implementation of economic and monetary union provides a favourable climate for the creation of new jobs. this is not a fact. the experiment has only just begun and our views on the single currency are well known. finally, we reject the idea that it is the eu's responsibility to develop normative rules for the member states on unemployment. we also have a very negative view of some of the suggestions made this morning by our colleagues opposite, calling for the guidelines to be strengthened or made binding. the different problems faced by the member states must be addressed by differentiated national solutions with a view to creating a climate in which their enterprises can create jobs. therefore, if these guidelines become rules that dictate to national governments what they should do, we will oppose them.
- several members spoke of the need to develop measures to prevent discrimination against women in employment policies. we need to be clear in the guidelines about what measures can be implemented, such as parental allowances, childcare services and policies to combat sexual harassment. we must also call on member states to do more than simply promote equal pay. the equal pay directive was adopted over 20 years ago; however, a 28% gap still exists between male and female wages. that is why we must be more explicit about this in the guidelines and urge member states to adopt measures to guarantee equal pay. the commission's report on the implementation of employment policies stresses that member states have made only token efforts to reduce inequalities between men and women. to facilitate the integration of gender equality into community policies, those who develop them need to know how to apply them effectively. it is therefore necessary to improve the training and awareness of actors in the decision-making process and to ensure a better balance between men and women. a study just published in wales, which i represent, shows once again that women are vastly underrepresented in senior management and are not moving up the career ladder as quickly as their qualifications should allow. this scenario, which is typical as we know, deserves special attention in the guidelines. i therefore ask members to support amendments nos 37 and 38, which provide a solution to this problem.
- while congratulating mr menrad on his report, i would like to focus on the progress made, or lack of progress, on the implementation of guideline 9 promoting an open labour market for all. it is precisely now, as the member states are regaining prosperity throughout the european union, that those excluded from the world of work can and must be helped. if we do not help them now, these victims of social exclusion will be completely and permanently marginalized. the european commission is quite right in its report to criticise the lack of action in employment policy towards these disadvantaged groups in the member states and to call for, alongside anti-discrimination measures, greater integration of these considerations into our employment programmes. parliament is right to endorse in amendment no 13 the holistic approach and the use of comparable objectives, to which i shall refer in a moment and which i ask all members to support. i welcome the examples highlighted in the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the disabled. this morning, as the issue of social security benefits for the disabled is the subject of a major public debate in my own country, the united kingdom, i welcome our new deal for the disabled. the aim was to break down existing barriers by establishing a service of personal counsellors at local level, via what was called the single gateway, and thus to use the employment and social security budgets in a flexible way for the benefit of the unemployed disabled and measures to help them find a job. we can do more at european level, however. if we have been able to get performance targets from the member states for youth and longterm unemployment, why not try to set similar targets to improve the employment of disabled people too? and if the problem is the lack of reliable statistics, then urgent measures should be promoted to define correctly the type of information required. if we stand by and do nothing, the commissioner may have to explain to us how we can then assess the success of our policies and how we can help disabled people to re-enter the employment circuit.
- before we move on to the next round of votes on mrs smet's report, could she formally clarify a point that she did not have the opportunity to make at the end of the debate on wednesday, concerning intermittent fishermen, who are independent fishermen? can mrs smet tell us formally whether or not the provisions of this proposal will apply to selfemployed fishermen, please?
- i agree with the rapporteur's proposal: the vote must be postponed. the week is difficult and the plenary sessions are not very well attended. some important amendments to this report will of course require 314 votes. we have already had to deal with a question in this house concerning a point of controversy which only came up last night and which could well, because of the confusion, jeopardise a major amendment. in view of this, i think it would be reasonable to wait until the strasbourg session. moreover, we are still in time with regard to the council. we can be sure that we will have the required number of members present and that we will avoid any further confusion before the final vote.
- i would like to explain in particular why i voted for the internal market strategy, but let me also point out that i voted against the proposal to postpone the vote on the fishermen's question because it will be absolutely impossible for me to be in strasbourg in two weeks' time. i would like to express my solidarity with the scottish intermittent fishermen, especially those living on islands and in remote areas. as regards the internal market strategy, i welcome the adoption of amendment no 1. my distinguished colleague, mrs echerer, introduced it to our group in order to promote the position of artists who have to travel throughout the community and who collect stamps in many different countries. i am very pleased that the commission has been willing to endorse our position. finally, in the debate on the whole resolution last night, i drew mr bolkestein's attention to the points in the report calling for us to remove the obstacles which are hampering the implementation of the internal market. i also spoke of the problem of foreign-language readers in italian universities whose rights have been denied despite three judgments by the highest courts in europe. as mr bolkestein said last night, i hope the commission will do everything in its power to prevent this kind of injustice. thank you.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs avilés on her work. the daphne programme, we should remember, is an initiative of this parliament which, in 1997, recognised the need for action to combat violence against women, young people and children. in the first year alone, some 428 projects were submitted by different organisations in europe, such a response underlines the need for programmes such as this one. in my own constituency i have witnessed the work of organisations such as welsh women's aid which provides support, counselling and shelter for women and children who are victims of violence. the organisation receives some 15 000 calls a year and this number is constantly increasing. last year, it hosted more than 2,000 women and more than 3,000 children in shelters, and many more had to be turned away due to lack of reception capacity. this influx reflects the scale of the problem as it is in europe. it also demonstrates the importance of the role of ngos and voluntary organisations in this area. there are specific examples of how projects funded under the daphne programme have been able to move forward. in a few weeks' time, an international seminar on violence against women in conflict situations will be held in leeds. speakers from various countries will be present. many other projects, important as they are, have also been funded by daphne in the fight against child sex tourism. let us talk about the legal basis - this is of course a health problem, but it goes much further. however, we can accept the definition of health given by the world health organization, which says that health is not merely the absence of disease but is a state of physical, mental and social well-being. any more restrictive definition would neglect many aspects of the problem and we hope that this definition will become the european definition in the framework of this programme. the daphne programme, as others have said, has made progress, but much remains to be done and it is vital that we continue along this path. i am confident that the council will take its decision before 1 january, which will prevent the interruption of existing projects.
commission - mr president, the commission is delighted to be taking part in the final stage in the process of adopting the daphne 2000-03 programme, a four-year community action programme which builds on the experience of the daphne initiative established in 1997, when, for the first time, the european parliament included in its budget funds to combat violence against children, young people and women. the programme fully recognises the need to uphold human rights, whether the rights of the child as recognised by the 1989 international convention on the rights of the child or the rights of women as recognised by the 1995 beijing declaration and platform for action. the first commission proposal was made in 1998, and over the last 18 months the procedure has survived not only a change in the legal basis but also a change in the treaty, in the comitology, in parliament and in the commission. so clearly this is a robust plant designed to grow and become a powerful weapon in the community arsenal to combat violence against the most vulnerable members of our society. i would like to pay particular tribute to the rapporteurs, mrs bennasar tous and mrs avilés perea, for their work throughout the adoption procedure. they have defended parliament's views in sometimes difficult negotiations. i would also like to pay tribute to the work of the german and finnish presidencies without whose help we would not have reached this second reading today, in time for the draft to be adopted before 1 january next year. finally, i would like to pay tribute to my predecessor, mrs gradin, who handled this matter with great restraint. the daphne programme is a spin-off of the daphne initiative, but two major changes have been made. first, candidate countries and efta countries can now take part in the programme. these will be able to provide valuable assistance to victims of crossborder trafficking in women and children. secondly, the programme is now open to organisations other than ngos. in the light of the different traditions of the member states, i hope that these changes will increase the effectiveness of the programme. the commission accepts the six amendments tabled by parliament. we therefore hope that the daphne programme will be adopted as soon as possible. the commission will then work with parliament and the member states to ensure that the programme can achieve its objectives. the commission will particularly ensure that this programme becomes an important tool for channelling synergies between public authorities and ngos in order to safeguard the physical and psychological integrity and social well-being of children, young people and women in all sectors of activity. i believe that by combining this initiative with the prospect of tampere, we will be able in the near future to establish common definitions, criminal procedures and common sanctions for the member states in cases of trafficking in human beings and crimes against children. our objectives are therefore to establish networks throughout the union and in the candidate countries between organisations active in the fight against violence against women and children, and to raise awareness among the european population as a whole of the nature of this scourge and of the need and means of eradicating it. at the dawn of the new millennium, i would say, mr president, that the european parliament's massive support for this programme will be the best way of showing that the union is giving the highest political priority to the effective fight against violence against children, young people and women.
commission - i am sure that the matter we have discussed today deserves a detailed examination by the commission, as well as by the union as a whole. as we saw in the last debate, the commission is already active in many areas relating to children, although the member states have the power to act in most of the important areas. children are a particularly vulnerable group. for example, the community has for many years supported countries with particular problems in terms of economic exploitation, abandonment or prostitution of children, through specific projects aimed at developing social assistance, protection, welfare, reintegration and education. in 1999, to mark the tenth anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, a high priority was given to children's rights in the framework of the european initiative for democracy and human rights, chapter b.7/7 of the union's budget. the commission is already implementing the daphne initiative to combat violence against young people and children, which will be followed next year, as we have just seen, by the entry into force of the daphne programme 2000-03. through the stop programme and its action in the fields of police and judicial cooperation, the commission is actively combating the sexual exploitation of children, including child pornography on the internet. in the field of police cooperation and the third pillar, the commission now has the opportunity to launch joint initiatives with the member states and is actively pursuing the fight against the sexual exploitation of children. in january, a joint decision was adopted establishing an action plan to promote safer use of the internet, thus protecting children from violence and pornography. it follows a 1998 recommendation on the protection of minors and human dignity. the commission shall implement these measures. in may, the commission adopted a communication on the implementation of measures to combat child sex tourism and selected a number of actions to be co-financed in this area. the commission also undertakes social and educational actions to improve the quality of life of children and their development and educational opportunities. the suggestion - which has sometimes been made - to create a 'children' unit within the commission will have to be studied, in particular to ensure that we take account of the financial and human resources at our disposal. the commission will also consider the possibility of publishing a communication on children to mark the tenth anniversary of the convention. this will obviously take some time. i am grateful for the opportunity to discuss this matter in a plenary session of the european parliament. the commission will study the reports of these debates carefully and will do its utmost to respond to parliament's concerns in order not only to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the convention but also to improve the concrete policies aimed at achieving its objectives.
- mr president, i agree with most of what has been said tonight. i remember, as many others do, the enthusiasm and political fervour that led to the adoption of this convention, the number of heads of state and government who were quick to show up with children and speak in glamorous terms of the future they offered them. i note with great sadness that most of these words have been lost. one of the main concerns of this convention is the right of the child to live in peace. the number of young people under 18 years of age who are conscripted into the military worldwide has already been advanced to 300,000. some of them are in our member states and do not have the opportunity to vote in electing the governments that decide their future. many children are working in conditions of slavery and forced labour; we call on all member states to ratify the ilo convention on these matters. we also call on all member states to adopt, at the next igc, a legal basis for the promotion and protection of the rights of the child as defined by the un convention. we also need to focus on another issue: the global situation in which these children are growing up, and most certainly the environmental conditions that many of them have to endure. it is essential that we meet and exceed the targets we have set for climate change control. for too many children, clean water, healthy food, and decent housing remain unattainable dreams, even when they live in so-called developed countries. we also believe that the priorities of our international financial institutions must be changed so that they give priority to environmental protection, health care and education over open markets. finally, the cancellation of the debts of the poorest countries would help young people in those countries considerably.
- mr president, there are many tragedies that shake our world, but none are as moving as those that affect children. none is as dramatic as the one we heard about today, namely the trafficking of children. i want to refer to one of these trafficking cases, the one involving the adoption sector. in the 1960s, there were 25,000 registered adoptions in the uk, of which 12,500 were of children under one year of age. in the 1970s, these figures had fallen to 13,000 adoptions, of which 3,000 were children under one year of age. in 1990, there was a further drop with 7000 adoptions, including 900 children under one year of age. the differences are largely explained by the widespread and more liberal practice of abortion. in britain, one in five pregnancies is aborted; in london, one in three. with more and more children being put up for adoption with disabilities - physical, mental, or behavioral - it is not surprising that some couples are looking elsewhere for a child to adopt. and in other places, there are babies available for adoption. our first duty is to put the best interests of the child first. when it comes to finding a family for a child, the preference is given to the child's natural family, if the child does not have one, then a family from his own community is chosen. if that's not possible, we'll take a family from a different environment but from the same country as the child. here, if no family is available, then, and only then, will we begin to look for a home abroad. however, it should be a loving and carefully controlled home, and the couple who will be responsible for the child should accept the child's past. the system has too often been abused and the couple's desires often put before the child's interests. so there was a growing trade in children, babies were stolen from their mothers, mothers were given money to separate from their children, mothers were deceived into believing that their children would have a good start in life and then return to their own family - of course, this was not the case. that is the reason for the hague convention on intercountry adoption. that is why i have asked the commission to ensure that the hague convention is properly applied within the european union. i would ask for a report to be drawn up illustrating the legislative practices in each member state and the legal practices in force. on the tenth anniversary of the convention on the rights of the child, we must act to protect the interests of these children, their right to be children. we must therefore help children in need because of illness, disability, hunger, poverty or lack of educational opportunities. so we must put an end to child labour and exploitation and the horrific trafficking of children. many of these tragic situations are caused by the cruelty or neglect of adults and the least that adults can do is, when a child has no family at all, to apply the provisions of the international convention by giving the child another chance through adoption.
- mr president, i could tell my friend mr pronk that if he wishes to speak to mr aznar, i would like to speak to mr blair. this is a majority proposal. we have problems with a number of governments. i would like to thank the commissioner for what she has just said. i now understand the meaning of the strategy she adopted. i hope that the delay in the submission of the revised proposal will allow us to make progress. i would say this, however: do not forget that if any part of this strategy involves a new proposal, largely different from the first, being presented after the end of this year, we, the european parliament, will have to be consulted once again from the start. remember that. there is one argument which adds to the list of important points you mentioned in your introduction and which has been taken up by my own government and others, i mean subsidiarity. that is not a very good argument in this area. in the decade before 1996, and following the introduction of the single act, there was a threefold increase in mergers and acquisitions in both the services and manufacturing sectors. it is interesting to note that two thirds of these mergers and acquisitions took place at national rather than international level. however, they were linked to the implementation of the internal market. developments at member state level are therefore intrinsically linked to the changes we have brought about at european level. this is one of the strongest arguments against subsidiarity - the obstacle to progress in this area. in the 1970s our governments, despite the rule of unanimity, adopted a directive on transfers, a directive on collective redundancies and a directive on insolvency in an attempt to bring about responsible restructuring in the wake of the oil shocks. it is frightening to see the council seemingly paralysed when it comes to this directive, worker participation in the company statute and the commission in the context of the revision of the directive on works councils. we need to start that process again.
- i would like to say at the outset, commissioner, that i very much appreciated what you said and i am as surprised as you are to hear me say it. but given that we have a deadline - which we have already deplored - i hope that it will be used constructively by the council, the commission and parliament and that they will consider how best to deal with this matter which clearly concerns a key area. i was concerned to read in the financial times last week, when you were in london - where you made an impression - that you were going to impose the creation of workers' consultation committees and that you had said that mrs diamantopoulou's decision was going to throw the british government and industry into disarray. if i accept that the disarray of these illustrious institutions does not mean that your proposals are automatically bad, i think you will also accept that it does not mean that they are good either. i would remind the commission that when these amendments were tabled by parliament last april, the composition of this parliament was quite different. the socialists were the largest group at the time; i am glad that is no longer the case and i hope that will not be the case for some time. but the composition of this parliament is undoubtedly very different and its conclusions are likely to be different. we will of course continue to work in the spirit of constructive consensus, but the epicentre of that consensus has shifted considerably. in conclusion, i would say that when we get to second reading, if we are serious about creating jobs, keeping our companies competitive, encouraging enterprise, then perhaps some of us will feel that we have gone too far and that it may be time to set a limit.
- i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs haug, for raising some crucial problems with the current own resources system. in her report, mrs haug rightly examines the arbitrary changes introduced by the commission in a roundabout way by means of a mathematical operation concerning the own resources ceiling. in the framework of the interinstitutional agreement, the council has reached a binding agreement with the european parliament on the percentage of gnp, namely 1.27%. the commission now declares that this figure is the present value. this is unacceptable. the rapporteur stresses that we should strive to establish a fairer system of eu funding. the community budget should have a fair system of revenue collection. traditional own resources, for example, are a systematic source of unfair burdens on member states and, as already mentioned, tend to induce fraud and excessive bureaucracy. the eu budget should instead be financed on the basis of criteria that improve the fairness of the system. that is why i would like to see a fair system of net contributions. i am speaking here on behalf of the socialist group, but if i were speaking as a british member of parliament, i would have doubts about the specific references to the british rebate. if the budget is to be fair, the net contribution systems and the expenditure systems should be fair too. unfortunately, we are far from it. i think that a serious attempt to reform the community's finances should begin by ensuring that all member states bear a fair share of the cost. until that happens, attempts to reform the own resources system will not improve the situation. that is why i want to see a proper reform of eu finances for the future. however, the reform cannot be limited to specific issues such as the british backstop and i am finding it difficult to discuss this issue in the new parliament at the moment. it is too early to make decisions on this and to bury them in the ground until we have all the facts.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the maastricht and amsterdam treaties both highlight measures to protect the environment. the commission's communication aims to take these considerations further into account in the energy sector. three objectives have been set: first, to promote energy efficiency; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. three priorities have been established to integrate these environmental objectives into energy policy. firstly, they must be implemented in a balanced manner, taking into account competitiveness and security of supply. secondly, they must be realistic and cost-effective. thirdly, the implementation of these objectives must be flexible to take account of rapidly changing markets and technologies. global warming is a major environmental problem, but it is obvious that it is not the only one we are facing. the energy and transport sectors are among the main contributors to emissions responsible for global warming. europe must do its part and set an example for the rest of the world, while recognizing that the greatest pressures on energy consumption will be exerted in the future by countries like the united states, which are rather lavish in their energy consumption, and by developing countries which, given their growing economies and living standards, will seek to increase their energy consumption, probably from polluting sources. the report therefore calls on the commission to promote best practice, encourage exchanges of views and experience and raise public awareness, while respecting the principle of subsidiarity. it must be acknowledged that energy policy is still to a large extent determined at the level of the member states. however, there is no doubt that energy efficiency is a topic that affects us all. the report also calls on the commission to support the process of mainstreaming these objectives into energy policy through research into the impact of climate change, research into all possible technologies, research into identifying the best indicators to measure the contribution to emission reductions and regular reporting to parliament. as regards possible legislative measures, the report calls on the commission to consider adapting existing legislation or introducing new measures that will reinforce these objectives. it also called on the commission to monitor and study the effects of all legislative measures so far and to report to parliament on their cost and effectiveness. the report also calls for environmental objectives to be taken into account in the enlargement process. energy consumption and electricity production in the candidate countries raise many concerns which need to be addressed. the report reminds us of the need to establish dialogue and consensus with our trading competitors, as well as developing countries, with a view to improving global environmental protection measures and significantly reducing emissions. the commission has omitted from its report a major aspect, namely nuclear energy. whatever your view of this energy and electricity source, it is a fact that it provides a significant share of europe's electricity without producing co2 or other greenhouse gases. that is why - and only because - this energy source was mentioned in the report. it would be unfortunate if this reference to nuclear energy diverted attention from the main objective of this report which is to improve energy efficiency, increase the supply from renewable energy sources and integrate our environmental objectives into our energy policy. it's a good start, and there's still a lot of work to be done.
- i'll make sure to pass along your remarks. i have no information on the subject but i will make sure that the president is informed of your concern. the quaestors are normally the ones who give permission for such meetings to be held. so i'm not aware of the situation.
commission - mr president, the commission is able to accept amendments nos 2, 3, 4 and 8 in their entirety. the commission can also accept, in principle, amendments nos 6, 7 and 9, the wording of which still needs to be clarified and reworked. the commission rejects only three amendments, amendments nos 1, 5 and 10. that is basically the commission's position.
commission - (es) mr president, as commissioner liikanen said yesterday during the debate on this report by mr lange, the commission can accept amendments nos 3, first part, 6, 7, 10, 16 to 26 and 29 to 47. it can accept, in principle, amendments nos 1, 4, 5, 13, 12 - both parts of amendment no 12 - and 15, but they will be subject to amendments. it rejects the content of amendment no 2, amendment no 3, second paragraph, and amendments nos 8, 9, 11, 14, 27 and 28.
in writing. - i respect the reasons why the representatives of the british delegation abstained on amendments nos 5 and 8 - concerning doctors in training - but i did not follow that line of action for the following reasons: firstly, it is a negotiable position and secondly, members of my family have been confronted with an extremely anxious and overworked nhs midwife, which prevents me from imposing on key medical staff longer working hours than are absolutely necessary.
in writing. -en) perhaps i should start by stating the historical and not circumstantial reason why i voted in favour of amendment no 5, article 1 (6) on doctors in training. my husband, dr. rhys jenkins, who is now a part-time general practitioner, once worked as much as 100 hours a week as a medical trainee. this firsthand knowledge of the problem made me aware of the dangers of forcing doctors to work such long hours. it puts patients' lives at risk and it can certainly have a negative effect on doctors' health. i believe that such a long and widespread transitional period as the council of ministers has proposed is unnecessary and inappropriate. in addition, there is a particularly acute problem in wales, where the medical association has estimated that 30% of doctors in training work more than the recommended 40 hours per week. in comparison, the estimated figure in scotland is as high as 10%. the profession is facing huge recruitment problems and a hemorrhage of doctors who travel to other countries because of excessive working hours.
in writing. - the members of the european parliamentary labour party abstained on amendments nos 5, 7 and 8 to the smet report on the working time directive. although the eplp members are committed to extending the scope of the working time directive, they understand the need to operate in a rational manner. we are committed to reducing the number of hours of work performed by trainee doctors but it is essential that this be done in a planned and structured way that does not jeopardise the care provided to patients. this directive will require an appropriate transitional period with progressive reductions in working time. flexibility was required for the fishing industry. this amendment does not recognise the reality of the requirements of the fishing industry and will have adverse effects on it.
in writing. - finally, we are filling a gap which dates back to 1993, when the working time directive was adopted. this legislation was a certain advance, but at the same time it excluded six million workers from its scope. these included personnel working in the transport sector, but also those working at sea (in particular offshore and 'doctors in training'). the exclusion of those workers was no longer tolerable in so far as the nature of their work did not differ from that of the workers covered by the provisions of the directive. the proposal we are discussing today therefore has a corrective purpose. the discussions were heated, particularly on the question of the offshore sector and doctors in training. in the latter area, the european commission's initial proposal proposed that doctors in training be brought within the scope of the directive through a seven-year transitional period. we have demanded that this be reduced to four years, with an intermediate limit of fifty-four hours per week (negotiable). this is the minimum that can be demanded if the nature of the profession is taken into account. it is the well-being of these doctors at work, the safety and health of their patients that are at stake! that is why we cannot accept the council's common position on this point, which calls for a transitional period of nine years! as for offshore workers, we have demanded that working hours can only be expressed in terms of an annual figure under collective agreements or agreements between the social partners. this provision will have to be reconsidered in the light of workers' health and safety within five years of the entry into force of the directive. the organisation of working time and the better reconciliation of work and private life it allows must benefit the greatest number of people. this is the condition for starting to talk about social europe. it's about time.
- this ends voting time. (the sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- if i may, this is not a procedural motion but i think this announcement is of historical importance. as members of this house are probably aware, david trimble of the ulster unionist party and gerry adams of sinn fein have made recent announcements. both have stated their commitment to the peace process and the surrender of arms in northern ireland. i am sure that the president will want to send a letter on behalf of the european parliament to all the parties to congratulate them on their actions, their courage and their determination to pursue the peace process and the surrender of arms and i am sure that you will agree with me that peace in northern ireland is a source of hope for everyone, everywhere in the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. - mr president, both reports under consideration acknowledge the increasing mobility of people and the increase in the number of contractual and commercial transactions throughout the union. as the internal market develops, citizens really need a legal framework that guarantees them access to justice wherever they are and whatever their problems. i shall confine my remarks mainly to the report on the transmission of documents. i agree with mr lechner that the regulations which formally governed this matter are about 25 years old; they're complicated and outdated. the increase in trade within the internal market is helping us to do this, and we need new, simple and secure regulations. when citizens or businesses have to go to court, they must take the first step of submitting documents, possibly to another court, before taking legal action. in this respect, we need simple procedures. as a lawyer in private practice in britain, i have often had to wrestle with piles of books to find the proper rules and the proper way to proceed with my clients' cases in these circumstances. the proposals under consideration are making progress but may not go far enough. my group will again table certain amendments which have been tabled in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market with a view to taking the matter even further, to making the system we are about to set up more rapidly available and open to professionals. we must remove this area of law from the hands of a few specialists who could charge very high prices for their services. we want to provide our citizens, everywhere in europe, with real access to justice so that they can start proceedings quickly and without difficulty when they are forced to go to court.
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, agenda 2000 and numerous opinions of the european council, the european parliament and other european bodies have repeatedly stressed that in order to join the european union, the candidate countries of central and eastern europe must ensure high safety standards in their nuclear installations. i repeat what i have said on several occasions: the commission is not prepared to make any compromises on the question of nuclear safety. the european union has left no doubt that nuclear reactors which were considered impossible to modernise because of fundamental design flaws will have to be shut down in preparation for accession. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste. over the years, the european union has provided considerable assistance under the phare programme. since 1991, the commission has financed, to the tune of almost eur 2 million, concrete actions aimed at rapidly improving safety. however, it also made many efforts to close down the reactors that could not be upgraded. it is in this political context that i would like to place the rest of my statements and first of all to inform you that two of the three countries concerned have made commitments to shut down the reactors. they've set concrete deadlines for this shutdown. negotiations are under way with the third country and i am hopeful that we will reach a solution before the european council in helsinki. in early september, the lithuanian government adopted a new national energy strategy which reiterates the commitment to close unit 1 by 2005 and to set the date for the closure of unit 2 as part of the next national energy strategy to be adopted in 2004. the commission assumes that block 2 will be closed by 2009 at the latest. on 5 october, the new energy strategy was adopted by the lithuanian parliament by a clear majority of 63 votes to 31. on 28 september, the slovak government officially informed the commission of its decision to move the date of closure of reactors 1 and 2 of the bohunice v 1 plant to 2006 and 2008. this decision was taken after slovakia invested more than eur 200 million in improving nuclear safety in recent years. i know some of your expectations about bohunice's closure seem to have been dashed. i take those concerns seriously. an earlier shutdown of the reactors would have been desirable. i must add, however, that the closure of nuclear reactors is not feasible anywhere overnight. it must also be clear that the country in question needs enormous technical and financial support. i should also like to stress that the community acquis in the field of nuclear safety, and in particular radiation protection, is very limited. at present, each member state and therefore each candidate country is free to choose its own form of energy production. the only principle to which all the members of the union must adhere is to ensure that the highest internationally recognised safety standards are met. the commission therefore considers that the decisions taken by lithuania and slovakia to close reactors in the field of nuclear safety constitute the necessary commitments to justify the opening of accession negotiations with them. this does not exclude the possibility of greater flexibility. the commission considers that the lithuanian and slovak promises are essential steps towards effective closure, but the objective itself has not yet been achieved. we are now focusing on the practical implementation of the closure decision. lithuania will have to adopt a law on this closure formally instructing operators to initiate the closure procedure. an action plan for the implementation of the national energy strategy is being drawn up. slovakia will also have to start planning for the closure. our cooperation with these countries will therefore move to the implementation phase. the commission has committed itself to providing financial aid - in the form of non-repayable grants under the phare programme for 1999 - for the closure of the two nuclear power stations in lithuania and slovakia. the main part of these grants will be paid through an international fund administered by the ebrd. from the year 2000 onwards, we plan to provide an annual grant of eur 20 million for each reactor closure. the commission notes that the aid is not intended to cover the costs of the closure of the plant, but rather to support the follow-up measures in the conventional energy sector. in lithuania, for example, the liberalisation and modernisation of the non-nuclear electricity sector is proposed to compensate for the closure of the ignalina nuclear power station. in its conclusions on the regular reports published on 13 october, the commission stated that it favoured the opening of accession negotiations with bulgaria in 2000. we recommend, however, that they be submitted to a decision by the bulgarian government before the end of 1999 on an acceptable date for the closure of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant and on significant progress in the process of economic reform. i would like to stress that the decision to close kozloduy is a decisive condition. it will be difficult to reach a consensus on the opening of negotiations with bulgaria in helsinki if this problem is not resolved. i am currently in close contact with the bulgarian government on this matter. there are signs of political will to reach an acceptable solution since the bulgarian government has accepted the possibility of deviating from the closure deadlines set out in the country's energy strategy. however, no significant progress has been made in the negotiations so far. as in the case of lithuania and the slovak republic, the commission is ready to assist bulgaria by providing similar facilities as soon as sofia has decided to close the dangerous reactors. the commission is also prepared to grant euratom loans for the modernisation and refurbishment of units 5 and 6 of the kozloduy power station. the granting of this loan is conditional on an agreement on a date for closure of the four former blocks. after this comprehensive report on recent developments in non-renewable nuclear reactors in the candidate countries, i would like to say a few words about the renewable and non-renewable reactors in the nis, the newly independent states. in the past week, the members of the phare management committee gave a favourable opinion on the commission's programme to release eur 11 million from phare resources to finance safety measures at nuclear power stations in the candidate countries and measures to be taken by the licensing authorities in the candidate countries. the commission intends to continue this support throughout the financial perspective for the period 2000-06. in parallel, the tacis programme will continue to provide financial assistance to beneficiaries to achieve the objectives of agenda 2000 and in particular to strengthen the safety culture, improve the management of spent nuclear material, work towards the halt and closure of chernobyl, the joint working group with armenia on the medzamor nuclear power plant and other measures. the commission knows - and i am sure the honourable members are of the same opinion - that the closure of nuclear power stations is a serious handicap for economies in transition and particularly for those countries which became independent states shortly after their separation from the soviet union. the commission considers it its duty to achieve this objective as quickly as possible. but we cannot do it all by ourselves. the international community must act together. it has an interest in the establishment of european safety standards. the member states and the international community will also have to offer assistance and advice to the candidate countries. the increase in safety standards for nuclear power plants, whether through renovation or the closure of reactors deemed unsuitable for modernisation, will continue to entail significant costs. the commission would therefore like to organise, together with the applicant countries, donor conferences with a view to setting up special funds for lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria. the first of these conferences, for lithuania, is expected to be held in early 2000. we urge member states and third countries, and in particular those with a regional interest in northern, central and southern europe, to contribute to these three funds. we will plan these funds carefully and will ensure in particular that the chernobyl reactor decommissioning fund, supported by the g7, will receive additional resources next year. we have achieved some results, but we still have a lot of work to do in the future. we must insist that nuclear security be given the highest priority at the eastern borders of the union. we now have a realistic prospect of the actual closure of the problematic nuclear reactors in the applicant countries. this is an economic and political duty. the european parliament can be sure that the commission will take up this task with the greatest urgency. i hope that the commission can count on your support in carrying out this difficult task, which is in the interests of our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his statements this afternoon on the commission's programme of work to improve safety at civil nuclear installations in central and eastern europe. i wonder, after listening carefully to the commissioner, whether his statements contained any new information. he has given us a wealth of details and has made many promises about the present and future. from the timetable he has given us, i can see that some reactors will be shut down prematurely in 2006 and 2008 - i will come back to the question of whether or not a reactor should be shut down and at what rate in a moment. i agree with the commissioner and the commission on the primacy of security issues. i think we can all agree that whenever it comes to nuclear power stations and installations, it is absolutely essential that safety, safety of operation, construction and design is the top priority. for obvious reasons, public opinion must be assured that this is the case. it is essential that countries that depend heavily on nuclear power plants for their electricity and energy see the shutdown programs spread out to give them time to plan for replacement facilities. in some countries, where reactors have had to be shut down, there has been a power outage that has caused severe shortages. we must take these considerations into account when discussing security issues. it is also necessary to take into account the fact that we are negotiating with sovereign and independent states and we must respect the course of their internal procedures. we find ourselves in a somewhat awkward situation when we tell them, ask them or help them to do things that we want to do but that they may be only slightly enthusiastic about. the question is: if a reactor can operate safely until 2006, why can it not operate safely for the rest of its economic life? if the reactor is not safe, it should be shut down immediately. that is the dilemma we must face. i have the feeling, with all due respect to the commissioner, that he did not address this dilemma this afternoon.
commission - (de) ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking you warmly for your wishes for a speedy recovery. it's really just a cold, not a political chill. i thank you for offering me an aspirin, which i will gladly take later, hoping that it will not cause me a stomach ache. the debate you have had confirms my position and i thank you for the very clear political support that has been shown in your speeches. in the negotiations we are conducting, it is of the utmost importance for the commission to be able to say that in the field of nuclear safety the european parliament sets the highest and most stringent standards. for the states with which we are dealing, this is an important argument because they know that in the end the european parliament must approve the accession negotiations, that nothing will be done without the european parliament and that the wishes of the european parliament in this matter are therefore of great importance. i would like to make it clear that we are focusing on reactors which the g7 expertise - in 1992, if i remember correctly - has judged to be unmodernisable, not because of safety deficiencies in their operation but because of their design. these are reactors which are neither safe by design nor can be upgraded, at least at reasonable cost. in all these cases, there is only one reasonable solution to the problem: closure, and certainly as soon as possible. anyone who considers these reactors to be a safety risk, and we believe that, should seek their closure, and the sooner the better. the only difficulty is that the negotiations on the acquis communautaire, the accession negotiations, provide us with nothing more than a means of political pressure. as i have already said, the european union has very limited powers in this area. so we are exerting political pressure, which means that what comes out of it will be a political solution. in order to achieve this political solution, it is not enough to consider what we want - i am fully aware that this is a very topical issue in some member states, and particularly in austria, as the debate has shown - but it is also necessary to consider that in the applicant countries this issue has in some way acquired a practically theological significance. in bulgaria, for example, i can tell you that the closure of kozloduy has been the number one issue for months, the issue that inflames all national antagonisms. in this context and in view of the balance of power in the country and the fact that the acceptance of the closure of kozloduy will be used against the government in the next elections - as will also be the case in lithuania and slovakia - i must really say that the steps taken by the bulgarian government so far have been courageous decisions. we cannot avoid finding a middle way, that is, setting a date that we could accept in an extreme case. in each case, this date must be clearly separated from the reactor's expected operating life. we have succeeded in this with ignalina and bohunice. i would like to say one more thing about bohunice, because for some time now people have been trying to drag me into this austrian debate. we will not succeed because i fully agree with the austrian position that we should try to achieve better results. wolfgang schüssel and i made this clear to the council yesterday. the austrian foreign minister raised this issue yesterday in the council. i said that i supported his position and that i fully supported all efforts to take full advantage of the available room for manoeuvre. the problem, as you are well aware, madam president, is that when i took office i was confronted with an agreement with slovakia. he was ready, he was committed. unfortunately, it was not made public until a few days after i took office. i could hardly criticize what the commission had negotiated with slovakia. it was impossible to react any differently than i did. but from the outset and on several occasions in this parliament, i have said that in the case of bohunice i believe that more discussion is needed and that the slovak government is suggesting that more could be achieved. some colleagues have raised the question of whether it is really sensible to invest in the safety of plants that we want to shut down. it is indeed a highly complex issue and, in my view, almost a matter of conscience. in recent years the commission has also made financial investments to ensure the safety of the plants we are discussing until they are shut down. the main focus of the actions was on improving the safety culture of these countries, establishing independent safety inspection authorities and training those responsible for carrying out these inspections. we have not financed any investment that would have extended the life of these plants in any way. there's no way that's going to happen. unfortunately, we also have to distinguish between the soviet-designed nuclear power stations in the candidate countries, which i have mentioned, and their counterparts outside the candidate countries. the leverage we have is very different. in the first case, the political leverage is very strong because these countries want to join the eu and we very clearly subject this membership to a solution to this problem that we consider to be defensible. in the case of russia, belarus, armenia, ukraine and other countries, we naturally do not have such a powerful lever. i am, however, firmly convinced that the european union must also work to raise safety standards in these countries. in fact, it's a terrible dilemma. we know that a nuclear power plant really needs to be shut down. however, we are faced with a political situation which makes this decision impossible. the question then is: are you doing anything to at least guarantee the safety or even improve the safety of the plant, knowing full well that this could lead to the plant you want to close being operated for longer than it would otherwise be? i must say that these are questions that can only disturb our sleep. our colleague was quite right. but when it comes to nuclear safety, i think that we cannot ignore any measures which might improve the current level of safety in any way. when we are faced with plants which we want to close but cannot close for the political reasons i have mentioned, i see no other option than to do what is necessary to at least eliminate the most glaring deficiencies, however difficult and complicated that may be. so that is my answer to the very fundamental question that has been asked in this chamber. we shall certainly be returning to this subject more often. i hope very much - and i am not saying this without reason - that the next time we discuss this matter i shall be able to report a situation which is clearly better than the present situation. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, let me just say to the commissioner that i liked his summary better than his opening statements. i congratulate him, particularly in view of his state of health. i say, "good for you, come back and give us more speeches like that".
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the decision taken at today's commission meeting.
the commission has today taken a decision, on my initiative, to take formal action against france for not lifting the embargo on british beef. this decision is without prejudice to the ongoing negotiations on the amicable settlement of the present dispute. i want to be very clear. we are very close to a solution and i am convinced that a friendly settlement is in the interest of all the parties, britain, france and the community. negotiations and contacts on the outstanding issues which continue to hamper the conclusion of an agreement are continuing. i hope that all parties, with a little goodwill, will see to it that the ban is lifted in the very near future. i am aware that there has been criticism, including within this house, of the discussions on this issue. however, such discussions are the best way of reaching a solution in a short time. the lack of formal procedures to lift the ban within the eu makes the situation even more difficult. the british efforts to lift the ban in third countries, including the united states and its commonwealth partners, confirm this. however, it is necessary that the commission formally informs france that it has not fulfilled its obligations regarding the lifting of the ban. i therefore ask france to submit its reply within two weeks. i have also informed the commission of the situation with regard to germany, the only other member state which continues to impose a ban on imports of british beef. however, in this case the german authorities did not state that they would not lift the ban. they stated, in fact, that a number of constitutional steps had to be taken, in particular the approval of the bundesrat. however, in the case of germany, positive action is also needed now to lift the ban. in this connection, i shall review the situation in the coming days with my services: germany will be asked to provide an indication as to the timetable for lifting the ban. i will insist that both countries receive equal treatment. in this respect, a communication will be sent to germany requesting it to propose a timetable for the lifting of the ban.
commission - this is the first step to be taken in accordance with the procedure under the old article 169, now contained in article 226. this article provides that a reasoned opinion must be sent before proceedings are initiated. however, this is the first step in the infringement procedure. it sets out in chronological order where we are now and how we got here; it then sets out the legal position, requests france to provide a reply and to state any arguments it wishes to put forward in the reply. all this must be done within a two-week time frame. as you are probably aware, a number of issues have been raised in the debates of the past few weeks. one of the problems raised was the testing, as you rightly mentioned in your question. you will remind us that during my hearing on 3 september before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection i stated my intention to establish diagnostic tests for bse throughout europe. that's always my intention. this point has also been brought to the attention of the parties involved in these discussions in recent weeks. as i mentioned on this occasion, one of the objectives of establishing such a testing system at european level is to ensure that there is an equivalent testing system throughout the european union in order to identify infectivity levels and, in particular, to identify what additional measures are needed. in this respect, the elimination of msds would be a particular theme that i keep in mind. as regards identification and labelling, one of the important issues we have discussed in recent weeks has been the traceability requirement in the legislation. it's an important question we debated in florence. this is also part of the esdp, it is our main concern and we have included it in our discussions.
- this is a sad day for parliament and the rule of law. i wonder if the commissioner can explain why he did not act more firmly and insist earlier that a unanimous scientific opinion is not negotiable. this parliament deals with laws; the people who elected us - and certainly in britain - expect the law to be applied and have been waiting since october. this is a very serious precedent for the european commissioner, as he is about to draft a white paper on a food safety agency. will all the unanimous opinions which will be transmitted to it by the scientific committees be negotiable in the future? i hope not. secondly, i would like to ask you what exactly are the problems that france raises. can the commissioner confirm that the problems raised by france can only result from clarifications and not from changes to the british date-based export regime?
- commissioner, thank you for assuring us that this is the first step in the infringement procedure. i spoke to some cattle farmers in my constituency today. these farmers have been forced to wait more than 14 weeks since 1 august and despite this, the meat they produce has still not re-entered the french market. now they have learned that they have to wait two more weeks until we know the french position. let me say frankly: have you not already taken note of the french position? is it not time for the commission to show itself to be inflexible towards the member state which is in breach? does the commission not consider that any other measure would give it an image of weakness and cowardice and undermine public confidence in the european union? could you make it clear at your press conference that you will use the law in its full force against the offending member state unless the ban is lifted?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. this committee is composed of 16 experts from most member states and is chaired by one of your compatriots. the opinion was unanimous and reinforced two previous opinions delivered by the committee. i am therefore convinced of the quality of the opinion delivered. i am also convinced that the french agency will also accept the agreement which all the parties are about to reach. if the agreement is reached, as i sincerely hope, it could very well mean the end of the difficulties we have been facing over the last six weeks.
- the commissioner's statements are very interesting. it rightly emphasizes that we want to avoid, if possible, prosecutions or recourse to the courts. however, if what the commissioner says is correct, that the parties may reach an agreement in two days' time, it is absolutely inexplicable that one of the parties is given two weeks to resolve this issue. we were told several weeks ago that the deadline was today - and the commission did indeed initiate proceedings. but for god's sake, commissioner, by saying today, and probably at your press conference, that there are two more weeks, you are making everyone believe that you have simply extended the deadline by two weeks. how on earth do you justify the fact that by initiating proceedings today you are also sending a signal to the french that they still have two weeks to make a decision on the matter?
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to express your views on the commission's proposal. it specifically provides for the sending of a reasoned opinion and also specifically requires a reply within two months. i thought two months was too long; i thought a month was too long. i thought a two-week period was appropriate. in this case, it is the deadline i mentioned in the letter, the first step in the procedure. i would say that this does not mean that two more weeks are granted. the decision taken today was to initiate proceedings. i said a few weeks ago that i would inform the commission of this decision. that is what i have done and that is the first step. it sets out the chronology of events, the legal position and requests the member state in question to reply within two weeks. no further time was granted. that is in the treaty of rome as amended and i cannot change it now - i can only shorten the period, which i have done. however, i must say that the fact that the letter states that the reply must be sent within two weeks does not prevent the negotiations from continuing and an agreement from being reached in the next few days, if possible. the fact that we are taking two separate paths, so to speak, does not in any way jeopardise the process. i must therefore assure you that in my view the two weeks mentioned in the letter do not suggest an intention to avoid negotiations or further discussions for a period of two weeks. these discussions are continuing in the hope of obtaining a result.
- i congratulate mr. byrne on his position. he will remember that i asked him last week in brussels whether he intended to bring proceedings today. clearly he did, and i'm glad he did. but he must understand the sentiments of this house. today half the conservative members are in this chamber to hear the commissioner's answers - and i must say that very few of my british socialist colleagues are present. to date, there are 86 infringement proceedings against france, so there is nothing new for this country. one of these infringement procedures concerns beef. could the commissioner tell us what he's returning from? secondly, has the uk government brought a claim for compensation, as it should, on behalf of the british farmers who are losing out in this case?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the european social fund. it is not really the commission's job to judge the competence of any person or state to initiate such proceedings. so i am not necessarily aware of such procedures. however, as far as i know, no such proceedings have been initiated. but i could be wrong.
- according to my calculations, and unless new members have joined the conservative party, the proportion of our group and their group is almost the same.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i must say that since i took office eight weeks ago, i have focused on the european union. as for the lack of keeping of records on livestock, etc., i think i understand from the way the dbes operates that it protects public health and ensures food safety in the context of british beef exports. i would also draw your attention to the fact that the statement of the scientific steering committee states that beef exported under the dbes is as safe as any other beef within the european union.
- this is a procedural motion. this case, which affects farmers throughout the united kingdom, is so important that we should certainly have more time to ask the commissioner questions. this is the first time he's been able to tell us very clearly that he's going to be prosecuted. may i ask that we have more time to ask the commissioner questions?
- mrs. lynne, we'll see what we can do about your proposal.
- i have just noticed that a member of parliament has attempted to intervene in a way which i consider rather inadequate. i think she was looking for the floor and, like many members, she did not have the chance to put a question to the commission. i therefore share the view of mrs lynne that this question time has not been long enough given the importance of the subject. however, i would ask you to confirm that it is not appropriate for members of this house - whether liberal or otherwise - to try to persuade you to listen to them. i think the services should make sure that this doesn't happen again in the future.
- thank you very much, mr mcmillan-scott. i hope my colleagues will realize that there are still more than 20 members who wish to put questions on this subject. i try to strike a balance between the political groups and between the nationalities to ensure that fair play prevails in the assembly. i think the commissioner did a good job answering the questions this afternoon. i give the floor to the commissioner for a statement on tobacco.
commission. - the question put by your colleague, mr samuli pohjamo, gives us the opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to recall the method we use to draw up the list of regions eligible for objective 2 and the programming procedures in accordance with the general regulation on the structural funds. as regards the list of eligible regions, i would like to remind you that the commission sent a letter to the member states on 1 july 1999, asking them to submit their proposals by 31 august 1999. at least i can say that we had not received many proposals by the end of that time. that is how i understand the concern you express, mr president, and which was also very strongly expressed by mr hatzidakis, on behalf of the committee on regional policy. is there a risk that delays in the submission of proposals by certain member states will penalise those who have done more to meet the deadlines than others? it is precisely in order not to penalise those member states which were able to present their proposals at an earlier stage and in an acceptable form, in accordance with the provisions of the regulation, that the commission decided to approve the list by group of countries. the commission's decision on the eligible regions for belgium, denmark, the netherlands and finland was taken on 26 october. i would remind you, however, that this decision is a decision of principle, since the member states must be consulted through the committees, in accordance with the regulation, before the commission's final decision is taken. only after this final decision can the programming process begin, in negotiation between the commission and the member states. i would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission will work on this programming with the greatest possible pragmatism. for example, i recently told the greek authorities in athens that in the programming of the next appropriations we would take into account, in a fairly substantial way, the dramatic consequences of the recent earthquake. i can say the same thing, referring to the french news, the equally dramatic consequences of the floods which have just occurred in four french departments. we can adjust or adapt the appropriations allocated to each of the countries of the union to take account of current events, especially when they have such consequences. the regulation provides for a period of four months for the national authorities to submit economic development plans and a further period of five months for the approval of these proposals. it is therefore expected that the first objective 2 programmes will be approved towards the middle of 2000. the same process will be followed for the remaining eight member states, which remain under objective 2. however, because of the additional deadlines for approving the lists - deadlines, as i have just said, for which the commission is not responsible - the approval of the programmes will have to take place during the second half of 2000 for most of these eight member states. ladies and gentlemen, no programme will therefore enter into force on 1 january 2000. i would, however, like to reassure those members who may be concerned that the investment activity on the ground will not be interrupted, since the resources for the current period, which is not yet completed, must be fully committed by 31 december 1999. the implementation of the projects of the previous period, which will end on 31 december, will therefore continue over the next two years.
commission - i think, mr pohjamo, that we have understood each other well. the situation in your country is particularly good, since the first proposals were the subject of a commission decision in principle on 26 october. we are in the process of consulting the committees, which include the other member states, and i will therefore be able to propose a final and formal decision for the approval of your country's objective 2 map before the end of this year, as i will probably do for the other three countries which were the subject of the commission's first decision on 26 october. i would remind you of belgium, denmark and the netherlands. the first half of next year will therefore be the time when investments can be made once we have concluded the negotiations with the authorities of your country on the programmes. i am therefore obliged to respect the general rules governing the structural funds, but as far as your country is concerned, i can assure you.
- i would like to assess the effectiveness of eu development aid to any third world country. will the commission answer my question if i take a third world country as an example and assess the effectiveness of our aid and the action taken by the delegation?
commission - (pt) mr president, the commission fully shares the concern of the honourable member about the problem of violence against women and the need to support the rehabilitation of victims and their families. the question of the criminalisation and punishment of violence is fundamentally a matter for the member states. all forms of violence, whether against men, women or children, are prohibited in all member states by virtue of their respective criminal codes. the council of the union, in its joint action of 24 february 1997 on action against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of children, calls on the member states to review the legislation and procedures in force in these areas in order to ensure that the types of behaviour in question are subject to effective criminal sanctions. at the end of this year the council will discuss the progress made by the member states on this joint action. since 1997, the commission has been responsible for the implementation of the daphne action, which is specifically concerned with the fight against violence against women, adolescents and children and which will be replaced by the daphne programme 2000-2003 (adopted today), the objective of which remains the same. the basis of this initiative is the urgent need to defend human rights, especially those of women and children. under this action, the commission supported a number of initiatives relating to the structural causes of violence, in particular men's practices and behaviour, and to assistance and rehabilitation measures for victims. the commission will continue to develop initiatives in this direction. the commission is also responsible for the stop programme, which aims to train and inform professionals, including judges, police and social services, in the fight against trafficking in human beings and the sexual exploitation of women. our main concern, beyond maintaining this line, is to implement the decision of the tampere european council, to find common definitions, charges and sanctions for crimes of trafficking in human beings and crimes of abuse against children.
commission - (pt) madam member, my opinion is clear and unequivocal: violence against women in the family must also be punished by criminal sanctions. it is up to the legal system of each member state to punish such behaviour. the opportunity to take stock of the situation you have just described will be provided when the council assesses, towards the end of this year, the results of the 1997 joint action in the fight against violence against women. as you said, and i agree with you, the causes of violence are many: social, cultural, economic; it is not just the european parliament that is responsible for the problems of the environment, but also the european parliament. it is true that the main action must be to denounce, warn and inform, both at national and community level, and that this action must be carried out by non-governmental organizations; the aim of our work is to raise awareness among public authorities, the police who receive complaints or not, the judges who have to judge each specific case, so that everyone understands the criminal nature of violence against women, even when it occurs in the family. i believe that certain concrete actions in the future daphne programme will respond precisely to this concern.
- i'd like to know if the commissioner agrees that education is crucial to dealing with violence against women? i would like to ask him if he is aware of the edinburgh city council's pilot project 'zero tolerance on violence against women' which has been taken up by many local authorities. the campaign emphasises that violence, whether inflicted for social, cultural or economic reasons, is unacceptable and should be treated as such by local authorities, social workers and the police. does the commissioner intend to examine this programme and disseminate it to the member states as an example of best practice in this very sensitive but important area?
commission - (es) madam izquierdo rojo, i fully agree, and i think that the tampere european council conclusions underline that there is a horizontal approach between the pillars covering immigration and asylum policies and the other policies of the european union, including development aid policy. i am sure that the commission will ensure the consistency of the union's external and internal policies - crossborder programmes and development aid programmes - and that it is also in the interests of the beneficiary states of crossborder cooperation - morocco and spain - that they come forward with proposals to address the same concern. i believe that this new approach to the coordination of internal and external policies and of programmes which support each other can be a very positive step forward for the union's action in these areas.
- the andalusian-gibraltar border has been the scene of absurd and unreasonably long delays in recent months. what measures is the commission taking or intending to take to ensure that travellers can easily and freely cross this internal eu border without excessive formalities?
- mr president, first of all i should like to thank mr solana and mr patten for their statements. i have the impression that in all these discussions on european security two aspects are being mixed up, defence capabilities and institutional arrangements, the one being, it seems, the hostage of the other. of course, we welcome any commitment by european states to modernise their armed forces and thus remedy the present deficiencies, which we are well aware of. but as mr solana has seen in his previous role, many of the allied states are not even fulfilling their obligations to nato in this area. these are problems that the alliance is already working to address through the defence capabilities initiative. the british armed forces are world-class, but they were over-used last year. i therefore do not see where the british government intends to find the resources to contribute to a new kind of european rapid reaction force as it proposes, unless it is pure deception, or at the expense of nato commitments. i must say that legitimate concerns about military capabilities will not disappear with the europeanisation of defence, which is an essentially political agenda and is an aspect of the european political integration process. the danger is that pressure will be put on the union to become the first organization to be called upon when the next crisis arises, with nato gradually relegated to the only remaining role of collective defence organization. nato's transatlantic dynamism and solidarity can only be preserved if it remains closely and continuously engaged in day-to-day crisis management. of course, since the europeans are not proposing additional forces, the capacity for autonomous action of the european union is mainly a matter of political decisions. the interaction between the two decision-making centres, nato and the eu, and its impact on transatlantic relations, will be decisive in this respect. can we really afford, strategically or financially, a double game of manpower and committees, a proliferation of euro-forces, or the inevitable waste and squandering of armed forces forced to conform to two operational doctrines and two planning regimes? the european union will not be encouraged to make more effective use of the non-military crisis management instruments at its disposal which could usefully complement nato's military forces by burdening it with defence responsibilities. as mr patten has said, this is the area which the union should promote. what we need is increased military capabilities within the well-established structures of nato, not an institutional geometry of european staffs. the aim is more effective security to which europeans and north americans each contribute in greater proportions. we must not recruit our armies under the pretext of political integration by putting them in a different uniform.
- mr president, kosovo has shown us four things in particular. firstly, that the european union is able to maintain a united front in times of crisis. secondly, through the excellent work of president artisari, the european union is capable of decisive diplomatic action. thirdly, that nato works well and, indeed, works even better when the united states is resolute and clearly takes the lead. but it has also shown us that, in the absence of such an initiative, europe must be able to act to preserve security on its own continent. fourthly, and finally, it has shown us that even though we spend on defence 70% of what the americans spend on it, we are almost totally dependent on their equipment, because we only have something like 10% of their capacity. this is partly because our equipment still largely meets the old cold war static defence principles, not the modern rapid reaction principles. unless this problem is solved, the whole question of a common foreign and security policy and a european defence identity is nothing more than a dream. i therefore welcome what has been said today, but i have a number of questions to ask which i would like to have answered, unlike what is normally done in this kind of debate. does mr solana agree with me that what we need above all is a review of european defence to assess our capabilities? does he agree that conscription is not compatible with a modern mobile force? does he agree that we need a council of defence ministers if we are to solve all these issues? does it finally accept that it is necessary to ensure convergence of member states' defence spending? mr solana also spoke of nato members who were not members of the eu. is he trying to tell us, as i believe, that turkey is indispensable to the success of the european defence initiative and that we should take this into account? i will tell mr patten that i welcome his comments on the question of armaments. that said, will the commission follow up its previous communications with decisive action in this area and does mr patten agree with me that the meteor missile project is vital for the future of the european defence industry?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. - mr president, allow me to thank mr schwaiger for his extremely complex report and, in particular, erica mann for coordinating a good deal of the work on the amendments to the report. the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport believes that in the case of seattle we must look at audiovisual services in their entirety. in europe, audiovisual services cover the cultural industries, which have a strong impact on our economies. nevertheless, our cultural industries have so far been seen, as i pointed out last month, as an appendage to many of the serious business problems that will be addressed in seattle. i think we must take the bull by the horns and admit that the cultural industries are no longer an addendum to these negotiations. they are in fact destined to play a pivotal role in the world economy and should therefore be treated as an engine of the economy, rather than an accessory. on this basis, the committee on culture feels that it would be particularly important to review seriously the structural framework in which we are currently operating. however, it is also important, in view of the weaknesses and shortcomings observed on the world market, that we maintain the position adopted in the uruguay round negotiations in order to ensure a level playing field on the entire world market in culture. while we maintain that it is important to look at the medium and long term, and to see how networks affect several sectors horizontally at once, the very complexity of these networks implies that we must also consider new instruments to be applied to the cultural industries in the context of a global economy.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, as a farmer, i have an interest to declare. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwaiger, who has invested a great deal in this excellent report. as rapporteur for the committee on development and cooperation, i have of course been interested in the implications of the new wto round for developing countries. i was convinced just a week ago that by negotiating vigorously, it would be possible to strike a good balance between reasonable protection of the european union's industries and agriculture on the one hand and market access for products from developing countries on the other. now that the united states and china have reached an agreement, i wonder what chance small countries like lesotho or swaziland have in a global market liberalized. only strong regional cooperation will give them a chance of survival. this round of trade liberalization comes at a time when the gap between developed and developing countries is widening. in fact, for a large proportion of the population in the poorest countries, there is no benefit to be had. the agenda for the millennium cycle is only about agriculture and services, but the commission would rightly like to see much more comprehensive negotiations. in agriculture, the eu will hardly be able to avoid further concessions on market access. the eu cannot both pay compensation to its agricultural producers and at the same time block market access for third countries. however, developing countries must improve their main environmental standards and recognize that this requirement is not a new form of protectionism. the committee on development wants wto rules that do not hinder eco-labelling schemes and green public procurement. it also called for the ilo and the wto to set up a permanent joint working group on trade, globalisation and labour. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. she would like to see animal welfare included in the negotiations. the united states must not be allowed to force the union to accept an agreement which would be detrimental to the developing world. the american domination of the wto must end.
- mr president, on behalf of the liberal, democratic and reformist group, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr schwaiger, on his outstanding work in developing an approach to this extremely important problem which is in line with the wishes of the majority, an approach which will have consequences for us all for many years to come. the eldr group remains clearly in favour of further trade liberalisation, the strengthening of the multilateral trading system and a broad negotiation covering a wide range of subjects, old and new. we hope that this report, when it is adopted by parliament tomorrow, will serve to make clear, at this crucial stage of the preparations for seattle, our political desire for a full round of negotiations. this parliament also has a vital role to play in allaying the public's legitimate fears about the consequences of globalisation. in some quarters, the misguided notion is growing that the wto is responsible for all the ills of globalisation. in reality, without the wto, we would not be able to put in place the global legal and regulatory framework that is essential to any coherent policy response to globalisation. without the wto, the law of the jungle and the law of the strongest would prevail, a result that critics of the world organization would certainly not appreciate. for all these reasons, we have tabled a number of amendments to the report, with the aim of encouraging the establishment of new wto rules in areas such as the environment which are now directly affected by international trade policy. we have supported all efforts to strengthen the role of developing countries in the world trading system, particularly by stressing the urgent need to continue the reform of the common agricultural policy. we have also stressed, and will continue to stress, the need to ensure greater transparency in the wto and greater accountability of the commission to the european parliament for the conduct of trade policy. to this end, parliament must at least have an automatic right to be seized for agreement on any arrangement concluded within the wto and a much wider right of access to negotiating letters examined by the council. at the same time, the eldr group has resisted all attempts to overload this report with lists of sector-specific requirements. that is why we shall vote tomorrow against the passages in the report calling for exceptional treatment for either sector. we must bear the consequences of our support for a broad round of trade negotiations. extensive means covering everything, not crammed with exceptions. i will end with a word about china. late sunday evening, a bilateral agreement was reached between the united states and china regarding china's membership in the wto. we have every reason to believe that china's entry into the wto will have as big an impact as anything else that happens in seattle. the question of china's membership of the wto is inseparable from our discussion of the union's position in seattle. the eu is in the delicate position of being the last major wto player to have failed to reach an agreement with china. an optimistic interpretation would be that europe is now in a position of strength to exploit and build on the concessions that washington has already obtained from china. however, the fact that the european commission's negotiators, barely a week before the conclusion of the agreement with the united states, were reportedly sceptical about the likelihood of china's accession in the near future may suggest that the european union has not negotiated as brilliantly as one might hope. the risk now clearly exists for europe to be put on the back foot in its negotiations with china. the eldr group has always strongly supported china's accession to the wto, but not at the expense of europe's legitimate interests, which do not always converge with us commercial interests. i therefore call on the commission to inform parliament urgently of the progress of the negotiations with china and how they might affect our preparations for seattle, so that we can make an informed decision tomorrow when we vote on the schwaiger report. without losing sight of these few important reservations, i would like to confirm the overall support of the eldr group for mr schwaiger's report and to renew our sincere thanks to him.
- mr president, in his introduction mr schwaiger says that the objective of the world trade organisation is the freedom of trade. but trade is not an end in itself. it is a means to an end, and that end must be sustainable development. so what good is 17 times more trade if it does not benefit the poor and does not promote sustainable development? the uncomfortable truth is that there are winners, but also losers, in global trade. many of these losers are poor people who see their land being taken over by large commercial companies, or who are deprived of their livelihood by the new, often unfair, competition from cheaper imports. that is why my group believes that before we embark on new trade negotiations in seattle, we should first make a full study of the social and environmental consequences of the liberalization which has already taken place following the last round of negotiations, the uruguay round. we also need to act more decisively to ensure that the poor are the true beneficiaries of global trade. i will say frankly that the report is still insufficient in this respect. we want duty-free access for all products from the least developed countries, not for virtually all products, as the text of the resolution says, because that phrase opens a huge gap for the eu to continue to protect its agriculture. we must put an end to the terribly damaging dumping of subsidized agricultural exports on the markets of developing countries. we must ensure that the commitment of the industrialized countries to give special and differential treatment to the less favoured countries becomes legally binding. but above all, when we have evidence that global trade rules are destroying the livelihoods of the poor or harming the environment, we need to change those rules. i would like to make it clear that free trade does not necessarily mean fair trade. we can only look to the case of the caribbean banana producers, who are among the most vulnerable producers in the world and whose access to european markets has been declared contrary to wto rules, with the consequence that their livelihoods have been lost. so i repeat, whenever global trade rules destroy people's livelihoods and harm the environment or animal welfare, those rules must be changed.
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. i would like to ask you if, as you look around this house to see how many voted for and how many voted against, any political preference is influencing your assessment. i am sure that it is not, but i cannot bear to see my british socialist colleagues feeling embarrassed by the vote they have just taken, some of whom voted against the uk's repayment.
in writing. - as chairman of the committee on budgets, i am obliged to vote in favour of the amendments of that committee. in committee i voted against the amendments which called into question the rebate in favour of the united kingdom. if i had to vote as a labour member of parliament in plenary, i would have voted again as i did in the committee on budgets. but i have a duty as president to support the position of my committee and that is why i voted for the haug report.
in writing. - i welcome any measures designed to alleviate the pain and suffering of divorce, especially when children are involved. these commission proposals help to fill in some of the gaps in the hague convention, which would certainly need to be updated. with european legislation making it easier for citizens to move across europe to live or work, the number of crossborder marriages, and unfortunately also of divorces, is increasing. like my colleagues, i am receiving an increasing number of letters from people in my constituency asking me to help them with divorces involving spouses from other member states. often there are children involved, and then the seemingly never-ending custody battle begins. moreover, once judgments have been made, their implementation often causes problems. in the current legal jungle, some parents have even broken the law and taken the children away from their former partners. but with these suggestions, the grief can begin to give way to hope. by simplifying procedures and making decisions in matrimonial matters under european law legally binding and directly applicable in all member states, the new regulation will speed up justice and put an end to all these long and heartbreaking cases. meps cannot claim to stop the grief caused by separation or divorce, but they can at least try to stop the legal circus that often accompanies separation or divorce. the welfare of the children must take precedence over that of the lawyers.
- madam president, allow me to start by congratulating mr schwaiger on his excellent report. the round of negotiations which is beginning in seattle is being called the "development round" for the new millennium. i was born in a developing country in asia, one of the poorest regions in the world, and i represent the south-east of england, one of the richest regions in the european union. so i believe i can appreciate, understand and acknowledge the aspirations of the developed world and the developing world, recognizing, on the one hand, the enormous benefits of free global trade and, on the other hand, the imperative need to manage the transition and to equip the developing world with the tools and the power it needs to become an equal partner in globalization. the multilateral trading system was established in havana in 1948 as the general agreement on tariffs and trade. eight rounds of trade globalisation negotiations have contributed to global prosperity. since 1951, world trade has increased 17 times, world production has more than quadrupled, world per capita income has doubled, and average customs duties have fallen from 40 to 4 percent in industrialized countries. today, a further 50% reduction in customs barriers, including agricultural subsidies, would add more than us$ 370 billion to the annual global prosperity gains, 60% of which would go to developing countries. however, globalisation must be a win-win situation for all. there shouldn't be winners and losers. everyone should be a winner. it's possible, but how do you do it? this requires a multilateral system that is fair, transparent, accountable and that links trade and development. it should take into account the impact of liberalisation on investment, competition rules, abusive subsidies, inadequate labour standards, environmental protection, intellectual property rights, trade facilitation, public procurement, improved access to agricultural markets, improved access to commercial markets including services, consumer protection and capacity development. the european union is unique in its history of relations with countries around the world. i am thinking of britain with the commonwealth and france with the french-speaking countries. we can send a clear message to seattle that this is a sign of the contribution that this house and its members can make to world trade.
- madam president, like others, i welcome the excellent work of mr schwaiger on a very complex set of issues. i also particularly welcome the fact that in his text he calls the next round of wto negotiations the development cycle. it is true that two thirds of the wto's 134 members are developing countries and that 32 more are waiting to join. it is equally true, however, that commercial commitments often favour the largest companies. they have much more to offer and their bargaining power is far greater. many developing countries feel that free trade has not really been for them. while the most important of them are looking for export opportunities, access to the northern markets remains limited. the acceleration of globalisation is a reality. however, it must be analysed and recognised that international trade is complex and characterised by protectionism and a system which does not pay sufficient attention to the consequences of subsidised agriculture for the poor. while we obviously need to support the agricultural sector in the union, as mr schwaiger's report makes clear, we also need to recognise the need for developing countries, beyond the search for markets, to have access to food security so that people can eat to their full. i therefore hope that the amendments tabled in this spirit will be accepted. the european union already has binding commitments to developing countries. these commitments, like the international development goals, should be the focus of the debate in seattle. we are now, mr lamy, at a critical stage in the negotiations for the renewal of lomé iv and we will soon be embarking on a series of complex discussions on our trade relations with 71 acp countries. it is therefore very important, as we negotiate a multilateral trade framework which respects this vital relationship with the developing world, to keep reminding ourselves of our commitment to the acp countries. i will also ask the commission and the member states to try to obtain, within the framework of the wto, a binding commitment allowing, by the year 2003, a duty-free regime for all exports from the least developed countries to european markets. it is also urgent to ensure that small, vulnerable countries, i.e. landlocked countries, are protected in future arrangements. a director-general of the wto recently said that the wto must be an organization where the little ones not only have a say but also feel protected and defended. i hope, mr lamy, that you agree with this very important principle.
- mr president, may i congratulate mr schwaiger on his work. while emphasising that we need as wide a millennium cycle as possible so that everyone can find their way around, i would like to draw attention to three aspects. i am pleased that parliament, the commission and the council have put animal welfare at the forefront of their discussions. it is an important subject for the citizens, it is an important subject for many of us in this house, and it is important to discuss it in seattle. i think we also need to learn from the multilateral investment agreement. of course, it will be possible to discuss competition and investment in seattle, but it will be important to do so in a spirit of transparency and openness. the wto must explain to its citizens what it is doing, or it risks undermining support for free trade. it is equally important to have as wide a consultation as possible, to allow different points of view to be expressed and understood when we talk about competition and investment. thirdly, there is the dispute settlement system. this system was an unquestionable success of the uruguay round, but it also has some shortcomings. seattle must fill all the gaps it presents, this time again in the name of transparency and greater certainty about the rights and obligations of all parties involved in the settlement of a dispute. this should make a major contribution to trade liberalization. in conclusion, we must never forget that in the context of globalisation, we are very often dealing with problems which are close to the human being: living standards, the environment, culture, morality and ethics. some fear the wto, some fear globalisation, some fear the progress of growth, markets, technology, science. i am convinced that by working together in a spirit of openness, with the common goal of a better quality of life for all people on the planet, we can really refute the critics of globalisation and prove that globalisation and liberalisation can indeed be a decisive force for good.
- mr president, this intergovernmental conference will be supported by two parallel processes: the establishment of a european defence policy and the definition of european citizenship in the context of the drawing up of the charter of fundamental rights. i am sure that these two processes, different but nevertheless closely linked, will galvanise the igc, as did the progress towards the single currency which stimulated the maastricht conference. and it is obvious that we need to step up the pressure. as it stands, despite the goodwill of the rapporteurs, parliament's proposal threatens to be even more conservative than the commission's. the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party therefore tabled several amendments which aim to better target the report and to speed up the establishment of a parliamentary europe. firstly, we want a genuine process of conciliation between parliament, the commission and the council in the preparation of the igc. secondly, we want to change the procedure for revising the treaties in areas where there has already been a transfer of competence to the european union. it is incredible that we have to go through the long and arduous procedure of revising the treaties every time we merely pretend to revise a common policy. it is not right that parliament should be excluded from this process. thirdly, we want to improve citizens' access to the european court of justice, so that citizens are privileged complainants on an equal footing with us, the member states and businesses. fourthly, we call for a review of the clauses on cooperation flexibility, so as to allow some member states to deepen their relations in practice without compromising the acquis. i recommend the liberal proposals to parliament.
- mr president, my group welcomes this report, especially for the two main points it contains. firstly, it defends the principle of an igc covering other topics than the three questions left open in amsterdam. although these are essential and crucial, we believe it would be right for the igc to go further. it is an idea which is making its way, partly thanks to the dehaene report and the commission's proposals - i take this opportunity to pay tribute to mr barnier who is here - and which is also making its way, rightly, among national governments. of course, no one would want a comprehensive igc covering all the union's issues, in the maastricht style, but there are serious arguments for adding to the agenda a half-dozen important issues that need to be resolved if we want our union to function efficiently, transparently and democratically and be able to face its enlargement to almost 30 member states. secondly, the report advocates more democratic procedures. amsterdam was already, to some extent, an improvement on previous igcs in that the igc had been prepared by a think tank in which parliament participated and which had published a comprehensive report, that every proposal submitted under this igc had been published and made public, and that parliament had been allowed to send two of its representatives, at least to some meetings. but now is the time for us to be able to send representatives of parliament to all the meetings and to participate in the igc on the same basis as the commission, as a community institution, to present our positions, to defend our proposals and, where appropriate, to argue against the proposals of others. mr president, my group has tabled only two amendments and two requests for a split vote on this report because we think that the report strikes a good balance between ambition and realism. one of these amendments is to reinstate in the report the request to the igc to review the question of cooperation flexibility. it is unthinkable that we are moving towards a union of nearly 30 members without the igc reviewing this question. with almost 30 member states, we need a clause on flexible cooperation that is really workable. the second amendment concerns the separation of the treaty text into two parts: the constitutional part, which contains the main principles and institutional provisions, and the part devoted to the union's policies. this idea has broad support. where opinions differ, however, is as to whether this second part could be amended by a simplified procedure. our amendment proposes that certain sections of this second part could be amended by a simplified procedure: perhaps not all sections, because that would pose insurmountable problems, but at least some of them. there are several cases in the existing treaties - protocols, chapters of the ecsc treaty - where amendments are possible by a simplified procedure, and this is a matter which the igc should approach constructively. mr president, the treaties are the constitution of the european union. they must be clearer, more transparent, more efficient and more democratic. this is a challenge that the igc must meet.
- mr president, allow me to thank the president-in-office, mr sasi, for his remarks at the beginning of the debate. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia and the situation in the former yugoslavia. it also confirmed that, in the context of the igc, enlargement would be at the heart of the planned reforms of the treaties and that the timetable would be respected. i think there are two important aspects to this. firstly, on enlargement, we are talking about an enlargement of a completely different dimension and nature from anything we have known before, which of course influences the character of the igc as it prepares for this enlargement. in general, we are talking about the countries of central and eastern europe which, as we know, have experienced forty years of dictatorship, with a civil society that has been emasculated, condemned to secrecy and reduced to nothing. although ten years have passed since then and much progress has been made, i believe that there is still a great deal of work to be done in the area of trust and that we must, when preparing and implementing reforms, show the openness that many of us wish to see. there are therefore two aspects which we in this parliament should not lose sight of when the igc is held. the first is that in the past the igcs have not prepared public opinion for the final agreement on the reforms of the treaties - i am thinking in particular of maastricht - which has had unfortunate consequences in several member states. i think we must learn from this mistake and realise the need to make our public opinion aware of the profound implications of the forthcoming enlargement, the reunion of the european family, at the same time as the igc. i also think that this spirit of openness should be extended to the candidate countries themselves. it would be most regrettable if we, the eu institutions, were to see it only as a bureaucratic or constitutional exercise in our own interests and for our own benefit. it is precisely in the context of enlargement that openness must be shown. i am therefore convinced that, wherever possible, the national public opinion of the union, but also that of the applicant countries of central and eastern europe, should be involved at all stages of enlargement. i understand that this is not really in the tradition of an intergovernmental conference as we have heard it up to now. but, as i said, this time the igc is very different and we have to be imaginative in the way we present ourselves to the public.
- mr president, i think that before mr dupuis gets on his high horse and makes such exaggerated accusations, he should first check what really happened. the fact is that the napolitano report was not available in all the languages 24 hours before the debate and before the vote, as required by rule 115. in order, therefore, to preserve the rules of procedure which apply to this parliament and to each of its members, and at the same time to preserve the rights which the rules confer on members, the socialist group and the liberal group, with the support, as announced, of the epp group, have asked for the application of rule 112 on the emergency procedure, in order to be sure of acting in accordance with the rules of procedure. the house will be called upon to decide on this proposal tomorrow morning. it will be for the commission to decide whether we can apply the urgency procedure to this report. there's nothing undemocratic about that. we respect the rules of procedure and we respect the opinion of the majority of this parliament. the question that one might be entitled to ask is what motivated those who, from the beginning to the end, tried to sabotage this report, tried to block it, used every possible ruse, every possibility that the regulation offers to get the report postponed. i wonder why the prospect of the right for olaf to check that members are properly discharging their duties in this parliament scares them.
the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the tampere summit. the list of objectives and broad lines for the next operational plan for the years 2000 to 2004 is substantial. i think that these guidelines will enable us to obtain very effective measures in this work quite quickly.
- europol, as you have mentioned, is only a centre for the collection and exchange of information. do you think it should be given the operational powers to monitor the movements of drug traffickers throughout europe?
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i would say that nuclear energy, if used in a reliable, safe and controlled way, is not dangerous. the risks associated with nuclear power stations have also been carefully studied in the associated countries. the measures requested or required by the commission concern precisely those installations where safety risks have been identified. unfortunately, i am not very familiar with the nuclear power plant project in morocco and cannot comment on the possible risks it may entail or whether it will be carried out in such a way that the risk factors are not sufficiently taken into account. we will endeavour to ensure that such a project meets all nuclear safety requirements and thus poses no danger to the canary islands region.
- mr president-in-office, i am pleased to hear you say that nuclear energy is safe energy. it is not possible to expect countries which generate 30% to 40% of their energy from nuclear sources to replace it with renewable energy, whatever the financial or economic conditions, or with the burning of fossil fuels, without enormous new environmental damage in these already heavily polluted countries.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the public register of documents, established by a council decision of 19 march 1998, was launched on the council's website on 1 january 1999. more than 35,000 people had already visited the site during the first half of 1999. six months after it was launched, it already contained information on 43,000 documents. the register has proved to be an effective and reliable means of informing the public about council documents. the effect was to increase the number of document requests considerably. this is now more than double the figure for 1998. this register of documents has therefore been available to citizens on the internet since the beginning of the year. the council is currently studying the possibility of improving the functioning of the register, for example by making non-confidential documents available directly on the internet. it should be noted that so far the council is the only institution to have set up a public register of its documents, in accordance with the recommendations of the european ombudsman.
- i am very disappointed with the progress made by the council. since you boast of 43,000 documents, i wonder if you actually visited the website. so far, the mountain has only given birth to one tiny mouse. 43,000 documents, that sounds impressive, but anyone can produce 43,000 documents. what matters is what's in them. they're coming to the dropper. there is no way of knowing how the votes in the council went. it's still a secret. it is impossible to find a record of what was actually said in the council. it's still a secret. what you've done so far is clearly insufficient. in reply to the previous question, mr president, you said that transparency was one of the main priorities of the finnish presidency. the finnish nation is famous for its openness, but we are now in november, the penultimate month of your presidency, and the situation with regard to council documents is still as dire as ever. could you please make sure that you improve the record of these documents which, as i said, is a very small mouse? we're way off the mark.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, according to the information i have received, a monthly summary of the votes is now available; this summary allows citizens to know how the council proceeded. i would also like to say that the public can now consult the register of council documents on the internet, which therefore contains the references of the documents. i would like to reiterate, however, that the relevant council bodies are examining the possibility of improving public access to council documents so that documents other than those classified as confidential are directly accessible on the internet. the presidency is in any case in favour of this idea and i am convinced that the council will do everything in its power to make its work as transparent as possible.
- i would like the president-in-office to confirm that at present the press releases issued by the council at the end of each of its meetings do not contain information on how each country voted. does the finnish presidency not think that, given that a number of council meetings are still scheduled before the end of its presidency, it could use this opportunity to set a very useful precedent and establish its credibility in terms of openness - which at the moment, i fear, is not very solid - by at least ensuring that the press releases published after council meetings accurately reflect the meaning of each country's vote on each item on which there has been a vote?
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the council has already expressed its concern to the burmese authorities on several occasions about the situation in the country, most recently at its meeting on 11 and 12 october, when it renewed its common position on burma for six months and again called on the burmese government to take concrete measures without delay to promote respect for human rights, democracy and national harmony. the council expressed its full support for the forthcoming mission of mr alvaro de soto, the special envoy of the un secretary-general, and decided to review its common position on the basis of the results of his work.
- the council isn't doing so well, is it? that answer is very disappointing. i was asked by the penzance branch of amnesty international to ask this question. she took a political prisoner under her wing, thet win aung. i have mentioned her name because her case illustrates what is happening in myanmar. thet win aung was a student leader and was recently sentenced to 52 years in prison, which has now been increased to 59 years. he was arrested in october 1998. his whereabouts are unknown and his family is under tremendous pressure. my question to the council is this. in view of this terrible history, would the council agree to consider pressing the government of myanmar to declare a full amnesty for such political prisoners and, in close connection with what i have just said, has the council ever discussed the possibility of economic sanctions against myanmar until it adopts a more humane policy?
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the council, like the other institutions, exercises its powers under the conditions and for the purposes laid down in article 5 of the treaty establishing the european community and in the provisions of the subsequent treaties and acts amending or supplementing it, and, secondly, in the provisions of the treaty on european union. decisions in the council shall be taken in accordance with the voting rules laid down in the treaties referred to above. the increased use of qualified majority voting in the council is one of the topics on the agenda of the intergovernmental conference to be held in early 2000. the european council adopted a decision on this subject at its meeting in cologne on 3 and 4 june 1999. the protocol annexed to the treaty of amsterdam on the institutions and enlargement of the european union provides for the holding of this conference. the question put by the honourable member is therefore not a matter for the council but for the conference of representatives of the governments of the member states.
- i would just like to follow up on the answer of the president-in-office of the council to this question by referring to the luxembourg compromise, which we hardly hear about any more. this question asked the council what it thought of federalism, the abandonment of sovereignty in favour of the qualified majority. is the luxembourg compromise still considered to be in force and to be respected, and do you not think that it should be? i mean the compromise that it will not be overridden by a majority vote in the council. that's how i understand the compromise.
- madam president, yesterday's minutes in the english language also seem to indicate that this is the minutes of thursday 17 december. i am sure that parliament cannot draw up today's minutes before the debates and votes have actually taken place. i hope that will be corrected.
president of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, justice and social affairs. -en) this proposal for a council regulation is an important proposal. my committee has worked very hard to ensure that parliament's reply is ready within the time limit set by the council and that the council can discuss it on 2 december. if we have time to debate this report this morning, then we shall have to vote at lunchtime. this will allow parliament to give its reply in time for the council to discuss it. on the other hand, if this debate cannot take place this morning, if there are too many speakers for the napolitano report and the giannakou report, then i would support mr pirker's proposal not to vote tomorrow. this is too important a matter to be voted on on a friday, even though i will be there personally. i am not sure that those who, in my view, have a problem with this report, such as the french delegation from the socialist group, will still be here tomorrow - we should ask them. however, if it is not possible to vote today, i would ask the parliament's services if it is possible to schedule the debate for this evening and the vote for wednesday of the december part-session, so that we can convey the result to the council on thursday; and could we also ask the commissioner to intercede on our behalf with the council on this matter?
- mr president, the vast majority of my group supports this report which we regard as a cornerstone in restoring the credibility of the european union in investigating and dealing with allegations of fraud. without going any further, this report may at least prove that most, if not all, of these accusations are often unfounded. this report applies to parliament a text which received the assent of the last parliament, which was approved in principle in plenary when we authorized our president to sign it, which was signed by all the institutions and which now applies to all of them except parliament. in parliament it received unconditional support from the committee on constitutional affairs at the first debate, and at the first debate on the subject, each of the main political groups gave their support to the proposal. at the last minute we had some difficulties and the proposal was reviewed by the committee on constitutional affairs, but i think the difficulties and concerns have been overcome. i should remind you that the provisions applicable to members of parliament are, to quote the text: 'without prejudice to the provisions of the treaties establishing the european communities, in particular the protocol on privileges and immunities'. there is also an explicit reference in the preamble to the protocol on privileges and immunities and there is a reference to the fact that the article in question does not prejudice the confidentiality requirements which may be laid down for members of the european parliament. our position as members of the european parliament is safeguarded in this respect, and those members who feared that this was a kind of snooping charter or a new right for officials to make confidential reports on members in the context of far-fetched accusations can be reassured. the reports will have to be sent to olaf, will have to be examined thoroughly and will have to protect the position of the members. if we fail to approve this today, we find ourselves in an untenable situation where only members of the european parliament will be above the law: a text which applies to politicians and council officials, to politicians and commission officials, which would apply only to officials and not to members of the european parliament. that would be totally unacceptable and would destroy the credibility of this parliament. it is essential that this report be adopted today.
- mr president, i have to say that i have full respect for the sincerity and passion of those who oppose this report. serious cultural problems have come to light in this parliament in the debate on this matter. my group has examined it carefully and we have concluded that this is an implementation of the agreement that the house has ratified on parliamentary immunity, which guarantees that our privileges cannot be abolished without following a well-established procedure. all the points in the amendments are already largely covered. parliament's assent to this matter is already five months late, and the public would simply not like it if we again refused to move forward on this matter and create a strict but fair regime for parliament and the other institutions.
- the liberals in this house have a number of concerns about the draft protocol in this draft regulation. it risks blurring the distinction between asylum seekers and other types of immigrants. it risks diminishing the protection of those who need it by misleading them to immigration procedures rather than asylum procedures. some 'legal shadow areas' remain. the extension of eurodac to persons who are not asylum seekers is, in theory, beyond the scope of the dublin convention, for example. we run the risk that this protocol, this regulation, will be unworkable. member states will have little incentive to fingerprint third-country nationals staying illegally on their territory if they risk becoming responsible for them. finally, there is a certain lack of clarity in the terms used, such as 'irregular crossing of an external border' or 'being illegally present on the territory of a member state', etc. however, we feel that the debates in this house, in our committee, have led to a good report which has the support of most of the groups and i would like to congratulate the author. the liberal democrats will support this report. we will not support amendments nos 13 to 20: although we share the concerns expressed about fingerprinting, we believe that preventing the creation of a register will not allow us to meet the challenges we face in realistic terms. let me say a word to mr schulz who raised the question of liberality. it is time for reason and sound argument. mr schulz cannot deny that we have a challenge in the union with regard to the number of people who are illegally in the territory of a member state. we need to find a way to solve this problem while preserving civil liberties. we believe that this report does so and that is why we are happy to support it.
- the rapporteur stated in his introduction that the aim was to implement the dublin convention and to have a fingerprinting system. my group agrees in principle, but we are asking for certain guarantees. mr pirker also said that the aim was to avoid social abuse of the system. here too my group agrees, but we need certainty and that is why these guarantees are necessary to ensure that no abuse will be committed by the authorities either. i think that some members on the right of this house want to blur the lines and erase any distinction between asylum seekers and illegal immigrants from third countries. i am disgusted by the use of the word 'foreigner' and by the word used in the english translation of the text. in english, the word "aliens" refers to people from other planets, and, in all honesty, they pose little problem for us at the moment. it seems, however, that there are members who have no sympathy for any of the groups - and if there were people from other planets, i bet they would have little sympathy for them either. the safeguards and amendments we require are designed to ensure that any information collected is properly handled and that this information is intended to be deleted if asylum seekers are granted asylum or have their situation regularised. as for the age limit, it is difficult to determine at what age one becomes an adult, but there seems to be a fairly reasonable consensus around the age of 18. mrs mckenna said in her passionate speech a few minutes ago that we must ensure that asylum seekers and others are not treated as criminals. we certainly want to ensure that this system is used to help the most vulnerable members of our society. i understand, as we all do, that you cannot leave your family and home to travel thousands of miles across europe for no reason. it is not a matter of whim, there are real reasons for these movements and we must accept and respect the fact that these people need support and assistance. i hope - and i am sure the commissioner is listening - that we can ensure that when this system is fully in place, it is used in a positive, humane and very compassionate way to help the most vulnerable members of our society.
- madam president, before we go to the vote on the schwaiger report, may i ask for a clarification? we have asked for a division vote on recital c, but when i look at the texts for the vote i realise that an inappropriate word has slipped in. the words in the english text on which we wish to vote by division are 'socially balanced': they are separate words. some suggest that we should also vote on the word 'fair', but that should be in the main text. i hope this is clear.
- mr president, may i say that the socialist group wants the words 'free, fair and socially balanced' to be included in the text? we shall now vote on amendment no 11, which does not include them. am i getting this right ? we shall therefore vote against this amendment and in favour of the original recital.
- madam president, we can only vote on the amendment before us and that amendment calls for the removal of four words. we shall vote against this amendment. there is no other amendment possible.
- i'll try to be as clear as possible. the original text says, and this is the original text as voted in committee: 'considering that free, fair and socially balanced world trade must be developed and consolidated' etc. the first part of amendment no 11 reads: 'whereas (words deleted) '. we are prepared to vote on this. i said i would vote against this amendment. there is then an additional amendment to amendment no 11, which has two parts. but i think we can vote on the whole of amendment no 11 immediately, which deletes the words 'free, fair and socially balanced'. no one has agreed to any oral amendment.
- madam president, my request was for clarification. if we vote on the original text of this paragraph, if we pass over the vote on the amendment, then i will propose a vote on the words 'and socially balanced' independently of the rest of the text. i am not proposing an oral amendment. we must first vote on the amendment. i propose that we vote separately on the original text, depending on the outcome of this vote. i therefore do not propose an oral amendment.
- madam president, there is a serious translation problem. the english text reads: 'believes that the eu should ensure that wto rules relating to the agricultural sector do not have an adverse effect on the economies of developing countries and that security of food supply should be considered as a multifunctional aspect of agriculture'. you'll find that the french version says the opposite! this may well happen more often than we think. fortunately, this time we noticed it. please vote on the basis of the original english version.
- madam president, since amendment no 70 by the europe of nations group was rejected by an overwhelming majority, could you, in order to save time, apply the provisions of rule 130 (7) of the rules of procedure which states that the president may decide, following the adoption or rejection of a particular amendment, that several other amendments of similar content or pursuing similar objectives will be put to the vote collectively. you can ask for parliament's consent beforehand. the amendments thus grouped together may relate to different parts of the original text. this possibility has been introduced in our rules of procedure precisely for cases of this kind. we should now be able to vote as a group on the rest of mr berthu's amendments.
- madam president, this is the fourth time that the epp group has voted against an amendment by the epp group. i would ask this group to verify in future the number of members who are entitled to table amendments before wasting our time in the house. fifteen meps from the epp have tabled amendments to this report, allegedly on behalf of their group. (various movements)
- madam president, before we move on to amendment no 5, i would like to point out that we have not completed the vote on paragraph 17. our group has asked for a split vote on the last group of words. i recognize that this group of words has now been changed by one of the amendments we accepted, but we would nevertheless like to have a separate vote on the last group of words in this paragraph.
in writing. - in the weeks leading up to the agreement on this resolution, many members tried to ensure that europe's position really makes this a 'development cycle' within the wto and that developing countries can be real partners in the negotiation process; it was also necessary to emphasise that the profits of trade should be directed towards the fight against the growing poverty in the world. the european commission and the council should take account of our clear intentions in this regard. on the extension of the wto to investment, i am pleased that the european parliament has emphasized strongly that the mistakes of the ami should not be repeated and that the investor's responsibilities under the ilo and oecd guidelines should be treated in parallel with the investor's rights. i am also pleased that it has decided by a large majority to establish a european code of conduct for multinationals (amendment no 15). i condemn the attitude of the conservative group in this house which has tried to remove development considerations from the proposals of the permanent forum with the ilo and to remove - incredibly - free trade from our list of objectives, but also 'fair and socially balanced trade'. i found that hard to believe, and i'm glad he didn't. the fact that they were prepared to vote for the protection of the 'strict legal requirements' to which european farmers are subject but against the destructive dumping of european agricultural products on small farmers in developing countries is scandalous in itself. i ask the european negotiators to respect our resolution in favour of the principle of security and against any adverse effects on developing countries in the agricultural negotiations. the protectionism of the european union towards developing countries is morally unacceptable and does not reflect economic vision. he's done his time.
- the agenda calls for the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
- b5-0268/1999 by mrs plooij-van gorsel, on behalf of the eldr group, on the computer problem linked to the year 2000 and its possible consequences in europe; - b5-0268/1999 by mrs theorin, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the computer problem linked to the year 2000 and the lifting of the state of alert of all nuclear forces (b5-0276/1999); - b5-0268/1999 by mrs hautala, mr lucas and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the computer problem linked to the year 2000 and its possible consequences for europe (b5-0292/1999); - b5-303/1999 by mr chichester, mr morillon and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the computer bug of the year 2000 and its possible consequences.
- i would like to say first of all how much i welcome the resolution of this parliament. it will be a clear sign to the world of the seriousness with which we are dealing with the question of the year 2000 and will, we hope, be an example for others to follow. but time is clearly running out. this means that despite all the good intentions at present, the risks of failure are inevitable. the high level of interconnections between countries, particularly in the western world, makes it impossible to predict exactly where and when such outages will occur. the level of unpredictability is higher the higher the level of integration. the situation in eastern europe is also far from reassuring. the lack of information from this region was still a concern to the commission last june, and the situation is becoming more worrying as we move eastwards. the safest approach is to shut down all these plants for the millennium, but how could lithuania deprive itself of 75% of its ignalina production capacity? by leaving people in the dark and without water? the west must offer its help, and i therefore welcome this resolution which calls on the oecd countries to provide the necessary resources to do so. i will end very quickly with an anecdote that would be amusing if the situation were not so serious. the americans and the russians have recently put up red telephones so that they can communicate in case of problems related to the year 2000 bug and, in all but one case, they have discovered problems related to the year 2000 bug on these lines! nothing will be guaranteed in the weeks to come; we must act now to reduce risks around the world and i welcome the contribution to this process that our resolution makes.
commission. - mr president, i shall answer your questions and your comments on matters which are within the commission's competence. the way we see the situation in the member states, in the nuclear candidate countries and in the newly independent states is as follows. let me first point out that in fact, few nuclear power stations, even in the most developed countries, use computer software as a vital part of their safety system. our member states with nuclear power stations have been working on this issue for at least two years, and the information we have indicates that the remedial measures are now practically complete, as is all the work on emergency planning. the commission has encouraged the exchange of knowledge and good practice in this case, but we have not seen the need to intervene more in our activities with the member states. the same is not true of some countries in central and eastern europe and some newly independent states, whose response to the problem has been slower. some people only started to pay attention to this issue at the end of 1998. these countries were supported in their work by the international atomic energy agency, which revised their analyses of the scale of the problem for a significant number of plants; mrs plooij-van gorsel referred to the work done so far and here is my answer, madam president: the work of the agency and the countries operating these plants has not revealed any bug problem on the systems essential for safety. the commission has provided additional aid to certain nuclear power plant operators. we have financed missions of eu experts to three plants in russia and to three plants in ukraine. in addition, we have offered our support to nuclear regulators since the beginning of this year, and we are now supporting such projects in bulgaria, slovakia and russia. while no safety critical system elements are affected, a number of other systems, including those informing the operator, could be affected and their failure could indirectly threaten nuclear safety by overloading operators, as has been indicated. on the basis of the information available to us, we believe that the countries of central and eastern europe have generally made good progress in correcting these systems. comparatively, the newly independent states of the former soviet union are undoubtedly moving more slowly in their healing efforts, but all of them say that the work will be completed by the end of this year. we support these clean-up efforts by contributing to the activities of two international scientific and technical centres, the one in moscow and the one in kiev, and if necessary we are prepared to provide additional support for these programmes, given that, as you said in the debate, we are now very close to the year 2000 and the main thing was to start dealing with this in good time. here is both my answer and our contribution to the solution of this important problem.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
- the agenda calls for joint debate on five motions for resolutions on east timor. - b5-0271/1999 by mr maaten, on behalf of the eldr group, on the situation in east timor; - b5-280/1999 by mr seguro, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in east timor; - b5-289/1999 by mr queiró, on behalf of the uen group, on the situation in east timor; - b5-299/1999 by mrs hautala, mckenna and others, on behalf of the green group, on the situation in east timor.
commission. - the rehabilitation of east timor, in its scope and political specificity, is an important task for us, as it is for the entire international community. in the framework of the united nations, we must all contribute to finding a comprehensive solution to this problem, including with regard to human rights and the establishment of a new state. in this context, i welcome the arrival last tuesday in east timor of mr sergio vieira de mello, the new united nations administrator. i think we can only wish him, on behalf of the commission as far as i am concerned, and on behalf of parliament and the union, success in this difficult task. you know that the commission is fully committed to taking its responsibilities in terms of humanitarian and rehabilitation operations. in response to ms maij-weggen on humanitarian aid, echo has so far committed €5 million and a new decision for €10 million is, as they say, 'in the pipeline' to improve the work we are doing on the ground. we have responded to international calls and are currently committing the equivalent of around €8.5 million in food aid. this is not a small thing and we try to balance this aid according to local absorption capacities. the priority we give to aid to east timor will be clearly expressed, and i believe that this is in response to your suggestion, mrs maij-weggen, by the visit my colleague mr nielson will make to east and west timor at the end of the month. we shall be there at the end of the month, in the person of the commissioner responsible. we have received information that the united nations is effectively conducting large-scale operations in east timor. the repatriation of displaced persons is under way: as of yesterday, about 65 000 of all displaced persons had returned, and the indonesian government gave us assurances that within 100 days the voluntary repatriation process would be completed. as far as the future is concerned, it will of course be of the utmost importance that the east timorese themselves participate in all aspects of the rehabilitation and development process. as you have pointed out, alongside the establishment of the economic foundations, the emergence of a political power up to the task and the development of the necessary institutions will be essential elements. after independence, it will be for the government to determine its foreign policy stance, including accession, if any, to the lomé convention. here's the information i wanted to give you in answer to your questions.
- mrs maij-weggen, you have been a member of this house for a long time. you know the rules. we have very strict time limits for emergencies. this is not a time for questions, this is a debate. the commissioner may choose to answer only when he wishes. i'm sure he'd be happy to answer your question in private.
- the agenda calls for joint debate on 18 motions for resolutions on human rights. moratorium on the death penalty - (b5-0272/1999) by mr malmström, on behalf of the eldr group, on the introduction of a universal moratorium on the death penalty; (b5-0274/1999) by mr wurtz, mrs gonzález álvarez and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the death penalty in the manner and case of mumia abu jamal; (b5-0282/1999) by mrs karamanou, on behalf of the pes group, on the abolition of the death penalty and the cancellation of the execution of mr mumia abu jamal and mr larry robinson; (b5-0283/1999) by mr schori, mrs díez gonzález and others, on behalf of the pes group, on the introduction of a universal moratorium on the death penalty; - (b5-0284/1999) by mrs díez gonzález and mr barón crespo, on behalf of the pse group, on the death sentence in the usa against joaquín josé martínez; - (b5-0287/1999) by mr galeote quecedo, mr salafranca sánchez neyra and others, on behalf of the ppe/de group, on the death sentence against joaquín josé martínez; - (b5-0297/1999) by mr wuori, mr knörr borràs and others, on behalf of the green group, on a moratorium on capital punishment; - (b5-0306/1999) by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, mr mccartin and others, on behalf of the ppe/de group, on the creation of a universal moratorium on capital punishment. respect for serb and other minorities in kosovo - (b5-0270/1999) by mr haarder and mrs malmström, on behalf of the eldr group, on respect for the rights of serbs and other minorities in kosovo - (b5-0275/1999) by mr korakas, mr alavanos and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the situation of serb and roma minorities in kosovo; - (b5-0281/1999) by mr schori, mr sakellariou and others, on behalf of the pse group, on the situation in kosovo; - (b5-0298/1999) by mr cohn-bendit, mr gahrton and others, on behalf of the green group, on the situation of the serb minority in kosovo; - (b5-0304/1999) by mr queiró, on behalf of the uen group, on the protection of serbs and other ethnic minorities in kosovo; - (b5-0305/1999) by mr morillon, mr oostlander and others, on behalf of the epp/ed group, on the situation of serbs and other national minorities in kosovo. b5-0290/1999 by mr vinci and mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the case of mr nikitin; - b5-0291/1999 by mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, on the forthcoming trial of alexander nikitin; - b5-0295/1999 by mr schroedter, mr wuori and others, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the forthcoming trial of alexander nikitin; - b5-0302/99 by mr oostlander, mr posselt, mr cushnahan, mr grossetête and mr lechner, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the forthcoming trial of mr alexander nikitin. moratorium on the death penalty
- mr president, i speak on behalf of my group but also on behalf of my colleague lord bethell, who has a particular interest in this matter. the fate of alexander nikitin fits perfectly into the debate on urgent and current problems. he's due in court in russia next tuesday. i think this is the sixth time he's been in court. he's being charged with high treason, an extremely serious charge, and why? for having addressed a subject of public interest, of environmental interest to the whole of europe. if found guilty, he faces the death penalty. such a sanction is excessive and our assembly and the european institutions should send a very strong message to russia asking it to reconsider this case, to drop the charges and to respect our demand for immediate release. in the context of the debate we have just had on the abolition of the death penalty, it is entirely appropriate for us to ask the russian authorities to respect our opinion, the opinion of europe, as regards possible charges and sanctions. i therefore strongly support the calls for mr nikitin's immediate release and acquittal.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i know rwanda and have worked there since 1984. i was born in tanzania, where i lived for many years; i speak the major african languages of the great lakes region; so i speak with knowledge. genocide is a scourge that must be condemned unreservedly, wherever it occurs. anyone responsible for genocide must be brought to justice; justice must be done. no one should be able to escape prosecution in this matter. the international criminal court in arusha must work efficiently, and we hope that those responsible for this work will take the necessary steps to conclude this process in a fair and timely manner. only four trials were completed in five years, and this delay allowed some of the perpetrators of the genocide to be released thanks to technical details. this is unacceptable. we need to assess the work of the court in order to identify weaknesses and be able to provide the appropriate assistance to ensure quality justice without wasting time or resources. innocent victims of genocide or conflict cannot wait indefinitely to rebuild their lives and to return to a peaceful existence in their own village and in their own home. this resolution, which has been approved by all the political groups in this parliament, clearly expresses our concerns, our hopes and our expectations. the governments of rwanda and neighbouring countries must now take serious steps to restore real peace to the region. they must cooperate fully with the eu special envoy, the eu, the un, the oau and all humanitarian organisations to do what is necessary to support peace and stability in rwanda and the great lakes region in general.
- this resolution expresses the concern which must be shared by the entire international community at the deterioration of stability in pakistan and the neighbouring territories. we are certainly right to regret the military takeover, but it would be wise to recognize that the new military regime is infinitely more popular in pakistan. it is clear that the pakistanis expect general musharraf to succeed in preventing a whole series of corrupt and intolerant factions from continuing their activities. the sharif and bhutto regimes mismanaged their country for many years. the military is undeniably taking a hard line on large-scale financial fraud. this resolution wrongly evokes the need for a return to or restoration of democracy. it should call for a gradual move towards democracy and propose a practical programme for the european union to facilitate this move. the fight against corruption is a first essential step. i am sure that the portuguese presidency, whose talent and experience are beyond reproach, will change the european union's perception of the problems facing pakistan and i would be delighted to hear mr lamy's views on the current status of the cooperation agreement.
- like many colleagues, i have been interested in the reaction to this coup by many people of pakistani origin, people who are themselves involved in democratic politics and concerned about good democratic practices. no one was shocked. this reaction reinforces our awareness of all the things that were wrong under the previous regime, such as the lack of protection of the rights of religious minorities and the increasingly frequent abuse of the blasphemy law introduced after the military coup of 1958. we also witnessed under the previous regime, increasing human rights violations against people such as the sindhi. the fate of political prisoners under the new regime will provide a clear indication of the regime's intentions. i am also concerned to learn that the military was motivated by the fact that they felt the sharif government was not doing enough to protect and preserve the federation of pakistan. this seems to me particularly worrying in view of its growing nuclear power. we believe that the way the former prime minister's trial is conducted will also make it clear whether the military intends to restore, or rather, not restore, but establish a viable and democratic government in pakistan.
- we now move to the vote on topical and urgent subjects of major importance. the result of the vote: see minutes.
in writing. - the convention on the rights of the child is the most productive of the international conventions: all countries in the world, except somalia and the usa, have signed it. the objectives of the convention reflect an unprecedented international response: measures to be implemented in international law to protect the rights of the world's most innocent and vulnerable citizens. the draft resolution we voted on today aims to ensure that the elements protected by this convention are protected in other legal bases and frameworks. we seek to echo the expectations of citizens who cannot speak out, and to protect those who cannot protect themselves. children should be protected by those who have their best interests at heart. we must therefore emphasize the role of the family, and especially of the parents, in protecting children. in its efforts to create a legal basis for the protection and treatment of children, the state must bow to the primacy of the right of parents to protect and their children. we must ensure that the family has, and i quote from the convention on the rights of the child, "the protection and assurance it needs to be able to play its full role in the community".
- voting is closed.
the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0063/1999) by mrs giannakou-koutsikou, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and human rights, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on a european union action plan to combat drugs (2000-2004) (com (1999) 239).
- few subjects are more striking in their cultural approach to the eu than the one in the netherlands. i think this report reflects a good consensus and i congratulate mrs giannakou-koutsikou on her work in drawing up this report. i am one of a growing minority in the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party and also in this house who believe that a radical change in our approach is necessary. why would you do that ? aside from the ethical weakness of the prohibitionist argument (the state has no right to prevent a responsible adult from using drugs), the fact is that prohibition does not work. our approach, based on controlling the supply of drugs, requires enormous resources. according to the police in bristol, my constituency, 85% of crime is drug-related. it is destroying our urban centres, which are a huge market for drug traffickers, who sometimes even become role models for disillusioned young people. it fills our prisons with people who need care more than imprisonment and it creates disproportionate discrimination against ethnic minorities, some of whom have a culture that is less critical of drug use than others. more importantly, it helps to finance other forms of criminal activity and to strengthen international organized crime. we must at least consider redirecting resources from the fight against drug supply to the fight against demand. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i congratulate my colleague on her report. in my region of europe, 3 million people use illegal drugs, 28% of whom are aged 16 to 29 and 14% are aged 14 to 15. there are 12,000 new cases of drug addiction every year, 70,000 drug-related crimes every year and 1,200 drug-related deaths every year. we may not be winning this battle, but we must not lose it. we need a multi-pronged policy, we need to act together to stop the producers, traffickers and dealers, but we also need education and health policies; finally, we must encourage research. if we just suppress supply, not demand, the street price of drugs will go up and people will commit more crime to pay for it. many of the amendments to this report are therefore relevant. we have to educate the young. we need role models from the world of music, fashion and film to get the message across to young people: not just by saying "no", it doesn't work, but by telling them the truth. the truth is that drugs can be pleasurable, but they can also be harmful to health. it can cause cancer, cardiovascular disease, memory and concentration problems, testicular problems, and more. this too young people must understand. using drugs is wrong, but we must help those who are willing to accept our help. i will never forget, when i was minister for the fight against drugs, my meeting with a young man who had lost his health, his friends, his relations, his family, his job, his future and his self-respect. we were helping him out of the black hole of addiction. i stupidly asked him, "do you feel like you've won the battle?" he said, "i have a lifetime of struggle ahead of me, and if i ever think i've won, i'm lost". he deserves our support. he needs research so that we can provide him with effective treatment and we need to give him that support and that trust. but it would be so much better if we could destroy this scourge by persuading the young people of future generations that drugs are simply not for them, that they are not worth the risk.
the rapporteur. - (en) this report calls for no dispute or controversy except on one point which concerns all those who are listening to me. the proposal aims to develop a computerised image archiving system to help detect forged travel documents. i guess we all agree it's worth it. what, then, is the only point of contention? the question is whether this decision will be taken behind closed doors in brussels by officials and ministers or whether parliament will have a right of access. the 15 national parliaments cannot have it because it is a european proposal and that task will therefore fall to us or to no one. the background to this proposal is that in january this year the commission put forward the same proposal, stating that its objective was to detect the documents used by illegal immigrants. the proposal was abandoned when the treaty of amsterdam came into force in may. it has now been reintroduced by the german government, as a national government is entitled to do under the treaty of amsterdam. the problem, however, is that the german government declares that its objective is to combat, i quote, 'crime', without mentioning the word immigration. why would you do that ? because in the amsterdam treaty, immigration issues are transferred from the third pillar to the first pillar and become for the first time the responsibility of parliament. however, criminal matters remain within the third pillar, in which we have no right of review and no responsibility whatsoever. i therefore conclude that the german government is trying to avoid parliament's right of scrutiny in its proposal. the committee didn't like it. the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has invited the finnish presidency and the german government to come and answer our questions on this proposal. the finnish presidency replied by letter to the committee that it would not be coming to answer our questions, but that we could still put questions in plenary. well, this is a plenary session. where is the council of ministers? everyone can see that the chairs are empty except for a lovely lady in grey who is a civil servant and is not allowed to speak. i hope, however, that she will convey this message. i regret to say that the fact that the german government has sought to evade parliament's right of scrutiny by keeping this under the third pillar and that the finnish presidency has not even appeared to answer our questions, either in committee or in plenary, seriously tarnishes the reputation of the finns, who have hitherto enjoyed a superb reputation for openness and democracy. i also regret that they are not here to answer my accusations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i ask everyone here to vote tomorrow to support the committee in establishing parliamentary scrutiny of this new policy element which is part of our powers under the amsterdam treaty. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i would also like to support the main points of the german council initiative to improve the exchange of information on forged travel documents and to strengthen border security in the european union both for member states such as my own, the united kingdom, which are not part of schengen, and for those on the perimeter of the union. my country, the united kingdom, has recently seen a huge increase in the number of people entering its territory, and in my previous job, as a doctor at london's central hospital, i witnessed a significant degree of illegal immigration and fraudulent abuse of our generous asylum system. the uk receives about 7,000 new asylum applications a month, of which 80% are found to be fictitious after investigation. that is about 100,000 people a year, including their families coming into my country. i have personally seen a nigerian asylum seeker granted asylum on the basis of a false liberian passport, an albanian family posing as kosovars, another nigerian who had lent his british passport to his cousin who was able to enter the uk posing as him and then commit a crime, and an algerian who was living under the identity of a french citizen and had bought his identity card on the paris black market. these are just a few examples of the many abuses i have witnessed firsthand, and we know that the immigration authorities are faced with these abuses every day. how can we hope that our own immigration authorities and our own police forces will be able to crack down on the systematic abuse of the system? it is our duty to remember that this constant influx of illegal immigrants is weighing particularly heavily on our urban centres, our national health service, our social services and our social security system while putting our limited housing resources under enormous pressure. unfortunately, it seems that many of these asylum seekers were led through continental europe into the belief that they were heading for one of our channel ports knowing that we had a permissive asylum policy that instantly granted the right to housing and social security. the british conservative party is in principle formally opposed to the transfer to the first pillar, under article 63 of the amsterdam treaty, of visa, immigration and asylum policies, and i must therefore express my disagreement with the rapporteur on this point. we are nevertheless in favour of intergovernmental cooperation under the third pillar through joint action by the council for the exchange of such information, including that relating to falsified travel documents, in order to combat crime and in particular international crime which does not respect national borders. organized crime seems to have found an easy and lucrative business in the illegal trafficking of people, often willing to sacrifice their life savings to enter wealthy western countries in the hope of starting a new life. so i think this initiative is a step in the right direction because it uses modern computer technology to digitize images to help law enforcement and interior ministries to cooperate across the union. i think this is a good example of the kind of project that my party in the united kingdom can support as long as it is carried out on a flexible intergovernmental basis.
- mr president, mrs rühle has written an excellent report on this subject. i have just been appointed rapporteur for the eib, the european central bank and the european bank for reconstruction and development. i support the amendments proposed by mrs rühle because they clearly express real concerns about the eib's transparency, efficiency, accountability and compliance with community objectives and policies. i shall briefly address each of these concerns. first, there is a great deal of concern about the transparency of the eib. my predecessor in the socialist group, mr freddy blak, mrs rühle, the author of the report, many members and the court of auditors have all expressed their views on the lack of transparency in the operations of the eib. even the world bank and the eastern european ngo bankwatch have publicly expressed this opinion. secondly, let me address the question of efficiency. mrs rühle points to the need to assess the efficiency of eib operations. as the bank's new rapporteur, i asked sir brian unwin, president of the eib, for an initial meeting to establish a framework for assessing the bank's effectiveness. i regret to inform the house that sir brian did not even bother to call me or make an appointment with me, despite numerous reminders by telephone. such disdain for the new european parliament will further erode respect and trust in the european union. thirdly, what about public accountability? in may 1999, my predecessor mr blak, cocobu's vice-president, asked 26 specific questions concerning allegations of fraud, mismanagement, corruption and attempted business-killing (i said business-killing attempts) in the bank's activities, including its treasury operations, during the period 1993-1998. the questions are specific, detailed and relevant. they require a written reply from the bank. i asked sir brian for these answers but, once again, he chose to ignore my request. mr martí, one of its vice-presidents, told me that the eib belongs to the member states and that, as such and under the treaty, it is not a european institution responsible to the european parliament, the court of auditors or olaf. only matters concerning loans to non-eu countries for which the community provided loan guarantees could be discussed with meps. i ask this house: what are the member states ? are they not the governments of the people who live, work and pay taxes in the countries we call member states? as the only elected representatives of the peoples of these member states, are we not supposed to safeguard the interests of the inhabitants of these same member states? does the treaty specifically prohibit the european parliament from having access to information? i certainly don't. if the eib thinks it is working well and has nothing to hide, why is its president, sir brian, refusing this access to parliament, the court of auditors and olaf? the treaty clearly needs to be amended to emphasize such access. i suggest that those concerned by the igc take note of this. ecofin clearly supports this, since at its meeting in tampere on 8 october it reinforced its previous criticisms of the eib's performance and management by asking it to open its doors to olaf and the court of auditors. i have seen the decision taken by the eib on this directive and, under paragraphs 5 and 6 of the bank's decision, it will not open its doors to olaf. it is high time that our assembly asked the bank to open its doors to olaf and the court of auditors.
- mr president, this is a point of order, or rather a minor concern. several members on this side of the house are wondering whether you have lost your jacket; on this snowy day, we can lend you one of ours just in case you get cold.
- madam president, a lot has been said but i grew up in belfast and i was immersed for thirty of my thirty-nine years in the violent conflict that was affecting my homeland and i want to personally mark this historic event. this is a historic day. it is for this purpose that i am sitting in john hume's chair today. i think it is important that we honour him today as the nobel peace prize winner from this parliament who has devoted his entire life to securing the peace process, given that he is convalescing at home in northern ireland. (applause) today it is important to say that the will of the people of northern ireland has been respected. 71% of the citizens voted for peace and politicians of all stripes have shown enough courage to fulfill this desire for future generations. i have to say, in my case, it may have been too late. i left northern ireland because there was no future, no job, no opportunities for young people to seize. however, i am delighted that from today future generations will be able to seize these opportunities and europe has played a key role in this process.
- madam president, i would like to say that i am delighted to accept the brilliant tribute paid to my colleagues for the success achieved this weekend. i would like to stress that the courage and moral strength of my party leader, david trimble, should be commended. it 's rare to see a politician risk his future . i hope he succeeds. there is still a long way to go. we'll keep our enthusiasm to a minimum, but i'm sure he'll be delighted. i will convey to him the best wishes of parliament for the future. a delegation from the european people's party was able to attend the historic events in belfast on monday. david trimble hopes to return to europe in mid-january and i am delighted about this event as you, madam president, are, i am sure. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, i would like to speak on a point of order under rule 179 on relations with the ombudsman. on 29 july this year, the ombudsman sent a letter to the european parliament concerning an inquiry he had conducted on his own initiative, requesting the adoption of a code of good administrative behaviour and a reply by 30 november. he hadn't received a reply yesterday. i understand that you have replied to the ombudsman today but i would like to know when members of this parliament will have the opportunity to respond to the ombudsman's request for comments in connection with this inquiry.
- mr president, the president-in-office of the council says that she always enjoys her visits to the european parliament. it is therefore extraordinary that she did not respond to parliament's proposals for the igc in her speech. this tends to confirm the worrying press releases that the european council has chosen a narrow agenda for the igc and a charter that is purely voluntary. if so, it says a lot about how the european union is meeting the challenge of enlargement. if the igc fails to change the way the treaties can be revised in the future and in the policy area to make them more flexible, it would threaten to paralyse the union's efforts to modernise following the accession of new member states. if the igc fails to give citizens better access to the european court of justice, it would mean that the charter would be more of a public relations operation than an effective redefinition of european citizenship. and if the european union fears that it will strengthen its liberal and parliamentary character, it will no longer be attractive to the member states joining the union and will no longer be a trusted player on the world stage. it is not geography but clearly defined and brilliantly illustrated liberal values and democratic practices that should define the borders of europe so that the candidate countries know where the european ship will take them.
- mr president, my remarks will relate to the security issues raised in today's debate. members of this house may not be aware of a misguided intervention by the nato secretary-general today in matters of national policy. lord robertson recently described the scottish national party's policy on nato membership as isolationist. i should say that this policy is in fact the same as that of austria, finland and sweden, and ireland, although lord robertson spoke on the occasion of ireland's accession to the partnership for peace programme. i hope that the president-in-office of the council will deplore, as i do, the intervention of the nato secretary-general, which is partisan politics and by which he is attacking the defence policies of finland and other member states. i would like to make it clear that the snp, in common with all our colleagues in the greens/efa group, is in favour of common security in europe and we welcome the developments which the council will make to that end. however, we are strongly opposed to the maintenance of nuclear weapons in scottish waters, in europe or on the european continent. for us this is a determining factor in defence policy and i do not imagine for one moment that ireland is developing a policy which is aimed at hosting nuclear weapons in its territorial waters. mr collins assured me that this had nothing to do with nato membership. i hope that as we develop our crisis management policy we will give serious thought to whether nuclear weapons should be included in it. i think they have absolutely no place in it.
- mr president, i have the privilege of speaking again in a debate in which mrs halonen is taking part. in fact, my very first speech in this house was in july when i welcomed the priority given by the finnish presidency to the information society and its work programme. i would like to congratulate the finnish presidency on its work this evening as we approach the end of the presidency, but i would also like to say that i am disappointed that it has not made more of the opportunities that have arisen. mrs halonen mentioned the information society - i think that was just the last sentence of her speech - and yet, according to a document which was sent to me by the commission last week, an e-europe initiative is to be presented in helsinki, namely a document entitled 'information society for all'. so far, no record of that document. the 'for all' clause still clearly does not include members of the european parliament, so few people know that it exists. you have hardly mentioned it in your speech, but i hope the council will devote some time to this vital subject. as regards the completion of the internal market more generally, let me say that during the finnish presidency some very important policy papers have been drawn up and they require a much higher priority than the one currently accorded to them by the community. the motion for a resolution i saw this morning did not mention any initiatives concerning the internal market or the information society, despite the work done under your presidency. this morning i tabled an addendum on behalf of my group to include these subjects and i sincerely hope that the house will support it. in conclusion, i also hope that the finnish presidency will remind the governments of the member states at the helsinki council that the creation of a single market requires that the governments of the member states do not interfere in crossborder takeovers or in the restructuring of key companies. i am sure that members of this house are aware that a crucial takeover bid is now under way in the telecommunications sector. i must say that i am very disappointed to hear that some leading politicians and even members of the commission are suggesting that the philosophy of an internal market must still be fully understood.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard some pessimistic notes in this house about the forthcoming summit. i do not agree with that at all: this summit is of enormous importance. we have prepared it - parliament, the commission and the council presidency - with extreme care, with determination, and the challenge of enlargement is a historic challenge of decisive importance. enlargement will take hold in helsinki, it will be launched there and it will completely change the face of europe. i agree with what many of you have said: we must be strong and energetic in implementing enlargement, an enlargement for which all countries must be analysed but ensuring that they do not lose their confidence in the union. our approach to enlargement is therefore by no means minimalist. the theory of the online departure, the image of each country moving forward and making progress along the way, is the thesis we have followed. at the same time, we want a strong igc. we therefore think that we should start as soon as possible - as mr seguro said a moment ago. in my view, we can and must start in january, because we have many issues to deal with: amsterdam, secondary law, cohesion, codecision, the security and defence issue, the charter of fundamental rights and even the restructuring of the treaty. this agenda is not minimalist. mr napolitano, i would also like to reassure you on another point, namely the proposal to organise preparatory work on support, and i emphasize the word 'support'. the problem of revising the treaties involves highly detailed and specific technical aspects: we cannot therefore be accused of lacking depth in our approach, of not having analysed all these aspects thoroughly. this is not a transfer: accompaniment means that we start working on our own account, accompanied by technical work, which is essential to avoid delays that weaken the effectiveness of our action. we are embarking on this project in close accordance with the document presented earlier and by making strong proposals. we feel that after enlargement we will really have to face another problem: we will have to define carefully and carefully, through a very broad debate, what the borders and the nature of europe are. many of you have already said this, i have asked this several times in parliament and i repeat it today: in parallel with the implementation of enlargement - an undeniable reality since the enlargement we will decide on, i hope, in helsinki, raises no doubts, no problems, no hesitations - we will have to open a debate on the nature and the shape of europe. it is our task to define these frontiers and to decide on the nature of europe. we cannot simply respond to the legitimate demands of countries wishing to join the union. where does this demand end? why was it not of interest to some countries in asia, for example? it's up to us to decide. i could give you a whole list of countries which would be interested in joining this europe and would have the desire to do so, giving it a different character from its true nature: europe is not a customs treaty, it is not a free trade area. europe is a union of countries, and we have called it the european union. there is no doubt that we must then, together, implement a major institutional reform so that we can take positive decisions, and we must advance this debate on the frontiers and the nature of europe. in conclusion, i would just like to add this: we have really studied the problem of nuclear power stations and the effort in the balkans, the social and cultural issues that have been raised here. there are agreements which can lead to a strategy of closing down these plants, a strategy which allows a certain level of safety to be achieved and at the same time leaves these countries the possibility of solving their problems in a realistic and shared way. this is what we're doing. so this summit presents us with a huge challenge and a rather complex agenda. i thank parliament. in the last few months the commission and parliament have acted in the same way on these questions, they have acted in unison. what i said at our first meeting is still valid: this challenge is not without interest for us, but, thanks to our cooperation, both parliament and the commission will gain from it. it is our responsibility, in my view, to ensure that europe continues to develop, develop in the long term and not just in the short term. that is why i think that, beyond these questions, we must engage in the debate on the europe of tomorrow, on its borders, on its nature, themes which i have already mentioned many times because i think this is a task which we must carry out together.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i repeat that the presidency's view is that our experience of the previous intergovernmental conference was positive as regards the participation of the european parliament. the prime minister of the presidency then went on a tour of the member states before the helsinki summit to ask what people thought of the issue. for the moment, it seems that there are two sides to the story. some believe that this process should be carried out further, and some believe that the status quo should be maintained. but i think that the european parliament's rights will be at least the same as those of the previous igc.
- the debate is closed. motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure: see minutes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- mr karlsson, president of the court of auditors, who was to present the court of auditors' annual report, is due to leave brussels at 7 p.m. given the way our agenda is moving, it will not be possible to deal with this earlier. it will therefore have to be postponed to another part-session. the matter will be discussed later by the conference of presidents when it draws up the final draft agenda for the december part-session.
- the agenda calls for the council statement on the annual report on human rights, followed by a debate.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for this opportunity to present the first annual report of the european union on human rights. my aim is not to repeat what is written in the report, but to look also to the future. the establishment of a community human rights policy is a far-reaching project, and its implementation requires courage and patience. to be effective, the european union must be able to cooperate at many levels. first, cooperation between the institutions of the european union must be strengthened. the european union must also be prepared to cooperate more extensively with civil society and non-governmental organisations. the european union supports the work of human rights defenders everywhere. this task requires the contribution of ngos. the european union must also act in cooperation with other international organisations, such as the council of europe, the osce and the un. this objective also implies a willingness to open up. however, the european union's efforts to increase its visibility must not lead to redundant actions or make cooperation with other organisations more difficult. on the basis of what i have just said, the annual report on human rights must be seen as part of the process of strengthening the status of human rights in the european union. i am convinced that we all want to develop the european union so that it can work more effectively than in the past for human rights everywhere in the world. it is not necessary to explain to the european parliament why this action is necessary. you know the question. reports of human rights violations are common among the news you receive. i am convinced that action to promote human rights values also has the unwavering support of european citizens. the annual report on human rights replaces the annual memorandum on human rights which the council used to send to the european parliament. this change is aimed at increasing and diversifying information on the council's action and priorities. the aim is to lay the foundations for a more in-depth and analytical debate on the european union's action in favour of human rights. i would also like to take this opportunity to mention the first european union forum on human rights, which ended today before this session, and in which many of us also participated. the forum was the venue for an active and forward-looking debate on many of the themes covered in the annual report. this forum was intended to be the commitment to a more sustained and wider dialogue on the priorities and challenges of the european union's human rights policy. this approach was also supported by the participants. i myself am convinced that the forum will not be left without a follow-up. all comments on how to develop and make this forum more effective are naturally welcome. but why is it in the european union's interest to publish a human rights report every year? firstly, the council considers that this can enhance the transparency of the european union's human rights policy. as you know, promoting transparency is one of the priority areas of the finnish presidency. transparency is of particular importance in the area of human rights. it is essential to strengthen dialogue and cooperation, because we all have our own role to play in this regard. the annual report covers the period from the beginning of june 1998 to the end of june 1999. this period has been chosen so that the results of the june european summits can be included in the report. it is planned to adopt the same division in future reports. secondly, this report aims to increase the coherence of the european union's human rights policy. i personally believe that the key challenge for the european union's human rights policy is precisely coherent and credible action in the various fora. the annual report provides for the first time a synthesis of the european union's overall action in the various international organisations and our relations with third countries. the annual report examines action in the field of the first and second pillars. in compiling the report, we noticed that nowhere else had this information been collected before. we also learned that there was real scope for strengthening the coherence of the european union's action beyond the limits of the pillars. the annual report focuses this time on the european union's external relations. this first annual report nevertheless includes a section on the european union's action to prevent racism on its own territory. the credibility of the european union's action implies that we ourselves observe the same human rights principles as those we demand of others. in the future, the internal situation of the european union will have to be considered more broadly, as was noted during the preparation of the annual report. the necessary capacities will have to be developed. for example, asylum and refugee issues could be given more consideration in the future, as they do have a crucial 'human rights' dimension. the purpose of the annual report is to present the european union's activity and the thematic aspects for the period chosen. it is therefore not intended to be an exhaustive description of the human rights situation in the various countries. it is not impossible that the need may arise in the future. it may be necessary to examine the situation in the individual countries more closely. however, this would require more developed monitoring and analysis mechanisms and capabilities than at present. the first chapters of the annual report set out the principles of the european union's human rights policy. these principles include universality and indivisibility. secondly, we have tried to present the main actors and systems in the field of community action and in international organisations. priorities and thematic human rights issues were also discussed, such as women's rights, children's rights and minority rights, as well as the fight against the death penalty and racism. the importance of economic, social and cultural rights is also rightly emphasised. i know very well that the content and form of the annual report are still subject to improvement. but we have tried to make it concise and easy to read. as soon as the report was adopted by the council, it was also made available on the internet. it will also be published in all the languages of the european union in the council's series of publications and will be widely disseminated. this is because we believe that an important part of human rights work is to make people aware of what human rights mean. the treaty of amsterdam and the human rights regulations which have just entered into force improve the possibilities for action by the european union in promoting human rights. these increased possibilities must now be given concrete and relevant content. in this respect, the european union's human rights policy is in a dynamic development phase. the reactions, including those of the european parliament, to this first annual report and the proposals it contains are very welcome. this would enable us to make progress in the next report on the common path we have chosen. there is one point i would like to mention separately. as i said at the beginning, deeper and more analytical cooperation with other european organizations, such as the council of europe and the osce, is needed. this is not just a polite wish, but an extremely important priority which the european union must take into account when considering its action in this area. redundant actions will have to be avoided. we are not in favour of creating double standards, which would cause problems not only for the applicant countries but also for ourselves. monitoring human rights means in practice monitoring the application of these standards. it is precisely the development of these standards that is the area in which the council of europe has the most experience. our union should therefore benefit from the experience of others. i believe that the group set up to draw up the charter of fundamental rights also plays a very important role. the composition of the group shall endeavour to take account of this different competence. i hope that we will receive good advice on how to improve the european union's action to promote human rights, so that we can really add value and not just rename problems by another name. my vision for the future is that human rights will play an increasingly important role in very different contexts. the active debate on human rights at the wto round of negotiations in seattle is a good example of this. the results of the tampere summit are also worth mentioning. in the future, the european union will have to take more clearly into account the effect of any action it takes on the realisation of human rights. the european parliament - you, ladies and gentlemen - has a very important role to play in this respect. i appreciate the fact that the european parliament closely follows human rights issues and comments, sometimes strongly or even sharply, on government actions. the european parliament thus significantly complements cooperation between governments. i hope that the first annual report on human rights will reinforce this development, which we can only welcome. i have deliberately cut my speech short a little because we are running a little behind schedule and unfortunately the airline i use has no intention of delaying its flight in case i am late. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission welcomes the publication of the first annual report on human rights. i believe that this publication will significantly increase the visibility of the european union in the field of human rights. the commission was actively involved in the preparation of this report and worked closely with the german and finnish presidencies of the council. in order to gain an overall view of the human rights situation at eu level, the commission believes that in future a greater balance between the three pillars of the european union should be sought. the report under consideration focuses largely on matters within the common foreign and security policy. to achieve a better balance in the future, a more thematic approach could be considered, focusing on, for example, groups requiring special protection, such as women and children, or on specific issues, such as election observation. the commission will of course continue to support the presidencies that will then be in office. in conclusion, i would like to point out that my colleague chris patten - who was unable to be here today, to his great regret, because of foreign policy obligations - and poul nielson are preparing a communication on the promotion of human rights and democratisation in our external relations. this communication, which is expected to be adopted by the commission in the first half of 2000, will complement the council's report on human rights, since it will focus on the concrete actions that the community can take to promote respect for human rights in third countries so that our declarations on this matter are backed up by serious and concrete initiatives and support.
- mr president, it is with great joy that we finally welcome a report from the council of ministers on human rights. i remember putting this request in december 1979 when russian troops were preparing to invade afghanistan. for the last 20 years, for one reason or another, the council of ministers or the ministers meeting in political cooperation have not been prepared to draw up a document. today we have at least one document, although i must admit that it is a meager snack. the delicate balance mentioned by the commissioner must be achieved very carefully but we need facts and details on how human rights are respected all over the world. i believe that this first document is just a step on the road to bringing us together and helping us to solve the problems of human rights. in the end, wars, murders, genocides, racism, xenophobia will have been on the menu in this terrible year. i wish that this document, which i must say was distributed very quickly, had been a little more powerful. i found it in my locker today to be debated during the human rights forum to which the president referred. we need to act quickly. this morning, during the human rights forum, i spoke with one of the finnish colleagues of the president-in-office from the finnish ministry of foreign affairs about a particular case recently raised by the european parliament, namely the case of alexander nikitin, a man who is on trial for high treason a few kilometres from helsinki. he faces the death penalty for exposing an ecological disaster caused by nuclear submarines in the murmansk region. i assume that the finnish government is interested in this matter. however, despite raising the issue with a member of the foreign ministry, we still have no information and alexander nikitin is on trial today and tomorrow. i assume that the people in the council of ministers are aware of this. i hope someone can give us some information on the subject. mr president, this parliament is the european parliament which takes human rights most seriously and we have important means at our disposal to deal with countries which violate human rights. i think we need to look at this matter more closely, in order to take action against those countries which are behaving in a scandalous way; the european parliament must lead by example and ensure that human rights are at the top of our agenda.
- mr president, i am pleased to welcome the two excellent reports presented by mr morillon. i would first like to turn to the report on the customs union and say how much we welcome it and we must remind turkey that it too must play its part. the european union has made considerable efforts over a number of years to ensure that this customs union is a success and turkey itself must ensure that it fulfils the role it is called upon to play. i also support the report which is perhaps the most controversial. this report on the social and economic development of turkey is welcome and was supported this week by the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy. in this respect, the common forum must be of major importance and, again, both sides must play their part. we are of course confident that we will fulfill ours. we believe that turkey will also fulfil its obligations. in this period leading up to the helsinki summit, it is crucial that we also look at the rule of law, human rights, respect for minorities, protection and recognition of their cultural identity and support for initiatives to abolish the death penalty which is one of the amendments to the morillon report which were tabled in our committee this week. of course, as we speak, a decision to impose the death penalty has been confirmed in turkey. however, i think we can focus on the good news, even in a tragic situation where a citizen is at risk of losing his life as a result of a state decision, a decision which has been upheld by the court of appeal. let me remind you that the death penalty has not been carried out in turkey since 1984. since then, an effective moratorium has been applied, with the result that 53 cases of people subjected to what we would call cruel and inhuman punishment have been set aside. the minister responsible for the european council and human rights is, as the milliyet daily reports, firmly opposed to the death penalty. some academics have introduced legislation, which will be proposed to the turkish parliament in the year 2000, in which for the first time the criminal law bill does not include the death penalty. i hope that in the year 2000, the commitment that turkey will make as it enters the new millennium will be, in general terms, to abolish the death penalty once and for all through a democratic parliamentary procedure.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate general morillon on his report and also welcome the important contribution made by his predecessor, mr edward mcmillan scott. let me take a slightly different view from that expressed by some of the previous speakers. i really think that at this time we should be addressing turkey in a more encouraging tone. many of us want to see relations between the european union and turkey improve and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the obstacles to the provision of eu financial assistance to turkey be removed as soon as possible. that's not all. in recognition of turkey's candidate status, which we hope will soon be approved and taken into consideration by the european council in helsinki, we should think of a more ambitious aid programme. in sum, the proposed measures are designed to enable turkey to make the necessary structural adjustments resulting from the customs union, which is currently operating entirely in favour of the european union. mr prodi, when he addressed this house on 13 october, suggested that an accession partnership, similar to the partnerships established with the official candidates, would also help turkey to gradually move towards the accession criteria. we know that accession negotiations cannot begin without the political criteria being met, but we must provide turkey with all the necessary assistance to get to that stage. in the parliament's resolution of 6 october we decided to work quickly on the technical and financial assistance needed to complete the customs union; we are also calling on the council to support the necessary measures in this regard. we have reached this stage and we are confident that the council as a whole will support our proposals. we should also be prepared to consider measures which will help turkey to come closer to our values and economic concepts.
- mr president, like many british members of parliament, i live in two worlds. the first is described in our national daily newspapers. some of them, at least, feed their readers with lies and half-truths in order to incite hatred against everything european. the other world is the one we are in now, the world that really exists, in which i work with my colleagues and others to make this continent a place where citizens feel better. the draft directive is second-rate. its aim is simply to reduce pollution and improve the quality of the air we breathe, which moves from one country to another without regard to national borders. who's not in favor of that? the information provided to the public, which is emphasized in the draft directive, is vital and provides an opportunity to support legal measures including the right of the public to name and blame governments that fail to take adequate steps to comply with the directive. and if we fail to meet the targets set for reducing benzene and carbon monoxide emissions, it will not be the industry's fault. it has done its share of the work through technological change. the culprits will be our governments for not having the political courage to reduce the use of cars in our cities. the liberal democrats welcome this measure. i expect that we will support all the amendments that have been tabled. we are pleased to send a strong and practical message to all eurosceptics, wherever they may be, that we are here to improve the lot of everyone in europe.
- mr president, reducing air pollution and in particular levels of benzene and carbon monoxide is a legitimate objective pursued by the european union. that is why this directive must be generally welcomed. air sampling must be organised to provide an annual assessment of personal exposure levels and i have some concern that some amendments calling for samples to be taken at the edge of the road give a distorted picture of reality. we are not continuously exposed to concentrations at the edge of the pavement, it is the line of the façades that is important and this can be more than five metres away from the edge of the pavement. the unconditional derogation for benzene levels established for socioeconomic reasons mentioned by mrs breyer seems at first sight curious. you would think that communities living in poor areas and suffering from the health problems associated with that would be the ones that would need cleaner air the most. however, if this regulation were to lead to the closure of major industries within these regions, the result would be counterproductive and would exacerbate economic and social problems. although petrol engines are the main source of benzene, coking plants also contribute. if the strictest aspects are applied, this steel industry could be forced to leave and probably move to eastern europe, which brings me to my last point. the commission proposal does not specifically take account of the problems of air pollution in the applicant countries; i think it is irresponsible, given the imminence of enlargement, that parliament has not received any information on pollution levels in countries such as poland or the czech republic, and the estimated costs and time needed to meet the new standards. i would suggest, mrs wallström, that in future, when environmental legislation such as this is being considered, the implications for the applicant countries should be taken into account as a whole and made public.
- mr president, i am a strong advocate of health and safety but i am also convinced that we are not going to change everything through legislation. if we could solve problems such as poverty, accidents, disease and death by legislation, we should have done so yesterday but that is not what we are going to focus on. however, some actions can be taken at european level. they include a change in the culture in which we work and live. mr pronk's report is very much in line with this approach. the report is to be commended for its excellent conclusions. it is a historic report, because it will be the first to be adopted under codecision and the first to deal with health and safety. it is a success for what we hope to achieve through this process, because parliament has behaved responsibly in its use of codecision. parliament has not always been called responsible and it has often been said that it was ill-informed, but in this particular area we are better informed and in some ways, i think, more responsible. parliament has made spectacular progress in the area of small and mediumsized enterprises, which is by far the most important sector we can hope to tackle. it is in this sector that the greatest number of accidents occur in the workplace and my colleagues and i do not hide our dismay that we pay little attention to this. the likelihood of being injured at work is 50% higher if you work in a small or medium-sized enterprise. the information which is available to smes - in the form of a vade-mecum contained in this report - and to which they are entitled will be an invaluable aid to a change of culture in the workplace. they should be used for other reports and in other areas and we should learn from them. i have also been involved in the conciliation process and i was delighted to see the council reacting in a very concrete way to parliament's amendments and i will bear this in mind in the future when we consider how we can get the various amendments and positions that we want to be adopted. of course, we have had successes in the previous cooperation procedure and the commission has contributed a great deal to this, and this timely relationship still exists. security is one of those areas where we can always find common ground to achieve what we really want. it is time for governments to pay constant attention to parliament's opinion and it is time for them to act. parliament is not opposed to the other institutions, it is a counterweight and a brake. unfortunately, it is precisely because the ministers were too close and too willing to have comfortable relations unchecked by europe that this process exists. it introduces transparency and clarity which is very beneficial for the confidence of the citizens of europe. this report and the work that has been done will affect many people. many firms will be pleasantly surprised by its balanced result. if we were to write more reports like this, maybe europe would become popular in countries like britain, who knows?
- mr president, i am extremely disappointed that the president of the court of auditors did not present his report to us yesterday. he should have filed his report. he should have canceled all his other engagements. he should have given priority to presenting his report to parliament. we only ask him that once a year. it is fundamental that members have the opportunity to know his views on the european institutions and he should have put this opportunity before all his other commitments. i am very disappointed and i would ask you to write to the president of the court of auditors to convey parliament's disappointment.
madam president, our group is very much in favour of the proposal for a common organization of the market in fisheries, because it will improve consumer information. it will strengthen producer organisations by granting them compensation for improved resource management and bring greater stability to the supply of fish for processing. we also consider that in many respects the report is a significant improvement on the original proposal and we thank mrs fraga for that. we are, however, sceptical about certain points. firstly, we believe that, in the case of several articles, in particular article 11 (2), the original commission proposals offer more guarantees on overfishing than some of the amendments in this report. secondly, we believe that guide prices should be set on the basis of the average of the prices recorded in national ports and not in representative ports, simply because the latter term is too vague. thirdly, many of us feel that the additional costs involved do not warrant extending certain measures to aquaculture, although i personally do not agree with this. aquaculture is extremely important for scotland, where very fragile local economies depend on it. finally, our views are quite mixed on article 28 and the amendment to it. on the one hand, we are afraid that this amendment will delay implementation and we are concerned about its content. secondly, we agree that there should be a rational basis for tariff suspension rather than suspension based on a list of prices provided by the member states. we hope that the commission will provide this rational basis. we both believe that the measures that will be taken are appropriate to the planned regionalisation of the common fisheries policy to which we are firmly committed, and we hope that proposals to this effect will soon be put before parliament.
- i welcome the gallagher report, which i fully support. the rapporteur has once again done a good job. in general terms, i welcome the initiative of the fraga report, which will help to promote market stability. this use of forward-looking methods of adjusting supply and demand by producer organisations should contribute significantly to the overall competitiveness and efficiency of the fisheries sector as a whole. the recognition of the importance of the processing sector is also welcome. this sector creates many jobs and incomes, often in communities that would otherwise be fragile. the emphasis on the importance of basing decisions on scientific and technical data and studies is fundamental, not only for the cmo in the fisheries sector, but also for resource management in general. the proposal will also improve transparency and knowledge of the market and products, particularly for the consumer, which is a positive development. i also support the amendments tabled by the committee to include aquaculture in the support mechanism. the recent crises which have affected and are affecting the scottish salmon industry due to the salmon anaemia virus make it abundantly clear that the aquaculture sector can also be unstable and unpredictable. careful planning and support are therefore vital.
- madam president, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr gallagher on the protection of juveniles of marine organisms and mrs fraga on the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products. both reports deserve our support in general. i have no fundamental problem with mr gallagher's report. as regards the fraga report, although i support the general spirit of the report, it does raise some problems. we welcome the common organization of the market and the strengthening of producer organizations, but there are a few problems. firstly, the danger of unnecessary cost increases: we accept that the age of intervention should be raised, but perhaps not in the way the report proposes. as regards tariff suspensions, we think the criteria are too strict and we would like a more generous system. we want to make sure that it is possible to help the processing industry without harming the producers. as far as herring is concerned, we recognize that the tariff suspension should not become an annual quota. we want those recommendations for cod, alaskan yellow spot and shrimp. as for the amendments, we will certainly oppose amendment no 47 and i would like to express certain reservations about amendments nos 35 and 41, which we cannot support.
- i have the great pleasure of welcoming a delegation from the moroccan parliament, led by the president of the council of the moroccan parliament, mr jalal essaïd, who took his seat in the official gallery. (applause from the left)
- this concludes the vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the
- i abstained on this resolution and i would like to express my reservations on two particular points. the problem of the eurobond market is of general interest to all european citizens. this is not just a london problem. there is no doubt that this is a matter of concern to the people of scotland and i am disappointed with the outcome of the vote. last night in the debate i referred to remarks made by the secretary-general of nato yesterday. i would again draw attention to the fact that he has deliberately engaged in a debate which is partisan politics in the united kingdom, particularly as regards scotland. in doing so, it seems to me that the position of ireland has been misinterpreted, as confirmed by minister andrews in the irish times this morning, as has the position of my own party in this british quarrel. senior officials of international organizations should not engage in such a dialogue, which is partisan politics. that is why i was very disappointed by the remarks on nato in this house.
- this concludes the explanations of vote - communication of common positions of the council - composition of committees - transmission of texts adopted during the present sitting - calendar of next sittings: see minutes.
- i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy. - i think that's all we can do. the committee will meet tonight at 7:30. we have to look at a proposal from the european commission which was submitted to us late. we realise that we cannot speed up the procedure so that we can debate our questions first, so we will debate this at about 11.15 p.m. tonight, in a crowded chamber as usual.
the rapporteur. - this report was adopted in committee by an overwhelming majority - 47 votes to one - without amendment. it concerns the small but important amendment to an existing directive which must be implemented before the end of this year in order to prevent many european companies from being in breach as from january. the finnish presidency would greatly appreciate it if this proposal were adopted this week. the last council meeting of the year will be held this thursday. if the house wishes it and if it agrees, i would like to formally propose that instead of debate we vote on this report on wednesday. this would allow the council to speed up its procedures and satisfy a large number of european industries. i understand that this agreement would be the first that the council would reach unanimously at first reading. i therefore propose a vote without debate on wednesday.
- madam president, you have been extremely gracious to receive his royal highness prince victor emmanuel of italy and myself this afternoon. so i think you know everything that's going on in this case. i will just say, to refresh the memory of my colleagues, that this proposal presented to parliament was aimed at restoring the rights of former royal families in europe, particularly those of austria and italy. they do not enjoy all their civil and political rights as citizens of the european union. prince victor-emmanuel has been in exile for 50 years now. he's an old man. he asks to be allowed to return to his country of origin. why is this urgent ? in fact, the law amending the italian constitution has passed the senate three or four times and the left has always opposed it, although they have said - but the heart was not in it - that it was possible to create a new law to allow the prince to return to italy. parliament must call on the commission to examine this issue for the first time from the point of view of the european union and to restore the full civil and political rights of these families. that's all i want to say.
- madam president, i draw your attention to annex iii to the rules of procedure which sets out the guidelines and general principles to be followed when choosing topical, urgent and important items to be included on the agenda. paragraph 1 states that these matters must be of genuine urgency and must enable parliament to take a decision by a vote on an event scheduled before it takes place, when the only part-session of the european parliament during which the vote can take place in good time is the current part-session. this is an important question. many national parliaments have put it on their agendas for many years. but i do not see how it is urgent in terms of our rules of procedure.
- madam president, this is a procedural motion. mr corbett has been kind enough to raise these matters under annex iii to our rules of procedure. since this is the fifth anniversary, we can deal with this question in any part-session and not in this one in particular. we could therefore propose a debate on this matter at a later date.
- mr president, i would like to thank mr lamy for his interesting and useful remarks this afternoon. i would also like to remind you, on behalf of the eldr group, how grateful we are to him and to his team for the close collaboration we established in seattle. let me make a general point. a lot has been said since seattle about the wto's procedural and organizational shortcomings. any proposals to improve wto procedures are welcome, of course, but we risk reinventing the wheel. the wto is an intergovernmental organisation with over 130 members. it will therefore, by definition, remain a somewhat weighty decision-making forum. unfortunately, it is the unavoidable characteristic of the beast. the fact that we are concentrating on procedural and organizational matters should not make us forget that if the political will had been present in seattle, especially within the american administration, the procedural problems relating to the system would have been solved. our first duty therefore remains political and not technical. this includes re-shaping the public discourse in favour of trade liberalisation, not only in the interests of european businesses and consumers, but above all because trade openness is the only viable long-term solution to poverty in the developing world. the eldr group therefore hopes that the commission, the council and the parliament will take aggressive action to reformulate the political arguments for greater trade liberalisation in general and a new general cycle rather than an intermediate cycle in particular. the eu-us summit the day after tomorrow is the appropriate place to start, since the united states has been the most politically deficient country in recent weeks and months. this need for eu political leadership, which was widely expressed in seattle on international trade matters, is stronger than ever. of course, it is essential to focus on procedural details, but no organizational improvement will compensate for the enormous loss of seattle, a loss of political conviction in the liberalization of open trade, based on multilateral rules.
- mr president, i do not agree with those who have said that the commission, as negotiator, has abused the european union. on the contrary, i support those who said that not only was the delegation they led consistent in carrying out the practical arrangements for us - the largest parliamentary delegation ever to take part in trade talks - but that they had also served our mutual interests. it seems that we will now have to wait for the new millennium to have a millennium cycle. was seattle a victory, a disaster, or an unexpected and timely pause? we are right to say that the procedures could have been better. we need a more efficient decision-making process. we need faster procedures for resolving conflicts. however, it was the substance that was the problem: a traditional trade agenda overburdened with non-trade issues. globalisation has opened up a number of issues concerning the national sovereignty of nation states, issues that have found their way onto a commercial agenda. president clinton said that trade standards for labour in developing countries and other parts of the world should be strengthened; that invitation ended those talks. but if we combine procedure and substance, i welcome the commissioner's support for a parliamentary body. this will not only play into the democratic accountability of the wto and help to establish a permanent interface with non-governmental organisations but will also contribute to the progressive evolution of non-trade concerns on the agenda. these concerns are, after all, raised by elected representatives. in this respect, it can be said that there is an unexpected and opportune pause. but we must not delude ourselves. the us administration will not change its position until after the election. however, we had some very interesting exchanges with the american legislators when we were in seattle. i would ask the commission to help us to widen our contacts in the debate on specific issues such as agriculture during the interim period so that we can contribute to this interim solution. i think they are eager to engage with us on a number of specific issues. perhaps a dialogue between transatlantic legislators can be of benefit to us in this area.
- mr president, members should realize that pascal lamy has been an excellent negotiator. of all the people who participated in the debate, he was by far the most talented and he was the one who showed the greatest vigor. you have to admit it. the seattle talks have undoubtedly turned out to be more complex than we could have anticipated. they were certainly too ambitious, and we should have foreseen that. there was an absurd concentration of time constraints, especially since some time was lost due to external circumstances. the press was hysterical about this conference, not about what was happening in the debates, but about what was happening in the streets, a disorder that was largely due to the clumsiness of the local police. the complexity of the discussions is explained by the number of participants, not only from the countries concerned but also from ngos, lobbies, delegations from national governments and others. the subjects themselves were complex. seattle was not a poker game, but a rough chess game characterized by completely understandable but contradictory demands. the european union was in fact well placed. we have succeeded in imposing environmental and social regulations alongside trade regulations. this can be done in the course of international discussions. it is not easy, but it is essential and we are well placed because we have succeeded in doing so, to some extent. we were well placed thanks to our links with the acp countries, although the question of abandoning them came to cloud the discussions, and thanks to the good work we have always done with the ngos. we were well placed because we had a large parliamentary delegation. i am glad that the socialist amendment in favour of a parliamentary assembly has been welcomed by the whole world. on agriculture, the united states and other countries have refused to understand, although the concept is very simple, the multifunctional reasons behind our common agricultural policy. they refuse to admit that their way of subsidizing agriculture is much less transparent than ours. environmental issues are not unique to rich countries and should not be, although they have been presented as such. we still have a long way to go before they are no longer seen as protectionist. mr lamy said that the biotechnology working party was analysing the facts. however, many feel that they would interfere with the development of the biosafety protocol. i'll have some colleagues tell you more about that. poor countries consider the welfare of animals to be a concern of the rich, and this issue has seemed almost obscene to some when people are starving. much remains to be done in this area, and so does the basic labour standards. the wto must be renewed in a new way. the alternative is for the united states, in a position of strength, to make bilateral agreements with the poorest countries in the world. that's not what we want. parliament must follow this matter with mr lamy and other commissioners until we get a solution that is appropriate for the times we are entering.
- mr president, commissioner lamy and others have spoken of the seattle meeting in terms of failure. i still believe, however, that if the eu and america in particular were to learn the lessons of the past few weeks, the seattle meeting could still go down in history not as a failure but as the moment when world leaders finally realised that they had to take a radically different approach to international trade. they must first understand that the rich countries cannot continue to receive everything for nothing. if they are right to link environmental and social problems with trade problems, they will have to prove that they are not motivated by protectionism and in return they will have to guarantee substantial benefits to the developing countries. these benefits could include free access for all products from the poorest countries, the abolition of maximum tariffs and agreements to stop export dumping. secondly, it is clear that trade matters can no longer be kept secret by the most powerful members of the wto. the developing countries are showing a new determination to oppose this marginalization. the playing field between rich and poor countries is anything but fair. if we take only negotiating capacity, the eu and america were present in seattle with a whole army of lawyers and advisers. poor countries had very little. i have also heard - and i would be glad to know whether this is true or not - that 30 wto members could not even afford to be present at the seattle negotiations. the wto process must be made more democratic and transparent. i believe that a forum is needed to discuss proposals for radical reforms with the environment and development groups who have been working on this subject for many years. we don't have to reinvent the wheel. good proposals have been put forward. we must learn from them. finally, wto members must finally listen to the 1,200 non-governmental organizations from nearly 100 different countries. these ngos signed a declaration calling for no further trade liberalisation until the social and environmental impacts of the current liberalisation have been examined and problems clearly identified. the impasse in the seattle talks gives us an opportunity to do just that.
- mr president, we should not worry too much about whether we should let the commissioner enjoy the congratulations of the european parliament. this is a rare opportunity, so let's let him take it. as he suggests, we must now look forward and not backward. we must welcome any negotiations to modernise and reform the wto and recognize that there is a need for a serious change in the perception of the industrialised world, which some in other countries regard as protectionist. our key objective is that the 135 wto members must have a role to play in the reform process and in what follows. i can confirm that 30 wto member countries were unable to travel to seattle. i kept thinking about the feeling of exclusion that these countries must be feeling. all of them have been adamant all along that all the issues left on the table following the uruguay round - textiles and agriculture in particular - should be dealt with. one thing that encouraged me was that three quarters of the wto members could no longer be ignored. they were the ones who were able to stop it. should it be surprising that they would want this, given that their share of world trade is only 0.4%? we have choices to make: either we allow globalization to develop without direction, or we monitor it closely to ensure that it benefits everyone. we have an opportunity to address the concerns raised in seattle. that means identifying problems and then taking action. of course, the 135-page draft you took to seattle was a problem for us, a draft on which you could not reach agreement. no wonder there were difficulties. at the end of the week, developing countries were simply not ready to accept a "deal" decided in a closed session by the major players. we recognize, of course, that we need a rules-based system if we are to regulate global trade, but we are looking for more openness, we are looking for other, more effective ways of reaching a general consensus.
- mr president, i am glad that we are finally discussing this report. i disagree with the other groups because they did not allow us to discuss this issue at the november part-session. that was not a wise decision. it is a shame that we have not allowed the court of auditors to hold a press conference. we have lost an opportunity: an important public platform. i am also extremely disappointed in the president of the court of auditors, who did not remain in brussels at the beginning of this month. it is undeniable, and the report proves it, that the reform process has been long overdue. we need radical reform if we are to improve a very serious situation. this is the fifth time that the commission has not made a statement of assurance and it must understand, there is no doubt, that it is engaged in the reform process and that it will be judged not only on the basis of its statements and reports but also on the basis of its acts. clearly, to reform itself, the commission must focus not on the purpose of spending but on the extent to which policy objectives are met, and at minimum cost. as mr karlsson said, we must tackle the culture of spending. the commission must therefore set clear, precise and quantifiable objectives. in my own country, wales, we have a lot of funding from the structural funds, but the line between job creation and job preservation is blurred and so it is difficult for us to assess the effectiveness of these funds. the commission needs to fundamentally improve its internal control mechanisms. one of the biggest problems, he emphasized again, is that everyone is taking responsibility for themselves. no one is responsible and the responsibility for spending is shared among too many actors. this clearly needs to be reformed. the next reform must, in our view, guarantee new and rigorous management and control systems. the financial regulation must be reformed. let us not forget that 85% of the funds from the community budget are intended for the member states and they must put their own affairs in order. human resources are also an issue that we must undoubtedly address. this report justified the forced resignation of a lax and negligent commission. it has revealed a whole series of irresponsible acts by the commission, which is prepared to criticise fraud and irregularities but not to fight to stop them. the new commission is moving in the right direction and we hope that these reports will not be needed again. we can forget about them once the reform process has progressed. in conclusion, i would like to ask mr karlsson a question. does he personally think that there is something specific in the 1998 report which would lead parliament not to grant discharge?
commission - (de) mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, subjecting the use of tax revenue to clear political priorities, to the principles of economy and efficiency, these are the objectives to which all those who have to deal with a public budget should strive, and this is the objective to which the new commission subscribes. the court of auditors is responsible for checking that this objective is achieved, for checking that the financial system complies with the provisions of the financial regulation and for informing the commission of the amendments to be made to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. in its 1998 report, the court of auditors set out how many areas urgently needed to be changed. and i do not know, mr bösch, whether the commission has said that it is satisfied that the declaration of assurance could not be granted again. we have, on the contrary, said - as has been emphasized in this house - that we find it alarming that for the fifth year in a row the insurance declaration has been refused. the commission will therefore be making the most of its powers to bring about change. in some areas, changes had already been implemented by the previous commission, as is the case with the structural funds, for example. for the new programming period, new regulations will determine the financial consequences which the commission may incur in the event of a breach of the provisions on award and implementation. in his speech, president karlsson stressed that profound reforms were needed to improve financial management. i am therefore very pleased that the commission is considering the path of reform and will undertake it in the most resolute way. i will mention three elements which are very important in terms of financial management. first, budgeting based on the activities envisaged. in future, and starting with the 2001 budget, the eu budgetary procedure will have to follow political priorities more closely than it has done so far, and decisions on priorities should include not only operational means but also the necessary staff resources to be committed to the priority areas. secondly, the financial accountability of all the services managing eu resources should be strengthened. the commission will follow the course long recommended by the european parliament, which mr karlsson has just described and which i announced in my written answers to the questions put by members in august: that is, transferring the functions of financial control to the administration responsible for the spending programmes or decentralising - and therefore strengthening - the financial responsibility to the administrative departments responsible for spending. the third important keyword is the amendment of the financial regulation. a comprehensive amendment, a new wording, is needed and is already under way. it will take account of many of the criticisms raised by the court of auditors, for example the question of the separate accounting of advances and final payments. this will be an important step towards greater transparency in accounting matters. i should like to speak briefly about the incidents caused by the premature publication of the court of auditors' report and the resulting irritation in parliament. i think we should start thinking together about the timetable for publication and parliamentary debate. i think it would be good if there was a certain time between publication and debate in parliament so that all members of parliament could have the opportunity to read the report before debating it. i believe that a consultation procedure is urgently needed to achieve better results. mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, i intend to analyse sector by sector the court of auditors' relationship with the administrative departments and also - and above all - with the member states and to examine the question of why the errors were made. who should have done differently ? what instruments do we have to avoid such mistakes in the future and within what time frame can adequate improvement be made? systematic follow-up is necessary. i am a strong advocate of such systematic follow-up: i am therefore pleased that the commission has decided, as part of its financial management reform package, to provide this follow-up with a structure so that in future the court of auditors' remarks can actually be used to improve financial management and i ask the european parliament to support this vast reform project.
court of auditors - mr president, i will try to comment on these interesting contributions to the debate. some have said that parliament should have first access to documents produced by the court of auditors, whether it be our annual report or the special reports we draw up throughout the year. i will say unequivocally and very clearly that this is absolutely the rule we will follow: this house will be the first to receive our reports. let me add this to mr pomés ruiz's comment: i entirely agree with him when he says that we must be very demanding with the court of auditors, that it must be above suspicion. what happened here? in fact, the commission has discovered who is responsible for the leak, it knows who passed the draft annual report to the press, and it has taken the necessary measures. it is known that this is not the first time that information has leaked about secret documents. this is what the court of auditors has found so far. i hope we can continue to do so in each case, but i will not deny, as president of the court of auditors, that we may be subject to special requirements because of this. many speakers stressed the responsibility of the member states. i can only confirm that this is a positive response to the challenge facing member states wishing to combat fraud, to put their affairs in order and to improve their control systems. this challenge, as we have indicated in the annual report, could even be greater this year, without in the least diminishing the commission's role and responsibility in this context. the commission must at the same time dare to impose clear conditions and requirements on the member states as regards their control systems. mrs morgan asked me a specific question: does the 1998 report contain any specific element which would lead parliament not to grant discharge? i will explain the role of the court in this context: it must provide you with all the material we consider appropriate and useful, and let you make the political decisions on discharge. i would simply say that the question to be asked is: has the commission done everything in its power to fill the gaps that have been highlighted? i shall not make any specific remarks on any particular point. it is on the basis of all that we have produced, both in this annual report and in the special report which we have drawn up and which we will present, that parliament must take a decision in this respect. i would like to stress what mr van der laan said about fraud within the union and i would also point out, judging from the press reports on fraud in general and the criticisms of public budgets, that you might think that the european budget is more vulnerable than another. that's obviously not true. this is a problem, as has been said many times, which all countries must face, whether at the level of their regional or national budgets. i take this opportunity to point out that the chairman of the committee on budgetary control, mrs theato, and i are addressing a contact committee of all the presidents of the national audit offices of the member states and of the court of auditors. we just wanted to tell these key players that the fight against fraud in european funds is also a national duty. this clearly illustrates the joint work of parliament and the court of auditors to draw the attention of the member states to this issue. i agree with mr staes, this is not a bedtime story, and i was very worried when they started to turn off the lights, but thanks to the courageous intervention of mr dell'alba, they did not continue. i would also like to say that we must continue the efforts to build olaf. in the court of auditors' special report on the activities of uclaf, we have highlighted a number of proposals. we believe that parliament and the member states should adopt the proposals concerning the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office and other measures to continue the fight against fraud.
- the next item is the report (a5-0097/1999) by mrs pack, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a european parliament and council decision establishing the second phase of the community action programme in the field of education socrates (c5-0267/1999 - 1998/0195 (cod)).
- first of all, let me thank mrs pack for guiding us through this process and the commission for not abandoning these hard-fought, long and, in the eyes of parliament, responsible negotiations, after which we were happy to vote in favour of the programme. we all agree that socrates i has brought a vital element into the lives of young europeans. i have seen, in areas of particular social exclusion in my own country, young people who had little experience of the south-east of england, let alone the south-east of france or spain, flourish and develop in terms of confidence and educational capacity as a result of contact with other students from other member states. the programme has succeeded in conveying the values of parliament, which is a considerable success. socrates is an essential element in the development of the educational capacities of our young citizens, not only in terms of cultural capacity but also in terms of economic foundation. we know that this is essential if we are to secure the future of a strong european union. we will benefit from the experience of socrates i and the new coherent and comprehensive approach of socrates ii. but our work does not end here. in the next few years we will have a vital role to play, because we will have to look at the financial and enlargement framework, because that is when socrates ii will have to withstand pressure and prove that it is able to adapt to a new enlarged europe. we must ensure that the new member states can benefit from the wonderful opportunities which are now available to our students.
- mr president, i would like to illustrate the past successes of the socrates programme by means of soup. yes, you heard me. the idea is not mine, but from whitfield primary school in dundee, scotland. they presented a project called "soups in europe", in collaboration with schools in austria, denmark, italy and france. their idea is that everyone eats soup and that soup transcends borders. the project was directly linked to the scottish school curriculum and the project managers organised a parent meeting focusing on soup, in collaboration with their other partners. they presented a book containing 25 soup recipes. thanks to the soup and the support of the socrates programme, students and staff have shown greater motivation and sensitivity to their environment and other places as well. they also have a better understanding of the techniques of information communication. i hope that the next socrates programme will produce more projects similar to the one at whitfield primary school. perhaps the next time you have a bowl of soup you will remember the educational value of the socrates programme throughout the union.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to note that finally, after so many months of discussions and struggle, socrates has become a reality. as mrs pack very well explained in her speech, we have therefore reached an agreement which for all of us - as the members of parliament have said very clearly - is a cornerstone in the construction of a people's europe. the agreement between parliament and the council was reached after a difficult conciliation procedure, but, forgetting the difficulties, we can say that it was a success, and that is what counts. i welcome the constructive spirit in which the negotiations on this programme have been conducted. we have come a long way since the commission put forward its first proposal in may 1998. i would therefore like to express my thanks. first of all, of course, to your rapporteur, mrs pack. the quality of his work is well known - especially to those who have been in this parliament for a long time - and, moreover, it is not his first report on socrates, who is a bit like his child. it was already the rapporteur in 1994 on the socrates i programme and on the budgetary review in 1997. it is no exaggeration to say that, thanks to you, mrs pack, and your personal commitment, community education policy has made extraordinary progress in the last five years. i think it is not we, the members of parliament, or the commission who should thank you, but the young people, the youth of europe, who will thank you, and i think that is the most extraordinary thank you that can be addressed to you. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, i would also like to thank your colleague, vice-president imbeni, who chaired the parliament's delegation to the conciliation, which was not always easy. we sat until 3:30 in the morning: it was not a lot of fun but mr imbeni, with his italian elegance, was able not to scuttle the project, and i am grateful to him. i would also like to thank the epp group and the chairman of the committee on culture, mr gargani, who made a major contribution to the successful outcome of the conciliation. i would also like to thank mrs prets for the quality of her work as a fictitious rapporteur. finally, i turn to the presidency of the council, because my colleague, the minister who was president of the council, had a difficult task. she would have wanted more, but unfortunately she was surrounded by ministers who didn't want it. so, for her courage and commitment, please thank her for me. ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the two action programmes - two, because i am speaking of socrates and leonardo, which was accepted last april - form an integrated package of measures to promote lifelong learning. these two programmes will have a total of 3,000 million for the period 2000 to 2006. i prefer to combine the two programmes, so as to increase the financial envelope a little. we are simply frustrated: we would have liked more money for young people, but the reality is that, given the realpolitik, we have nevertheless achieved - and the members of parliament have made this very clear - a considerable advance. the fundamental objective common to both programmes is to contribute to the progressive construction of a europe of knowledge, capable of imparting to young people and adults the qualifications and skills necessary to enter the labour market and, equally important and sometimes forgotten, society. indeed, a poorly trained person is not able to fit in with society despite all his hidden or apparent abilities, and i think this is a loss not only for the labour market but also for society in general. moreover, both programmes are an integral part of the europe of citizens, as they enable our young people to live experiences that make europe a reality and inspire their confidence. in fact, when we are in contact with schools, whether primary schools or universities, we see that the european education area is a reality, despite what some ministers say. there is therefore no need to go over the terms, because the reality is that this european educational area already exists in everyday practice. i must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that i was at the opening of the academic year at the university of turin this morning. well, i was impressed: 600 students from the university of turin travel every year. since socrates does not allocate enough funds to them, it is the university of turin itself - which has very little money, mr president - that subsidizes them so that they can travel. all this is because there are intelligent men and women who have simply understood that we will not build the europe of tomorrow without the contribution of young people who will have the chance to know other cultures, other education systems. i told turin - a city built on two rivers crossed by many bridges - that i see myself as a bridge builder. let me ask for your help so that together we can succeed in building bridges between national education systems and between them and those of other nations, so that young people, in much greater numbers than in the past, can cross these bridges and engage in the europe of knowledge. mr president, i will end here, because i see that you are very light on the subject. we must not forget that there is not only education, but also culture. but culture wants knowledge, and knowledge of others means not being afraid. and not being afraid is an extraordinary barrier against exclusion, against xenophobia, against the rejection of the other. what we are doing here is a european project in its own right, perhaps the most beautiful and the most successful. if we have not received all the money we wanted, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is not that important. what matters is to replace the lack of money with intelligence and innovation, with new ideas. for these ideas, help me, give them to me. we will try to incorporate new ideas into this new programme which is at our disposal, which is at the disposal of the youth of europe, so that young people can become what we all want: the europeans of tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
- the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0092/1999) by mr busk, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) establishing certain control measures applicable in the area of the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries (com (1999) 345 - c5-0201/1999 - 1999/0138 (cns)).
- i congratulate niels busk on his report. mr busk is a very sensible member of the committee on fisheries and i think parliament can rely on his report. i have no hesitation in supporting this important piece of legislation and i urge parliament to improve it as soon as possible. i would like to make two brief remarks, however. firstly, with this proposal the commission has put the committee on fisheries in front of a fait accompli. these regulations actually came into force on 1 july this year, although the commission presented these proposals to parliament on 12 july. we had no choice but to support these proposals. that's not true. i remember that commissioner fischler said during his hearing before the committee on fisheries on 30 august that he wanted to cooperate closely with parliament and parliament's standing committees and to establish a constructive partnership with them. i hope that this partnership will come about and that the commission will not treat us so cavalierly. we represent the citizens of the european community and we were democratically elected. we are not here merely to approve without discussion regulations which have already been implemented by the commission even before the consultation. secondly, i do not call on my colleagues to vote against the busk report, but i think it is right to call for caution because the rapporteur has called for increased financial participation by the community in fisheries inspection and control. this involves additional budgetary resources and, as my colleagues in the committee on budgets keep pointing out, resources are not unlimited, so when we use some of them, there is less left for other sectors of equal importance. last week, in the context of the report by mrs fraga estévez on the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products, this house decided to finance the aquaculture industry for the first time. once again, we have tapped into the limited budget for the fishing industry. we must be realistic and prudent in financial terms and i hope that this house will take account of my concerns about this latest threat to the budget for the fishing industry.
commission. - i should like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr niels busk, for the excellent report he has presented on the commission's proposal to transpose the napec control scheme into community legislation. in the area of control, the neafc scheme is an example, based on the provisions of the agreement on straddling stocks and high migration, known as the new york agreement. this is an example which is broadly in line with the views expressed by the community in the context of this agreement. measures relating to the conservation of fish stocks and the control of fishing activities should be the subject of agreements concluded within the framework of regional fisheries organisations, and these organisations should serve as a platform for international cooperation. the community has actively contributed to the development of the napec control scheme. the measures adopted are fully consistent with our view and our priorities for improving the control of fishing activities on the high seas. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that the provisions of the napec control scheme be incorporated into community legislation. the community must strive to ensure the success of this control system, which will then serve as an example for other regional organizations, and parliament's support for this proposal shows that in this area and in others too, mr president, as you well know, we share the same view. the issue of financing and burden-sharing needs to be discussed in the wider context of regional fisheries organisations. to enable such a debate to take place, mr fischler has sent you a communication on community participation in regional fisheries organisations, which has also been forwarded to the council. and mr fischler wishes to be involved in the debate on these points in due course next year. on the basis of the conclusions drawn from this wide-ranging debate, the commission will then present new proposals on which parliament will be invited to give its opinion. mr stevenson made a very pertinent remark, mr president, and i must say that the commission accepts the criticisms that have been made. however, these criticisms are not directed against the prodi commission, but against its predecessors, and i have to say, on behalf of commissioner fischler, that we will do everything to ensure that similar criticisms do not have any meaning in the future.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0084/1999) by mrs palacio vallelersundi, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the review of credentials following the fifth direct elections to the european parliament, held from 10 to 13 june 1999.
- i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report. a car accident can be traumatic, especially if there are injuries. the problem is that the victims are abroad, and the problems are multiplied by ten: differences in language, procedures, inability to identify or trace third parties, and problems of insurance. the simple identification of third parties is often very lengthy and often takes a lot of time. once the insurers are in contact, things are usually settled by negotiation. this directive would help to ensure faster contact between insurers and greater speed in the submission of claims settlement proposals. so far, it's going well. but our rapporteur wants to go a little further and i think, like other speakers, that we should support him. this is the case with accidents in third countries. i will take as an example a case which i personally dealt with as a lawyer before i became a member of parliament. a german citizen had an accident in turkey for which a british citizen was responsible. this case was negotiated by insurance companies in two member states, and if it had to be litigated, it would have been in the united kingdom, in accordance with british law. so tell me , what 's the problem ? this is what happens in practice. so if the rapporteur wants to go a little further, that is not a problem. the problems that have been raised can be resolved if we want to. finally, i just want to make a small comment on the question of damages. i hope we can come back to it in the future. the extent of the damage and the way in which it is calculated vary widely within the european union. we would be doing our citizens a great service if we could harmonize this sector too.
- mr president, i would first like to express my admiration for the work done by the rapporteur in drawing up this report. it was difficult enough to get it through parliament for first reading. it has been even more difficult to pass it on to second reading given the many opposing opinions, the clashing scientific opinions and the pressure from various industry-related sectors on specific substances. that said, the rapporteur has done a remarkable job and we now have a coherent set of amendments, a coherent position that goes beyond the common position, beyond what mrs flemming is able to envisage. i am surprised by his remarks, since we went beyond the common position in beijing last week. we must support this report. there are issues of the utmost importance at stake here. if the ozone layer is not repaired as soon as possible and if the damage is not contained, the world's population will be increasingly affected by skin cancer and more and more eye damage. in fact, this is already the case in some parts of the world. we as europeans must continue to set an example. there is no question of going back on certain substances, despite some very strong requests to do so. we can only allow certain other substances to be used further if there is a real risk that other supplies that could be used for existing equipment could be smuggled into the union. we must recognize that the montreal protocol has progressed step by step. he took another step forward last week in beijing. we got rid of the cfcs, we treated other substances like hcfcs and halons. we must continue to ensure that this process continues. the european union must help the third world and developing countries to adopt rapidly new technologies which do not damage the ozone layer, which do not use chemicals responsible for destroying it. to do that we must support the rapporteur's amendments and carefully analyse some of the amendments which i hope we will decide in conciliation to make further progress.
- mr president, humans, through their stupidity, have damaged the ozone layer. this layer protects the life that evolves on the planet and now we must do everything in our power to repair this damage. few have opposed the principle of phasing out hcfcs and methyl bromide. the committee was particularly interested in the time limits to be set. all members were given a lot of conflicting factual information, so it was not easy for them to make a judgment. like the rapporteur, the liberal democrats want rapid progress, they want maximum profits as quickly as possible. but the choices are not obvious. there is a real fear that some of the rapporteur's well-intentioned amendments may actually make things worse. the main concern is that they will make it more difficult to phase out harmful cfcs, which cause so much damage to the ozone layer, especially in developing countries, far more than the substances mentioned in his report. we do not want to take the risk because the benefits offered by these proposals are far too small. we support the rapporteur's objectives and we will support most of his amendments, but we do not think that it has addressed all our environmental concerns.
- mr president, i too would like to congratulate mrs hulthén on the work she has done to draft this report. actions have already been taken to solve the problem of the ozone layer. they are considered to be one of the few success stories of international environmental law. since the mid-1990s, the depletion of the ozone layer appears to have slowed down, mainly as a result of efforts to reduce emissions of the substances responsible for this depletion. but we must not shout victory. we have not yet reached our goal and we are still far from it. according to the european environment agency, the ozone layer over antarctica reached an extremely low level in the summer of 1998, the lowest on record in an area as large as europe. the same phenomenon is observed in the northern hemisphere. it is therefore important that we set ambitious goals that we must achieve. the commission's initial proposal is a step in the right direction. however, we believe that the council has weakened this text. i therefore ask my colleagues to support the amendments which have been adopted in committee in order to improve the common position.
the rapporteur. i don't know about you, but this party reminds me a lot of the titanic. i have a horrible feeling that the boat is sinking. i hope i'm wrong, but if we keep this up, we may have to get together and sing "nearer, my god", standing in the middle of the room. when the commission responds, i hope the commissioner will be kind enough to speak in english. the fact that he is answering in english is very much appreciated because this is a matter of interest to many of our voters who are keen to know what is going on, so we would very much appreciate the commissioner answering in english if he could. we are very unhappy about this and the commission has not dealt with it satisfactorily. the environment committee of parliament has drawn up a short resolution so that members can debate it with the commission and try to get some clarification. what are the elements that we don't like? firstly, the approach which the commission has had to adopt and secondly, the content of the proposal which is before us. we are discussing a draft commission regulation this evening. the european parliament does not have the possibility of proposing amendments to this draft regulation through our usual procedures. we can only object, and if we did, we would delay the agreement. that's not really what we want. we are therefore taking this opportunity to debate this. in the proposal under consideration, we emphasize that we believe that in future this kind of question will have to be dealt with through the codecision procedure. in fact, the committee members have found that the overall approach of the european union to genetically modified food is rather confusing at the moment. in fact, a number of commissioners are dealing with the matter, although mr liikanen seems to be taking the lead. the legislation on this subject has been proposed in a disjointed way. we already have a regulation on novel foods, but that's another part of the puzzle. we realise that consumers may be very confused about what the commission is proposing and may not understand the impact of these proposals on themselves and the food they consume, and they may not understand the labels they read. the european commission has not yet made any proposals on the labelling of genetically modified substances when they are contained in animal feed. we are waiting for proposals on this. overall, the committee has received rather contradictory signals as regards the recommended maximum level of 1% of non-labellable gmos. i would urge the commissioner to explain to us, when he comes into the debate, in the most open way possible, why the european commission has chosen a rate of 1%. i understand that the commissioner has been under considerable pressure to set this rate at a much higher level. to satisfy certain us interests, the commission should have fixed a rate of 5%. on the other hand, some in the commission believe that a rate of 0.1% would have been quite feasible and have pointed out that some supermarket chains in the european union insist on this rate. the commission will no doubt tell us that the 1% rate is the only way to guarantee that test methods are available so that they can be firmly introduced into community legislation. if so, how can supermarket chains argue that a 0.1% rate is perfectly possible? are the test methods available? and what about the requests from the supermarkets? the committee really didn't like that. it has therefore made it clear to the european commission that it wishes to review this proposal without delay. i hope that the commission will give us its comments on the feasibility of this. if the 1% rate is technically feasible, there are many within the community who want to make sure that it can be revised downwards, and we would like to hear the commission's view on this. finally, let us return to the question of the implementation of paragraph 6 of the resolution. can the commission say with certainty that this maximum rate of 1% will be able to be applied to very small quantities of ingredients? the regulation says that this 1% rate can be applied to components of products and not necessarily to the product as a whole. if that is the case, we are talking about very small amounts in fact, and some in the committee think that, in essence, the proposal before us tonight is not applicable and that parliament, in drafting it, has again produced something that looks valid but will not work in practice.
- mr president, i want to say at the outset that i agree with mrs jackson: we are sinking, perhaps not as fast as the titanic, but i understand that this building was built on soft ground. it may take a long time, but i'm confident it won't sink into the mud it was built on. the ground floor was already flooded when it was built. i think we won't have to wait too long before that happens again. to return to the matter at hand, mrs jackson has essentially asked all the right questions in the right order. this proposal was unanimously supported by the commission because we believe that action is needed, and quickly, to satisfy consumers who demand labelling of products and to meet their desire to know what they are eating. the consumer has a right to know. the commission has made a courageous attempt to draw up a document, albeit a limited one, to help consumers. i support this initiative. but how effective will these arrangements be? will they work? we have a 1% limit on all foodstuffs - and some of you know as i do that supermarkets and others are already exceeding this limit in their food requirements. this limit, i am told, can easily be reached by anyone who wishes to avoid having to label products containing genetically modified food by accidental contamination, whatever that means. therefore, i think that an early review is going to be extremely necessary. the implementation of this regulation will not change much: the vast majority of products in supermarkets will not be labelled, as is the case today, because they may contain a small amount of gmos, below the limit set. here's what's going to happen. we're making a bold attempt here. the commission is making a bold attempt. i want to make clear the scope of this proposal. i am told that it applies only to soya and maize products at the moment. i would like the commission to tell us how well it thinks these provisions will work and how quickly it will be able to change them if they do not work.
- mr president, this is a very important matter, there is no doubt about it, and we must deal with it with a certain degree of urgency. it is not just a question of reassuring the consumer, the industry also wants to operate in a safe atmosphere. i have some experience in industry, although i have cut ties with that sector since i have been in parliament. i was the general manager of a company that sold snacks, tortilla chips, and other items. this company also sold an excellent english method, the "pork scratchings" - which i quote only to make the interpreters work. tortilla chips are made with american corn. so when our customers asked us for guarantees on the corn that was used (corn that had been kept its identity and that didn't contain gmos), we had a lot of problems. all the tests we have done, testing what was widely available commercially, have shown that even this corn could sometimes be randomly contained between 1 and 2 percent of genetically modified substances. i will therefore reply to mr bowe and other members who say that the 1% rate is an easy level to reach, that my experience tells me that this is not true. this rate is a real challenge. i think that the industry has accepted this limit with great concern. if this rate is reduced, the industries will simply label everything with a label stating 'may contain genetically modified food' - because the industrial sector will not reach this limit. that would completely undermine the purpose of labelling. this is my first observation: the objective is already difficult to achieve. my second comment on a review is this: the industrial sector needs guarantees. the constant changeover every 12 months is not good for the industry and confuses the consumer. as a final comment, i would like to return to the first point raised by mrs jackson: when labelling becomes compulsory, we will have to ensure that equivalent rules are actually applied throughout the union. as we enter a new millennium, perhaps we can start a new trend and ensure that these laws are implemented and enforced universally.
- madam president, in order to help mr galeote and other members to take full advantage of our plenary sessions, i wonder if in the future we will not have the opportunity to keep the same seat in this house. it seems that we are constantly changing seats and members sometimes have difficulty finding their seats. even in the old chamber, where seats were not allocated, we were at least able to sit in the same place. we wonder how much longer it will take to print new distribution lists. could we possibly remedy this situation?
- mr president, with your permission, i welcome the reforms concerning the council itself and, in particular, the programme which has been adopted to improve the performance and the coordinating role of the general affairs council. the enlargement of the council's powers in the field of defence highlights the need to improve its working methods. on the other hand, this enlargement requires that the european parliament also has powers in this area, particularly after the disappearance of the assembly of the western european union, in order to provide democratic control worthy of the name in this sensitive and controversial area. what does the presidency intend to do to initiate a dialogue with parliament on security and defence issues and when does the presidency's defence minister intend to make a statement on the development of a common european security and defence policy? i would be extremely grateful if the chair could answer these questions.
, president of the council. - (fi) mr president, i should like to thank you for the kind words addressed to the finnish presidency, but also for the criticisms that have been expressed. the need to amend the basic treaties was given great attention in the discussion at the intergovernmental conference. the helsinki european council took the view that the intergovernmental conference should be completed fairly quickly, if possible by the end of next year, so that the agreements could be ratified and enlargement could begin. there are, in my view, two points of view here which i would like to examine. first of all, these three points which remained unresolved in amsterdam are not at all unimportant. we have already spoken here about the extension of decisionmaking by qualified majority. the fact that this is on the agenda means, in my view, that we must make progress in this direction. but this is already a matter of principle and the agenda will be set by the different views of the member states. the door has, however, remained open and the intergovernmental conference will consider whether other important questions concerning the amendment of the treaties should be raised, so that the european council can re-examine this question. i would like to put forward another point of view here: do we think that enlargement should be postponed? since, in my view, we are faced with fundamental questions concerning the amendment of the treaties, and since the national parliaments are ratifying these questions, we should have sufficient time within the member states to discuss these questions and we should involve the national parliaments in these reforms. it's not an easy task. i recognize this and i would like to thank mr romano prodi for having the courage to raise these issues which are important for the future of europe. we must talk about it in the next few years, but we cannot do it all at once, that is the problem. the question of languages, for example, requires maturity and courage. as a representative of a small country, i can say that we must be prepared. we have had a lot of talk here about security and defence policy. i cannot answer in the negative whether the defence ministers might come here, but the general affairs council is looking at these matters and the defence ministers may possibly be there. it is quite understandable and necessary that the european parliament should wish to give attention to these matters and i agree with mr poettering that there should be no delay in this matter. that is why we in finland are pleased that we have been able to reach this point during the finnish presidency, which provides us with guidelines for action in the future. mr seppänen may not have read the treaty of amsterdam. we are acting here in the framework of the amsterdam treaty. the helsinki conclusions show that there is no question of a european army and that we are really not creating a crisis management capacity or a crisis management force to be sent to war. in his speech, mr suominen spoke of the nordic dimension. in this respect we have achieved what the finnish presidency wanted, namely that at the previous conference in helsinki the member states and the partner countries agreed to draw up an action programme. the european council in helsinki confirmed this. in finland we are of course very pleased with this, but i would like to stress once again that europe has a northern and a southern dimension, as well as an eastern and a western dimension. they are all common issues for us. in the nordic dimension, we are talking above all about long-term cooperation with russia, which is also a great advantage for us, regardless of what is happening in russia and chechnya. we have also discussed sport here. why did it disappear from the summit agenda? sport is undoubtedly a significant social factor and an important thing for millions of europeans. i think it is necessary to return to this question. of course, there is a question of competence and there are many points of view. there is the internal market aspect - let us remember the bosman case - and there is the health aspect, which relates to doping cases. the question really needs to be examined and the european council has not wanted to take a position on this question in its conclusions because the necessary preparation and discussion were lacking. finally, as a legacy of the finnish presidency, i would like all the institutions of the union to give serious consideration to the question of transparency and good administration. i understand that we're dealing with different cultures. in no country can we say "things are better here". we must understand each other, but we must clearly move towards greater transparency. when the amsterdam treaty was drawn up, the idea and the initiative of finland, which were accepted, was that transparency is the first principle, to which exceptions are made, not the other way around. that is the spirit in which we must continue. the balance between the institutions is a very important thing. we who have held the presidency have had experience of this and i would like us to focus more on cooperation, rather than competing to see who has gotten what and first, because we need it. each institution has an extremely important task. from the point of view of a small country, we need a strong commission. we must have a council which acts and whose objective is the common interest. the european parliament must monitor all this. we can bring new ideas here. it is a forum where europeans meet to discuss important issues for the future. i would also like to thank you, on behalf of finland, for the important support we have received from all the institutions and all the member states of the european union. (applause) i would like to thank
- i would like to take this opportunity to express, on behalf of parliament and through you, our thanks to your services for the good cooperation we have had over the last six months.
- mr president, this was a truly historic summit, particularly with regard to defence and enlargement, not to mention the igc. finally, the union is facing the challenges of security in europe. i would like to mention the case of turkey. i recognize that making turkey an official candidate for membership will help to improve the country's situation in terms of democracy and human rights. this situation is a source of concern which does not reflect any hostility towards turkey but our attachment to the future of this country within europe. turkey's violations of european standards of democracy and human rights are largely due to its refusal to recognise the rights of the kurds, which is also used as a pretext for military control of the state. it is therefore surprising that neither the osce summit declaration nor the helsinki conclusions contain any reference to the kurds. turkey cannot align itself with european values or guarantee security as long as it refuses to recognise an identity specific to its kurdish citizens. i welcome the signs that the death sentence against abdullah öcalan may be commuted. however, the union must make it clear that if öcalan is executed, the accession negotiations cannot take place. we must urge the turkish authorities to respect the ceasefire of the pkk and to move towards a political settlement which recognises the cultural and democratic rights of the kurdish people. finally, the british government must not finance export credits for the ilisu dam, which threatens to be a disaster for the human rights of the kurds, as well as an ecological disaster.
- mr president, the helsinki summit took account of the proposed charter of fundamental rights. today president chirac has clearly expressed the idea that an enlarged europe must be built around respect for fundamental rights. we agree, but we insist that a democratic european union must be based on the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. my snp colleague mr hudghton and i were not among those who, in a sign of bad temper, uncivilly left the chamber this morning at the time of president chirac's speech, which allowed mr hudghton to explain our point of view to president chirac and to obtain a commitment of a possible reply to a letter we had sent yesterday. another hot topic is enlargement. we share the enthusiasm for enlargement, provided that the necessary institutional reforms are pursued. it should be remembered, however, that the applications for membership are not limited to nations of central and eastern europe: there are also former western european nations, represented here by the european free alliance, which aspire to be equitably recognized as members of europe. our demands deserve better than an embarrassed silence that contrasts with the welcome to which others are entitled. the reform of the institutions must create the necessary space for proper recognition of existing regions and nations that are not represented. the european union is a regional union, a union of regions, a union of regions, a union of regions. not only has the helsinki council made only a paltry amount of progress in addressing the democratic deficit, it has done absolutely nothing about what should be called a regional deficit. our task in the european free alliance is to get this deficit recognised and to remedy it with the help of our colleagues in the green group/european free alliance.
commission - (de) mr president, madam minister siimes, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the helsinki summit were presented and discussed this morning. the decisions taken at helsinki on the enlargement strategy, the intergovernmental conference and the common foreign and security policy are of great importance for the union. the finnish presidency of the council has completed a very substantial agenda; the summit was a success, a good conclusion to 1999 and the millennium declaration is a good start for the future. it would be all the more regrettable if we could not report a positive conclusion to the budgetary procedure. the new budget for the year 2000 is the obvious basis for a good policy. the budgetary procedure has presented us with some tough negotiations, but i do not intend to go through the whole procedure. we have now reached a fundamental agreement on the basic points. as mrs siimes has said, the council and parliament agree to allow the use of the entire flexibility reserve to finance expenditure on kosovo. above all, we also agree - and this was also particularly important to parliament, and rightly so in my view - to adhere to an important political declaration that the european union's expenditure in kosovo and the balkans must be spread over several years and that the financial support for this expenditure may lead to an increase in foreign policy expenditure compared with the expenditure planned at the beginning of the year and which was due to a different political situation. in order to be able to finance this additional expenditure in the coming years and, above all, to be able to comply with the overall framework agreed in berlin, an amendment, a revision of the financial forecasts may prove indispensable because it is precisely the setting of new priorities, combined with budgetary discipline, that may make it necessary to amend the financial forecasts. it has already been pointed out in this house that the commission cannot at present define precisely the financial requirements for the whole of the balkans. the commission, and in particular my colleague mr patten, and the administration are actively working on this. but there is a very thorough study by the world bank and the commission on the reconstruction of kosovo which shows that the need for external financial aid for the next few years is expected to amount to $2.3 billion or euro because, in addition to the damage caused by the war, the political situation in kosovo in recent years, which has been disastrous for the people, has also caused an accumulation of damage. the immediate needs are very important because we cannot pretend that the rebuilding of houses or schools and the supply of electricity are future tasks. no, it's today. the need is urgent and i really hope that we can find a solution that addresses those needs now and not put them off. it was agreed that 300 million should be budgeted for the year 2000, in addition to the 60 million from this year's redeployment, and that the 140 million promised at the donor conference should be included in the amounts promised for 2001. important decisions were also taken in helsinki in connection with the enlargement of the european union. negotiations are continuing with six candidate countries and have begun with six new candidate countries. to this end, the budget provides for pre-accession aid to rise from 1.3 billion this year to 3.1 billion next year. new programmes are being financed in the fields of agriculture, infrastructure, transport and environmental protection. this is an important milestone in bringing the applicant countries closer to the union. the use of these resources will be the subject of particular attention by my departments in terms of financial control. the financial control system is a specific chapter of the negotiations. in order to assess the expenditure which may result from enlargement - the financial framework adopted in berlin will free up resources from the year 2000 onwards - i will propose to the commission that a permanent assessment be made of the economic situation and the necessary expenditure which may result from enlargement. it should also be clear to the people of the member states that enlargement is not a financial adventure. the 2000 budget provides commitments of eur 32 million to support structural policy in the member states. financially, the new programming period 2000-06 can therefore begin, with a new programme which will ensure in particular that the aid from the structural funds will at the same time contribute to improving equality between men and women, to the objective of environmental protection and to improving the employment situation. i can assure you that we will oblige the member states to commit these resources in such a way as to achieve these objectives. the 2000 budget includes 41 billion for agricultural policy. i would like to emphasize the resources devoted to the second pillar of this policy, namely the programmes for the promotion of rural development. the european parliament has made a strong commitment to this second pillar of the agricultural policy. i will also try to ensure that these programmes are carried out very well in this particular area, to the extent possible. i would also like to point out that the 2000 budget provides for the reinforcement of olaf's staff - this has also been mentioned - and that this will make the european anti-fraud office better able to carry out its duties. i would also like to stress - and the credit for this goes to the rapporteur, mr bourlanges, in particular - that the commission will examine its whole system of transferring activities to bat. mr bourlanges proposed, in particular, the creation of a new administrative unit whose form would be similar to that of the agencies. the commission has agreed a timetable for reforming the current system. even though their report is not being discussed today, i would like to thank very warmly mr bourlanges, mr virrankoski and mr colom and especially the chairman and the members of the committee on budgets for the intensive work they have done in recent months. i would also like to thank the council and congratulate you, mrs siimes, on the way you have handled the finnish presidency. i even understood that you had proposed a solution to the last dispute between the council and parliament on the whole procedure, namely the reduction of payments by eur 2 billion. i think we should write it down again. the strength of the european institutions lies in the ability to reach compromises. the negotiations have been long but we have reached a point where an agreement can be reached. the point now is to seize the opportunity to get the 2000 budget off to a good start for the year 2000. i very sincerely ask parliament to take this step.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. - mr president, let me first of all, on behalf of my committee, say how much i appreciated the comments of the president-in-office suggesting that we could reach an agreement on the budget fairly quickly. i would also like to congratulate the finnish presidency for having made it possible for us to go this far. i have to restrain my enthusiasm for the president-in-office's statement for the moment, because i do not quite understand what she meant by chapter 4. the president-in-office said that the council did not want the ceiling for chapter 4 to be changed on a permanent basis. does this mean that we will continue to use chapter 4 on an ad hoc basis, that we will have a flexibility clause every year and therefore have a pretext for not touching the financial perspective when the reality turns out to be very different? i would advise caution in this respect because, as mr bourlanges has said, we are facing an unpredictable situation in the balkans, not only in relation to mr milosevic but also in relation to the death of mr tudjman. these are the data that raise questions about the long-term viability of the direction we are currently taking. i would like to have some clarification on this.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation to the council. - mr president, this year has been historic in many ways. the commission, i am sure, would prefer to forget some of the most significant events of last spring, just as many of us would prefer to forget some of the most spectacular election results of the summer. the commission's resignation was due to fraud and mismanagement being the main complaints. that is why this year's budget really had to reflect the need to strengthen budgetary control procedures and, as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control for the 2000 budget, i would like to welcome once again the establishment of a new anti-fraud body and the creation of new posts for olaf, as can be seen in this year's budget. the process of appointing the director of olaf is now well under way. the committee on budgetary control has heard the candidates; i think that the commission has chosen three and i understand that a meeting is to be held tonight to try to reach an agreement between the representatives of parliament, the council and the commission. it should also be borne in mind that the technical assistance offices played an important role in the forced resignation of the commission. the conclusions of the strategy paper adopted by the commission on 10 december were that the commission should not outsource public tasks but should be able to have a much more flexible range of possibilities for tasks which are not fundamentally public. i couldn't agree more. the commission now has so many different functions and so many different functions that it should be able to have a wide range of solutions for carrying out non-public tasks. the single model method does not have any advantages. what needs to be done is to review the staff regulations to provide more flexibility for the recruitment of contract staff for these offices.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, the special committees depend very much on the general rapporteur to do their work. i am pleased to say that we have had a very good year with mr bourlanges, who has negotiated well on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy. he defended both the ideas of the committee on budgets and his own, in particular his wish to clearly distinguish between administrative expenditure in order to better control it. we are happy to support him in this. we welcome the compromise reached on the fifth framework programme, which allows us to exercise effective control without making it impossible for the commission to manage the programmes. as far as energy is concerned, we are disappointed by the relatively modest amounts allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency. we will come back with new proposals next year. generally speaking, we are satisfied. we shall be watching very closely the appropriations for which we shall be voting on thursday.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. - the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. since this was my first appointment as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, mr bourlanges was very helpful and paid close attention to the points i raised: although he did not always agree, he was very impartial. i also welcome the decisions taken by the council and the commission. the one on the funds allocated to kosovo is a good one and, in general, the others have been relatively well received by the committee on the environment. i was pleased to hear mrs schreyer mention the budgetary increase for the veterinary office, which is particularly important if we want it to be able to deal with the problems caused by the bse crisis and the dioxin crisis in belgium; the same applies, of course, to the continuation of the work in portugal. this money is needed and we are very pleased that you have recognized it. as far as health is concerned, we have achieved some very modest improvements. the budget lines reserved for the committee on the environment contain only very small amounts; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it has nevertheless allowed us to undertake the initial research which will help us to develop the question of health competence as provided for in the amsterdam treaty. the amount involved, though modest, is significant. as far as consumer policy is concerned, we are pleased to see that the agreement reached on the whitehead report and the conciliation procedure which was carried out on it last year have delivered on their promises and that the money will follow. we expect general benefits for next year. on the environment, the most important procedure under way concerns the lienemann report, i am talking about the conciliation on the life programme, for which we hope to obtain a favourable outcome. i will conclude with a call, however. the question of the staffing of the european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products is urgently needed now that we are about to adopt the orphan medicinal products regulation in february. we have to do something now.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. - the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a committee we fully support the approach of the committee on budgets in the various areas, but i would particularly like to stress its efforts to increase payment appropriations under the structural funds. secondly, we draw your attention to its efforts to restore the approximately 33 million payment appropriations which had been cut from the interreg programme line. thirdly, we would like to thank the commission for its efforts to reverse the unacceptable cuts in the transport safety line. we welcome the progress made in this respect. fourthly, we welcome the progress made towards restoring the amounts originally earmarked for the environmentally friendly sustainable mobility line. we agree with everything the committee on budgets has done so far, and we support its request to reserve 20% of the payment appropriations for the interreg and urban initiatives, pending a satisfactory agreement on the guidelines. you can count on our full support, mr bourlanges, and we hope that parliament will adopt the committee's proposals in the vote to be held this week.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. -en) mr president, this is the third time that i have been appointed rapporteur for the opinion on the budget of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and i would particularly like to thank the general rapporteur on the budget, mr bourlanges, for his help and cooperation. i have only two comments to make in the time allotted to me. the first is that culture and education are important for europe, not only for the past but also for the future of our continent. we are neglecting them at our own peril and by persisting year after year in spending less on culture and education than we do on tobacco cultivation, we are not only neglecting them but are completely reversing the order of our priorities. with so little money to spend, it is important to spend it wisely and efficiently. secondly, do you know that today, 14 december 1999, the european youth orchestra, the youth parliament and the yehudi menuhin foundation, to name just three, are still waiting to receive the grants we voted for this year? we tell them the checks have been mailed. i'm afraid that's not a good excuse for their banker. it's good to make promises, but you have to keep them. that is a remark which i think applies a little too often to europe. i call on the commissioner to ensure that this can never happen again.
commission -(en) the cologne european council decided that a charter of fundamental rights of the european union should be drawn up before the european council in december 2000. it has decided that this charter should be drawn up by a body composed of 15 representatives of the heads of state or government, 16 members of the european parliament, including the author of the question, 30 members of the national parliaments and myself, representing the president of the commission. the composition of this body was finally decided in tampere and its first meeting is to take place next friday, 17 december. the nature of this charter is a very fundamental question which the council has nevertheless preferred to leave open. on the basis of the conclusions, it will be necessary to consider whether the charter should be incorporated into the treaties and, if so, how. although the final decision on the status of the charter is left to the heads of state or government, the body responsible for drawing up the charter will have to consider in its proposal either a legally binding text ready to be incorporated into the treaties or a solemn political declaration. these discussions will also have to be conducted with due regard to the close links with the preparatory work of the igc. the commission is of the opinion that the european charter of fundamental rights must address two very different concerns: visibility and legal certainty. as regards visibility, it is reasonable to assume that a solemn political declaration issued by the european institutions and relayed through all communication channels would be sufficient. as regards legal certainty, however, we must look at how the european charter of fundamental rights can help to improve the level of protection of these rights within the european union and, in this context, it is hard to imagine that a non-binding text can help to clarify and transcend the current system of protection. the commission believes that the charter to be presented by the heads of state or government must have real added value and that the best way to achieve this is to focus on the fundamental rights which result from the union itself. the body responsible for drawing up the charter will have to develop a text which has real political significance and can be incorporated into the treaty. it is clear that the principle of drawing up such a charter is generally welcomed and that citizens hope that it will serve as a reference text in this field. the commission is convinced that they must not be disappointed.
- the commissioner surprised me by going so far in his reply, which i very sincerely welcome. i look forward to working with him on the charter-making body. do you not agree with me that if we are to end up with a political statement, we will have wasted a year? it is not necessary to mobilize 62 people to draft a political declaration. if that is the result we are going to achieve, we might as well ask two officials to draw up a draft summary of the rights currently contained in the treaty. what we must aim for at the end of this process is a legally binding set of fundamental rights for european citizens.
commission -(en) first of all, i have already threatened the macedonian foreign minister with a visit. since this prospect seemed to delight him, i am planning a visit to that country early next year. i also told him that when i came i wanted to be able to open an office of the european union in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, because we need a bigger permanent representation in that country than we have now. i very much hope that we will be able to start negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement in the spring of next year. the sooner we finish these negotiations with the yugoslav army the better. the more we do this, the sooner we can proceed to the ratification of this agreement by the member states. arym is only the first country with which, as the honourable member knows, we are trying to negotiate an agreement. i very sincerely hope that soon after these negotiations have been opened, we will be able to open negotiations with others, and perhaps in the first place with albania. however, i think there's still a lot of things to do with this country.
- we have discussed today the budget for next year and the difficulties the european union is having in finding the funds needed to finance operations in kosovo. i would therefore ask the commission whether it has carried out an analysis of what instability in macedonia would cost and, to follow up the commissioner's last point, whether it is true that we must guarantee stability in albania to maintain stability in macedonia.
commission i am aware of price differences between the united kingdom and other member states and i share the honourable member's concerns. the commission found that these differences were partly due to the strength of the pound sterling, while member states which tax motor vehicles heavily have low net prices. this is particularly the case in denmark, finland and the netherlands. i think that greater price transparency and the introduction of the euro are increasingly encouraging customers in member states with high market prices to buy their vehicles in other member states. this parallel trade is an important factor in the convergence of prices throughout the union and is directly linked to the market. the commission has taken several initiatives to guarantee this freedom for consumers. in its report on the application of regulation 1475/95 on car distribution, due before the end of 2000, the commission will assess the impact of the tax-free distribution system on vehicle prices. in fact, this report should form the basis for future discussions on the future legal framework to be given to the automotive distribution sector after the expiry of the current regulation on 30 september 2002.
- thank you for your answer, commissioner. in my question i am referring to similar situations and while it is true that the case of car prices is perhaps the most publicized, there are other sectors where companies are making a mockery of the single market. ikea, a swedish furniture company that you may have heard of, offers two examples in its latest catalogue. so it will cost you £94 in the uk for a psyche which costs less than £70 in denmark, and almost £875 in the uk for a corner sofa which costs less than £600 in denmark. and these are just two examples from one company. there are many other cases where people in the united kingdom and, as far as i know, in other member states are exploited by companies. i wonder if the commission could consider taking action to protect the consumers who rely on it and the european parliament to protect them from such practices. could you not consider taking action in this respect, not just in the automobile sector, which is perhaps the most publicized example?
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i believe that the defence of consumer interests is the centrepiece of the european union's competition policy. would we go so far as to say that a single market is truly a single market when there is unity of price? i do not think so because there will always be factors which justify certain price differences. it could also be considered that a perfect unity of prices in a given market may conceal the presence of a dominant cartel in that market. however, i agree with you that many of the price differences in the single market today are due to the remaining disagreements and obstacles. two powerful factors are currently at work to help the market overcome these divergences and this will increasingly be the case. the first is, of course, the euro, which will make price comparisons easier, and the second, which has a major impact on the distribution of goods and services, is the internet. you ask whether the commission should not intervene in certain cases of wide price divergences. we should and we do. as regards the motor vehicle sector in particular, you should know that the commission has already taken several initiatives in the past and, even more recently, it has taken action against the restrictions imposed by car manufacturers on parallel imports of vehicles. the publication of comparative lists of car prices is another measure which goes much in the same direction. the last edition was published on 22 july 1999. we agree that the commission could also use the instruments at its disposal in the context of competition policy. let me tell you, that's what she does.
- i am pleased to note that the commissioner, with the british minister for trade and industry, mr byers, has succeeded in creating the impression that the european automobile industry is leading, if i may say so, the british consumers astray. but i must confess that i do not agree with you when you say that it is simply a matter of exchange rates, because that is not enough to explain why some vehicles cost about £4,000 more in the uk than, say, in the netherlands. if it were simply a matter of exchange rates, prices would also fall according to the whims of the exchange rate. why, for example, are imported cars - which now account for over 70% of the uk market - more expensive when the pound rises? how is it that the level of exports by british car manufacturers to the continent is reaching record levels when exports are precisely costing more? why are uk-built vehicles cheaper on the continent when the pound's price is driving up the price of our exports? i'm afraid i can't see the logic in all this. i think, after an 18-month investigation by a british newspaper in the wake of your own investigation, that time is running out and the car industry now wants to find a solution to the problem. if i were to bring together the representatives of industry, dealers and manufacturers, would you agree to join them in discussing ways of getting out of this situation, if necessary by resorting to the instruments of competition?
commission -en) i thank you, mrs mccarthy, also for your insistence on the urgency of using the competition instruments, which we are already doing. let me draw your attention once again to the fact that we have carried out quite a few investigations into restrictions on parallel imports and in some cases have already reached a conclusion leading to rather substantial fines. it would of course be inappropriate to attribute price differences, particularly for motor vehicles, to exchange rate differences alone. i have mentioned this as one factor, but it is understood that it is not the only one. the differences in the taxation of different categories of vehicles is a factor, of course, but it brings us to the question of taxation and the difficulty the eu has in making decisions in this area. i also appreciate your invitation to a round table. i shall be glad to consider it, taking into account all the invitations a commissioner may receive. as you are no doubt aware, we are preparing a report on the application of the existing block exemption regulation, which is currently attracting a good deal of our attention. we received many replies to the questionnaires we had sent out for consultation purposes. the report, which is due to be published at the end of the year, will not contain any proposals per se but will contain an analysis of the impact of the tax-free distribution system planned for the end of 2000 and a specific analysis of the impact of the block exemptions. it should serve as a basis for subsequent decisions.
- does the commissioner not think that the last two members who have called for action by the commission would do better to ask their party leader, mr blair, to bring the price of the pound down to a realistic level, which is excessively high and has been kept at that level by excessively high interest rates in the united kingdom? would they not do better to encourage mr blair to campaign for the introduction of the euro, with greater transparency as a key element? wouldn 't that be a good way ?
president of the committee on budgets. - mr president, let me begin by thanking the rapporteurs, as they should. that way, if i ever run out of time at the end, it's done. it is always appropriate to say thank you, but this time i really thank mr bourlanges, mr virrankoski and mr colom for the work they have done despite the difficulty of the procedure. i would also like to thank those in this parliament who have contributed to the success of this budget. mr bourlanges mentioned, at our first reading, the staff of the committee on budgets, the long hours they worked, not only in the evenings but also at the weekends, to enable us to function properly. i also thank all the teams of the political groups. including mr westenbroek, who sometimes gets on my nerves, thank you to all of you who have helped us get this far. let us not forget the content of this budget. it specifies how to finance the reconstruction of kosovo, but there are other aspects in this budget that we should be proud of, as mr walter and others have reminded us. the last time we debated the budget, i believe, the council seats were absolutely empty. judging by the number of council members present today, this debate must be very important. if we add the number of members present to the number of commissioners present, we probably get a higher number than the number of members of this house, which means that they expect us to say something. whether it is on our side or on yours, mr president-in-office, i have the impression that they are here to keep an eye on someone. i hear questions, mr president, and i hope they will be answered tomorrow. when we voted in committee yesterday, we adopted a position which i welcome, and i think the vast majority of the committee members do too. let me tell you this: we have no problem. you are. now you're looking at us to embarrass you. i have absolutely nothing against the finnish president. you've been very honest with us. it's the people behind you that have given you a hard time. we know that. quite frankly, we've been in trouble and now we're being asked to get you out of it. let me ask you, mr president-in-office, to clarify a little what you have said. i've requested a special meeting of the committee on budgets for tomorrow at approximately 9:15 after the votes. we shall vote on the colom report and, if necessary, we shall vote on amendments to the bourlanges report. but we need clarification on certain points. i am addressing the commission because the first of the three statements in this text is from the commission. the original text contained the amount of eur 5.5 billion mentioned by mrs buitenweg. the council has withdrawn that amount. i ask the commission to clarify whether we are talking about an amount of 5.5 billion for aid to kosovo and the balkans in the light of the statements by president prodi and commissioner patten. we therefore ask the commission to clarify this. as regards category 4, before i ask for further details, i should like to point out that the president-in-office mentioned aid to areas such as kosovo and east timor. let me remind the council that it has not provided any money for the east timor line - we have. even at second reading, he did not provide any amount - we did. if you had not agreed on the €125 million for morocco - even before we reached an agreement - we probably would not be here. but that's another story. our committee needs clarification on three points for its meeting tomorrow. we've been over this before, but i want to hear you say it here tonight. i've noted what you said. you have indicated in english that the ceiling for title 4 should not be changed permanently. you suggested adding the words "at this time". let me simplify this. were you just talking about the year 2000 or not? when you say that no revision of the category is necessary, are you only talking about the year 2000? that is the first clarification we would like. the second point we are asking for is the €2 billion in payment for compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. would you please tell us whether this is your view or that of the council, and therefore of all the member states? can we be sure that this will not be called into question before our vote tomorrow morning ? thirdly, i would ask you to give us your position in writing for our meeting tomorrow, so that mr colom i naval can make proposals. if these points are clarified, i believe we can find the solution that the council is seeking. let me add one last thing. we must all learn from this situation, and the first lesson the council must learn is that parliament is not here to act as a figurehead.
counsel. - (fr) mr president, mr wynn has asked me three questions, to which i will give a brief answer. he first asked what i meant by my speech today on chapter 4 of the financial framework. i said almost literally that the council did not think it necessary to change it definitively at the moment. i was therefore referring to the 2000 budget, in which the council's compromise proposal includes the use of a flexible instrument for chapter 4. in future, however, the council will examine all commission proposals. the second question by mr wynn concerned the cut of 2 billion in compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure. in this connection, it must be assumed that, according to the council's rules of procedure, the president represents the council's opinion. as president-in-office of the council, i therefore put forward the opinion and give my answer. finally, the document based on the compromise has already been sent to the parliament's secretariat.
- chairman of the committee on budgets. - mr president, points 1 and 3 have been clarified, but i remain perplexed about point 2. i'll ask for clarification on point two tomorrow morning at 9 a.m., if necessary. i am not quite sure what you said about the second point.
- mr president, the treaties give parliament the right to be consulted on the appointment of the members of the court of auditors. the committee on budgetary control held hearings on 22 and 23 november and adopted a favourable opinion on each of the candidates by secret ballot. however, like mrs stauner, i am disappointed that so few women have been appointed. of the eight candidates proposed by the council, only one was a woman. this means that next year there will be two women among the 15 members of the court. that's progress, but it's still not enough. i would therefore ask the member states to put their house in order. i would also like to make a few more general remarks about the court of auditors. each member state shall appoint its member to the court of auditors. this system should be reviewed in the context of enlargement. like the commission and the parliament, the court cannot expand indefinitely. this will be discussed at the igc. but as far as the court is concerned, it is important to put an end to the system of appointment on the basis of nationality once and for all. the court's role is to examine all community revenue and expenditure to ensure that everything has been done in a lawful and regular manner and that financial management has been sound. i do not see why this role should be taken on by members appointed by the member states. this system is completely unsustainable for this institution. the members of the court of auditors should be appointed on the basis of their competence and not on the basis of their nationality. if they are appointed by the member states, they may well remain loyal to their national capital and try to mitigate criticism of their member state. we need a court that is independent of the interests of the member states and is perceived as such. finally, this means that appropriate, competent members should be appointed to the court of auditors. the events of the past year remind us that it is essential that the court should be able to criticise, where necessary, the commission and the member states, which are ultimately responsible for the management of almost 85% of the funds.
- mr president, i would like to make two brief points. first, a request to the commission. i spent some unfortunate years working as a junior civil servant in the tacis programme a few years ago. after trying to get everyone interested, from the local transport authorities in kishinev to the energy ministries in uzbekistan, i found that, as in many other areas of community policy, tacis projects may be trying to do too much, crossing too many geographical boundaries and tackling too many sectors at once. i think we are all aware of the danger of dispersing union aid over very wide areas. i hope that when this regulation comes into force, the many remaining dysfunctions in the regulation which allow for the uninterrupted proliferation of too many small projects will be put to an end and that a real, and in some cases ruthless, concentration of implementation projects will be applied. secondly, the political problem of the partial suspension of the tacis programme, at least in the 2000 budget, and i am addressing the rapporteur here. i am glad to hear that the rapporteur's view is very close to the amendment tabled by the eldr group. while many of us still instinctively doubt that suspension is the best response to the present circumstances, the debate seems to me to be moving in that direction. i would therefore suggest that our speeches on the partial suspension of the tacis programme in the 2000 budget be fully consistent with what was decided in helsinki. in particular, i would say that if we save the budget line for democracy, we should also save the budget line for nuclear safety projects.
- i warmly welcome mr bodrato's report and its very clear presentation. this is an important step towards adapting the regulatory regime to the realities of the global automotive industry. i just want to give you a word of warning. in this global system, europe must negotiate from a position of strength. the market in the united states is moving in the opposite direction to the rest of the world. american consumers love bigger, heavier vehicles that consume more fuel. the european model of lighter and more economical cars is becoming increasingly important in the rest of the world except the united states. we must ensure that global regulation does not undermine the strength of the european market for the kind of vehicles that most consumers want to buy. i would like to take this opportunity to raise another point, namely the global competitive environment in the automobile industry, apart from regulation. the reality of industry today is that every operation - every factory - must be competitive for global long-term investment. in eastern europe, south america and the united states, aid is being given to stimulate local investment. in this context, i would ask mr liikanen in particular to address the uncertainty facing hundreds of people in my constituency working at the bmw-rover plant in longbridge, birmingham, where most of the investment is to produce new small cars for the world market. i am proud to say that this problem concerns me personally, because i started my professional career in the automobile industry 32 years ago in the factory in question. we learned last week that the commission's decision on an aid package to meet the plant's needs for globalisation has been postponed again, and this postponement affects consumer confidence and the future of the plant. i therefore ask you, mr liikanen, to resolve this problem with your colleague, mr monti, as soon as possible. i would also like the commission to set up a fair and prompt mechanism to deal with this kind of problem in the future. as long as we do not have this mechanism, the competitiveness of the european automobile industry on the world stage will be compromised and we will not be able to take full advantage of the system proposed by mr bodrato.
those of us who were in this building before 8:00 this morning realized that a suspicious package was in the courtyard of the louise weiss building. many feared it was a bomb. access to parts of the building was prohibited and members and staff were asked to evacuate one wing of the building to another. i do not know whether this was a friendly attempt by my italian friend mr dell'alba to persuade us to hold our partsession in brussels, or whether it was my british conservative party colleagues who mistook the day of president chirac's visit, or whether it was a christmas present, the belgian chocolate that now sticks to the walls of the building's courtyard. however, whatever the explanation for the presence of this package in the courtyard, there was a great deal of confusion and it was noted that the evacuation procedures of the building were not known. i would ask that a note be distributed to members of the house outlining the normal procedures to be followed in the event of a normal evacuation and that in a case like this screens which are scattered throughout the building can be used to inform members of what is happening.
- mr president, i welcome the commission's communication and the statements made today. macao offers us an opportunity in terms of trade, dialogue and engagement. so it allows us to bring freedom and democracy to the communist dictatorship of the people's republic of china. i also welcome the honourable personal commitment of commissioner patten and the positive results he has achieved in this respect. however, the fact that the union is talking about a shared legal system between europe and macao is putting its credibility to the test. recently, a private business dispute involving the financial interests of the continent's political leaders led to the kidnapping in macau of an innocent chinese-australian businessman, mr. james pang, and his imprisonment on the mainland for seven years on trumped-up charges. since china has refused to establish a court of last resort, macau does not even have a semblance of an independent judicial system, unlike hong kong. today, the news from hong kong is not good. the court of last instance overturned the ruling of a lower court and convicted two young men for defacing a flag during a peaceful protest despite the introduction of the ccpr into the territorial legislation. this is proof that the supposed safeguards of freedom in hong kong are rapidly eroding. let us continue our discussions with china on macao and other issues. however, let us not be deluded: the christmas gift we will be giving to macau next week will not protect the freedoms of the people. in its communication, the commission speaks of a strong relationship in terms of culture and civilization. i hope that the council and the commission will ensure that they do not back down and that they express the full indignation of europe at the continuing violations of human rights and freedoms, which is a major challenge for the next century.
- it was not a procedural motion, but the remark is relevant in the circumstances. i believe that when parliament holds a solemn sitting, it is at the same time making a solemn promise.
- yes, i'm told he'll be arraigned at 3:00.
- the agenda calls for a vote. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the procedure without report (article 158): proposal for a council and commission decision on the conclusion of a protocol adjusting the institutional aspects of the europe agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of hungary, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of austria, the republic of finland and the kingdom of sweden to the european union (9725/1999 - c5-0190/1999 - 1997/0272avc) (com (97) 0272 - c5-0190/1999 - 1997/0272avc)) (commission on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy) (parliament approved the commission proposal)
mr president, the committee on industry has agreed to vote on this subject on the sole condition that the commission comes to the house and gives us explanations of the procedures and certain assurances. i note that the commissioner responsible for this matter, mr busquin, is here. commissioner lamy made us that promise. we shall not vote until the commission has made a statement, because the procedure adopted is strange.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i informed the indu committee on 6 december last, when i presented the results of the research council of 2 december, the ministers gave their agreement to a new supplementary programme for 2003 concerning the petten high-flow reactor in the netherlands. the euratom treaty does not provide for consultation of the parliament, but in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement it has with the european parliament, the council has undertaken to formalise its agreement only after seeking the opinion of the european parliament. this is the procedure followed by the council, in which the commission is not a party. however, in order to keep parliament informed, the commission had taken care to send parliament its proposal at the same time as it had communicated it to the council. i now understand that the urgency of the procedure did not really allow parliament to express itself satisfactorily on the matter. however, the commission, which will be responsible for implementing this programme, can only hope for its formal adoption. the importance of the research reactor in the medical field in recent years should be emphasized. the petten high-flow reactor alone produced 60% of the isotopes needed for cancer diagnosis and therapy in hospitals and other medical centres in europe. more than 6 million diagnoses are made in europe each year as a result of this activity. the community is also carrying out medical research in this reactor, particularly in the development of new therapies for brain cancer. finally, i would like to point out that this programme is financed by only three member states: the netherlands, germany and france, and that it does not rely on community funding. the high-flow reactor also finds significant funding in support of the european pharmaceutical industry. i can therefore only hope, on behalf of the commission, that the european parliament will join the support already given by the council. that said, i am at the disposal of parliament for further discussion on this issue in the future.
the commission is of the opinion that the common position is a pragmatic and effective solution which satisfactorily solves the problems relating to most accidents involving two european parties, namely accidents which take place within the borders of the european union. i should therefore like to briefly present the commission's position on the amendments suggested by parliament's committee on legal affairs and the internal market. that position is the following. firstly, the commission accepts amendments nos 10, 11, 12 and 13 because they will help to clarify the common position. secondly, amendments nos 1, 2, 8 and 9 are the most problematic. the commission is also proposing to extend the directive to cover accidents involving two european parties insured with insurance companies in the european union and occurring in third countries. these accidents are very few and, for reasons which we explained in yesterday's debate, we cannot accept these amendments at this stage and in their present form. however, the commission may be considering the scope of the directive, taking into account the considerations expressed during yesterday's debate. however, any compromise must clearly identify the third countries which may actually be covered by the directive. in addition, any proposed solution must avoid conflicts with the legislation of those third countries. thirdly, the commission considers that amendments nos 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19 undermine the legal certainty of the proposal and will cause damage to the injured parties. the commission cannot therefore accept them. the commission will make every effort to facilitate a compromise in a constructive manner so as to avoid the failure of the directive, which would affect us all and would cause great harm to motorists travelling in the union.
- mr president, i would like to draw your attention to amendment no 13. the german text - mr rothley's original, of course - differs greatly from the english text and, i think, from the french version. in the case of replying to requests, the german text says "unverzüglich", which means "without delay", while the english text says "immediately". this is a significant difference in the way insurance companies are required to respond. i would ask that in amendment no 13 the word 'immediately' be replaced by 'without delay' - i have discussed this with the rapporteur and he agrees with me. mr bolkestein said that the commission accepted amendment no 13, so i think that this clarification is very important and i would ask you to approve it.
mr president, i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. more specifically, the commission can accept amendments nos 1, 4, 9, 11, 17, 25 and 29 in their entirety. we can accept in principle the second part of amendment no 12 on condition that the deadline is 30 june 2002 and amendment no 15 on condition that the dates for banning the use of virgin hcfcs and recycled hcfcs are 2008 and 2010 respectively. we can also accept in principle amendment no 26, provided that the text specifies that reports must be sent to the commission before 31 march each year, and amendment no 27, provided that a reference to the scientific evaluation group in accordance with the montreal protocol is added. similarly, the commission can accept amendment no 32 in principle if the text is reworded to specify that any essential use of a substance prohibited under the montreal protocol must also be approved by the signatory parties to that protocol. the commission can accept amendment no 31 in part and in principle, subject to some rewording to make the text clearer. the commission can accept the first part of amendment no 12 and the part of amendment no 24 which refers to articles 12, 13 and 14. unfortunately, i have to say that the commission cannot accept amendments nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 28, 30 and 34, the reference to articles 6, 7 and 11 in amendment no 24 and the last paragraph of amendment no 31. i am very grateful to parliament.
- thank you, commissioner, and we are very grateful.
- you have just raised a real problem, but as far as the time limits are concerned, the assembly is sovereign. the easiest way to solve this is to put to the vote, first of all, the principle of voting itself.
- the assembly is free to set deadlines and schedules as it wishes.
- we're not going to debate that question. we'll move on to the vote. we have a joint motion for a resolution tabled by five political groups. (parliament adopted the joint resolution) the assembly has made its decision. we will not discuss this matter. (various movements)
- i would first like to ask you to tell me on the basis of which article you wish to table a procedural motion.
- clearly this is not a proper procedural motion. article 51 deals with written declarations. i do not see anything on our agenda today that relates to written statements. joint motion for a resolution tabled by mr oostlander and others, on behalf of the ppe group, mr schori and others, on behalf of the pse group, mr haarder, on behalf of the eldr group, mr schroedter, on behalf of the green group, mr wurtz and others, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, to replace motions for resolutions b5-0315/1999, b5-0320/1999, b5-0321/1999, b5-0322/1999, b5-0324/1999 with a new text. on the osce ((parliament adopts the joint resolution)
- i should like to read out to you article 19: 'the president shall direct, under the conditions laid down in these rules, all the activities of parliament and its bodies. he shall have full power to preside over the proceedings of parliament and to ensure that they are conducted in an orderly manner.'
- mr. zimmerling, i'd like to respond to the point you just raised. first, the groups decide among themselves how seats are to be allocated. the presidency has no comment on the arrangements made for the distribution of seats in the assembly. the location of members in the chamber is determined by the groups. i agree with your first point. but it was very difficult to distinguish between genuine procedural motions and false procedural motions. in that case, i preferred to try to continue the session rather than interrupt it. but you are right, it is difficult to distinguish the members who sit in this chamber. i'm sorry i didn't see you earlier.
- we'll see to it that that changes. the votes are closed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the
- mr president, on behalf of myself and the other members of the labour group, i would like to stress why we voted against today. it had nothing to do with the resolution tabled by mrs jackson in parliament - a resolution which we fully supported. we must bear in mind, however, that although this resolution is for information only, the commission has made it clear that it will take due account of what is contained in it. it stated that it would take this into account even if, according to the current modus vivendi, this resolution could not have any binding impact on its actions. unfortunately, some members of parliament have not grasped the important responsibilities which the commission has entrusted to them and have not acted with common sense, especially with regard to amendment no 4. the latter contains labelling proposals for products derived from animals that have been fed gmos. almost all the livestock in the eu is intended to be fed with such feeds, and this is already the case. as a result, the labelling of most meat products in our stores will have to state that these products are derived from genetically modified organisms. this information is of no benefit to consumers and would only create confusion. it would create an even more confused climate on the question of gmos. i think that, although labour members fully support this resolution, we must take responsibility and recognise the maturity of our position.
in writing. - i believe that consumers have the right to know at all times when gmos are used in products. this applies not only to food eaten by humans but also to food eaten by animals. we therefore need clear labelling at all times.
- explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 1.38 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- madam president, the political groups agree on the main issues under discussion, as do those of us in the committee on women's rights. the beijing+5 conference is of paramount importance and the european union must be well prepared to participate in the most effective way possible if we want this conference to have the desired impact. we owe it to all the women of the european union and indeed - to women all over the world - as a parliament, in view of the commitments made in beijing and beyond. members of parliament must be given very clear assurances and know that they will be taken seriously in the planning of the pre-conference which will precede the new york meeting. as members of parliament, we are a direct democratic link with the citizens of the european union, and the committee on women's rights itself is a direct link with many women's organisations and representatives. as has been said before, the preparations for the seattle conference have given us a good example of how to proceed and i hope we will succeed.
- madam president, i regret more that i disagree with mrs roth-behrendt than she does that she disagrees with mr von wogau. we have already postponed the debate to a later date. commissioner monti will remember that one day in the previous parliament he had to enter the chamber while a debate was already under way, because of transport problems. these problems arise all the time when we meet in strasbourg. it's a good week to raise that point. i would like to express my support for the suggestion that has been made that we should hold this debate when commissioner byrne is present. i mean no disrespect to mr monti, far from it, but commissioner byrne has been the mediator in this terrible conflict from day one. he must be present as we attempt to reach a conclusion on this matter.
- i too think that we should not have this debate in the absence of the commissioner responsible. he's too important for me. we want the debate to take place, we want the commissioner to act, but we want him to act after he has attended the full debate and not on the basis of information which has been passed on to him through various intermediaries. we must postpone this debate until the commissioner arrives.
- alas, mr. whitehead took the words right out of my mouth. i fully agree with him when he says that if a commissioner cannot arrive in time for a meeting using today's modern transport, all our sessions should take place in brussels. (applause) i would like to return, however, to the very important points raised by mr von wogau and also by mr goebbels. the idea that the council may have already taken a decision without consulting parliament is important. i'm not so sure about that. i have with me the conclusions of the council meeting and the presidency. when the commissioner arrives, i would like him to tell us clearly whether the council has really taken a decision on beef labelling. if not, there is no need to debate this issue and ridicule ourselves.
- i support the appeal made by mr von wogau. i would also like to comment on mr goepel's request. he made a very interesting constitutional suggestion that the council representative should speak at the debate on the papayannakis report. i support this idea and hope that the council, which under the finnish presidency has stated that it will be as open, transparent and communicative as possible with parliament, will take this suggestion into account. i understand that the agriculture council not only adopted a position on the resolution on the papayannakis report last night - which was rather anticipated - but also altered the legal basis of the text on which mr papayannakis based his report. we want a full explanation of this, but it is right that it should come from the council, because it is the council that has taken this decision, not the commission, which i think has been a spectator. so please, can we postpone this debate on the french embargo and make sure that the council will speak in the debate on the papayannakis report?
- i think that if we continue on this course and if we continue to table procedural motions, mr byrne will arrive in time to attend the debate. if we have to postpone this debate and discuss another subject, we should have an urgent debate on the question of transport to strasbourg! it is intolerable that commissioners who are unable to be present in this chamber to attend the debate should thus upset the order of this house, especially when the agenda has been altered to suit them, as has already been said. this is not acceptable. and, with all due respect to commissioner monti, he is not in a position to respond to the debate because, for example, when i asked commissioner byrne in the environment committee if it was possible to save too much time with the legal procedures and go straight to a legal injunction, he said it was possible, which was not in the statement that commissioner monti has just read. i want mr byrne to explain to the house what the commission's position is on the injunctions. it's not possible if he's not here. we must postpone the debate - and if it is to take place after the joint discussion on competition policy, that is very good. but we must not wait until 9 p.m. because of the incompetence of those responsible for organizing the travel of the commissioners.
- mr byrne has left the airport - i assume it is strasbourg airport - and is on his way to our building. therefore, in accordance with rule 146, 32 members may set the precise time and date at which this debate must be resumed. i therefore propose that the debate be resumed at 4.45 p.m. today and i would ask 32 members to support my motion. in that case, that should put an end to the problem by 4:45.
- madam president, it is now 18 weeks since the european commission ordered the lifting of the embargo on british beef; 18 weeks in which france and germany have been procrastinating while flouting the law; the commission has been unable to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement, and i am afraid that the commission will not be able to reach a satisfactory agreement on the terms of the agreement. the commission has been working on this for a number of years, and it is a matter of considerable concern to us. the time for hesitation and delay is over. the french government has been shown to have been playing cat and mouse with the commission and the british government and has never intended to lift its embargo on british beef. it must now be held to account. he must answer for his behaviour in the european courts. it is also important that the procedure be swift so that british farmers are compensated not only for the commercial losses in france but also worldwide as a result of the damage to the reputation of our high quality products. let me also speak about prime minister jospin, who has been a blur in this debate. he claims that last october he offered the prime minister, mr blair, to lift the ban on scottish grazing cattle. let me say this to prime minister jospin: british beef is healthy. the european commission declared it sound, as did the scientific steering committee. the committee, chaired by a french scientist, unanimously decided that british beef was healthy and unanimously rejected france's position. it is therefore ridiculous for mr jospin to try to break the european directive and the date-based export regime by introducing his own conditions. mr jospin is the one who is on the stand and it is not for those who break the law to review the regulations. i would also like to ask the commission what action it intends to take in relation to germany. the german government has asked for nothing better than to cling to the french basques in this conflict, the german government arguing the complexity of its federal system to justify delays in lifting the embargo. i would remind the house that the german government was able to impose an embargo on british beef within hours. it is therefore rather unacceptable that it continues to apply this illegal embargo 18 weeks after the adoption of the directive requiring the lifting of the embargo. i come to my final point. i would point out to this house that few socialist members are here today to take part in the debate on a very important matter. it's a shame, you know.
- madam president, this crisis is not just affecting british farmers; it is also affecting french farmers. but above all, it affects the european union. france must make a decision: either it is part of the eu or it is not. if she's a member, she has to follow the rules. british support for the european elections was very timid. turnout was low, as was the case in many other member states. in my opinion, if elections were held today, the turnout would be even lower because of france's refusal to lift the embargo and the fact that the european union is falling into disrepute. the conclusions of the scientific steering committee, chaired by a frenchman, on 1 august last, stated that british beef is as safe as any other beef. i tend to believe that it is even safer, since our standards of hygiene are now the highest in the world. the french food safety agency has not provided any new scientific evidence. i think this is a purely political decision on the part of france but we must now move forward. i'd like a swift legal process. i would like an injunction to be issued, if possible, against france before the legal process is complete. i would like to see some provisional compensation granted. i would also like to see high compensation paid to british farmers when a fine is imposed. british farmers have had enough. british citizens are fed up with france's refusal to lift the embargo. and i am sure that the commission has had enough of it too. it's time for france to abide by the rules.
- madam president, i want to speak today as a member of parliament and not in terms of nationalist rhetoric. i do not personally believe that the unleashing of british passions is as exportable or as healthy as british beef. today i want to look at the decisions that have been taken in the light of the statement made earlier by the commission, a statement to which few speakers have referred so far. the facts are very simple in this case. the decision to lift the embargo followed the united kingdom's strict adherence to the florence agreement. when the french food safety agency questioned this embargo - and i suppose its powers gave it the right to do so - the question was referred to the scientific steering committee which unanimously agreed that british beef was safe. this was very encouraging, as the commissioner said in his statement. but what was the problem, then? with the help of the commissioner - and i pay tribute to him and share his indignation - we have negotiated where many were against it. the memorandum of understanding of 23 november is the result of these negotiations. in our opinion, it was the beginning of the end of this unfortunate conflict. what happened next? the french government decided on 9 december to maintain the embargo, a decision which surprised us all. i would like to say a few words to mr jospin, in a spirit far from nationalism. in my view, the statements he made afterwards have seriously aggravated the conflict. mr jospin signed the memorandum of understanding and therefore accepted the date-based export arrangements in their entirety. now he tells us that he would accept, or would have proposed to accept, beef from certain herds in certain parts of the united kingdom, without regard to the date-based export regime. that is a misinterpretation of the position he knows he must take. he also said that he would rather be crucified by british public opinion than by french public opinion. what a ridiculous statement from a statesman i've always respected. the former french prime minister, mendes-france, said: "government is a choice". you have to make choices. you can't always follow public opinion. mr blair took a risk, and i think he did the right thing, by taking the path of negotiation when others wanted confrontation, crisis, boycotts and embargoes. he was betrayed, i think, by the events that followed, and i personally don't think that's the way to go about it. the other solution, if we want to choose not what is right but what pleases public opinion, is to organise a confrontation between two member states, which threatens the whole institution. we must have the rule of law as a basis, a form of arbitration, so that we can say: "here is the best opinion we can get. everyone shares the same idea. let's follow that principle". if not, we shall return to the rhetoric of one or two members in this debate today. parliament and our continent are certainly not in the days of henry v and joan of arc. we must now find a sensible solution to this situation. in conclusion, i would like to put a direct question to commissioner byrne. we don't want this conflict to drag on in court for years. i don't think that's anybody's will. what interim measures can it therefore propose to allow a temporary lifting of the embargo, pending an amicable solution between the two governments? he has a role to play, that of mediator. i think he's trying to fill it. parliament should support him in his efforts in this regard and should silence those who seek to deepen the gulf between our two countries.
- i very much regret the continuation of the embargo on british beef by france. i have already made it clear in other debates that i expect the european commission to take coercive measures as a matter of urgency. however, i also believe that political representation must be maintained. that is why my snp colleague neil maccormick and i have stayed in this house today instead of going to the corridors to eat. we took the opportunity to draw president chirac's attention to the quality of scottish beef. since the bse crisis began, snp members in this house have been insisting that the situations of scotland and britain should be looked at separately, and that we should consider a gradual recovery of exports for scotland. i challenge the scottish minister for agriculture to support the snp's request, despite london, which i submitted to the french government yesterday and which called on the french authorities to study urgently and in detail the scientific evidence, traceability and labelling situation in scotland. i ask our french colleagues in this house to recommend this attitude to their government.
- this is a procedural motion. i really have to protest. this debate is extremely important. we postponed it so that the commissioner could attend, and now there are other meetings in this house. frankly, this is unacceptable. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam president, would you like to wait until the meeting is over? i would like to make a few comments to the commissioner. i have already criticised you severely on three previous occasions for not having taken a decision. i thought you were showing weakness. i now want to begin by thanking you for finally making a decision and for the position you will take vis-à-vis the french. we know that this is an extremely difficult task. i actually think you've been the victim of a setup, and not just by the french. i also believe that you were used by the british government. i look forward to seeing a swift response to your actions. i would add, for mr whitehead, that i am not only speaking now as a member of this august parliament, but as a farmer. it is particularly important that everyone understands that the crisis has affected all farmers, not just in france but all over europe. i have brought with me today - and i may be arrested for this, i brought them for you, mr byrne - two british steaks. they're from a local butcher and rancher, a neighbor of mine, whose business probably won't be back by the end of the week. i have listened to what mr martinez has to say and i must say that i am very concerned that bse can be transmitted to humans. i would just add this, since you are about to announce a white paper on food safety: whatever people say, food in europe cannot be 100% safe. i just want to point out to mr martinez that more than 20 people died of listeria last year in france - a number greater than that of bse victims. i therefore hope that in matters of food safety you will base yourselves on scientific evidence and not just on the precautionary principle referred to in article 30 (former article 36). i expect your answer later in this debate.
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. it follows on from what mr graefe zu baringdorf said. we note that the council is in its place so that it can answer the questions that will be put to it. can the council give us an assurance that it will be present again at 9 p.m. to take part in the debate on the papayannakis report? we very much appreciate the enormous efforts made by the finnish presidency to work very closely with parliament. we would therefore appreciate it if the presidency could be here at 9 p.m. to explain to us what happened at the agriculture council last night on the subject underlying the papayannakis report. can the council now do this in the name of transparency, which is what finland undoubtedly wants to see in its presidency?
- mr president, i was interested in what mrs jackson said. i had heard that the debate on the second reading of the late payment directive would also take place at 9 p.m. the timetable has become, it is a fact, extremely confusing. many of us have other commitments that we must try to honor tonight. would the president make a final decision on the timing of our proceedings this evening?
- do i understand that you will not or are not able to tell us the schedule for tonight's work?
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. we would ask the finnish presidency - which is here - to be present at 9 p.m. to contribute to the debate on the papayannakis report. the council, and it alone, can explain to us what happened last night at the agriculture council. would you be so kind as to put this question to the council and ask for an answer in the interests of the members of this parliament?
- (fi) mr president, the council is of course fully aware of the need for commitment at the level of the member states in europe, both in terms of improving the employment situation and ensuring the maintenance of social security systems. in this connection, it is important to combat effectively undeclared work, which cancels out or diminishes the effect of our efforts to promote employment. i would also like to point out once again that at the moment the rules of application in the eu member states for the immigration of nationals of candidate countries or third countries are very clearly the responsibility of the authorities set up at national level. similarly, border controls and border police of member states with common borders with third countries are primarily the exclusive competence of the member states.
- does the council agree that the best way to stem the flow of people migrating for economic reasons is to improve the economic conditions in the countries of origin? in other words, if enlargement is successful, if the agenda 2000 programme is effective and succeeds in improving the economic situation in central and eastern european countries, the flow of people migrating for economic reasons from these countries to the current member states of the european union can be reduced.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, in its judgment of 17 june 1998 in case 174/95, the court of justice annulled the council's decision of 6 july 1995 refusing the applicant access to certain documents relating to europol requested in the context of council decision 93/731/ec on public access to council documents. the council reviewed that decision on the basis of the judgment and informed the applicant, in its decision of 30 july 1998, that it could communicate the documents to it, with the exception of one. no further complaint has been lodged against the council and the case can therefore be considered closed. article 255 of the ec treaty requires the council, acting in accordance with a codecision procedure with the european parliament, to lay down the general principles and limits governing access to documents for reasons of public or private interest within two years of the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam. the commission intends to submit its proposal to the council in january 2000, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the ec treaty.
- i am sure the president-in-office of the council has noticed that 5 of the first 16 items on the agenda, including the previous question by mrs frassoni, concern transparency. we represent the citizens, the citizens of europe, and i hope that the council will take note of the desire for transparency within the council. my question is this: is it true that the decision in the council on which documents are to be published and which are to be kept secret is taken by a majority vote of a committee of 15 press officers from the national representation offices ? that's what one of the 15 press officers told me. they're there, not elected, and they decide what gets published and what doesn't. is that true, because i find that very hard to believe.
- (fi) mr president, there is no doubt that these kinds of problems are increasing in the smallest regions. if i may add one thing to my previous answer, i would say that, for air travel, one cause of delay is of course that, under the present system, an aircraft is only allowed to take off if it is certain that it can land at the destination aerodrome. this naturally irritates people who are waiting in the plane or on the tarmac for the plane to take off, but on the other hand, this procedure is more environmentally friendly than allowing planes to take off on time but refusing to land them when they arrive at their destination.
- mr president, i would like to ask the president-in-office a question of a different nature on air traffic control. i understand that they may not have been briefed on this, so if she cannot give me an answer now, perhaps she will be kind enough to give me a written answer which can be passed on to our colleagues. my question concerns the regulation which will soon allow pilots aged 60 to 65 to fly commercial flights throughout europe, with one exception. the only exception is france. this means that, given the extent of french airspace, pilots over 60 will effectively be out of work. will she raise this matter with the council of ministers, will she speak to her french colleagues in particular and answer me, perhaps in writing, later, unless she is able to do so today, and tell me what can be done to protect the jobs of these older pilots?
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the council would remind the honourable member that it has authorised the replacement of directive 91/628/eec on the protection of animals during transport by directive 95/29/ec, which lays down the rules applicable to the transport of animals within the european union, including a time limit for the transport of the various species. the member states also asked the commission to draw up a draft directive limiting the total duration of animal transport to a maximum of eight hours.
- mr president, the minister has answered correctly. the problem is that in the second part of her answer she should tell us what she intends to do to ensure that this is actually implemented. does she agree that treating these animals humanely is a sign of a civilized society? today, in europe, animals are still suffering martyrdom and some die on the way because of the inhumane conditions of transport. too many animals are being transported, piled on top of each other, without enough food and water, unable to turn around, get out and get some exercise during their journey. the minister has rightly said that the transport of live animals should be legally limited to 8 hours in the european union. eight hours should be the limit, according to the guidelines. this is not the case in practice. i would ask the president-in-office of the council to speak to the council, to speak to the commission, and to tell us why this limit has not yet been applied. animals suffer and therefore europe is not yet a civilized society in this respect.
the rapporteur recommends that parliament should take this second reading. it is essentially aimed at prosperity, at job creation within the european union, especially for our smes, because it creates a more favourable business climate for these activities. paradoxically, i would like to see this report not used. in fact, i'd like it to be obsolete very quickly. this kind of directive should improve the climate in our trading sector, allowing us to move from late payment to prompt payment. we are very much in favour of a culture of prompt payment within the european union, our single market, and not of late payment. before we get to the content of our second reading, i would like to say a number of words of thanks. i thank the services of parliament for working so quickly on this report, the commission for its support and the finnish presidency for the polite and cautious advice it has given us during the procedure. i also thank the colleagues on the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy with whom i have worked closely, many of whom are in the house tonight. i am particularly grateful to euapme, which represents the small businesses of the union very well and has given its full support to this proposal. i should also like to thank a ghost of this house, my former colleague and great friend, mr lyndon harrison, rapporteur for the first reading, now lord harrison of chester. it was he who, on 16 september 1998, as rapporteur, told this parliament that 'it is time to outlaw these dishonest practices and to enable smes to enter the european single market with confidence by giving them the assurance of prompt and full payment'. i couldn't have said it better myself. i must say that the council's common position was disappointing to parliament - especially when we know that we are pursuing the same objective. however, given that we are pursuing the same objective and that both sides are showing good will, i am sure that we will eventually succeed in adopting an effective directive. it is worth pointing out, however, that there are important differences between us. for example, the statutory interest rate to be applied in the event of late payment, the length of the period after which interest starts to accrue if the contract has not stipulated a payment period; the retention of title in the event of late payment, the role of the public sector and the treatment of public procurement, and claims for compensation resulting from late payment. all these are very difficult subjects and could cause problems between parliament and the council. i believe, however, that they are an integral part of our objective, that they are generally sound and will enable us to improve the business climate for small and mediumsized enterprises. these will then be able to develop and deploy their full capacities within the single market. shortly after my election to this parliament, mr president, one of my first pleasant tasks was to invite representatives of the dudley chamber of commerce and industry, which was then in my constituency, to the house. they came to a hearing on late payment held in parliament and, pointing out that we have problems with late payment in the single market, gave us very good expert advice. these problems have actually become worse, which is why we are discussing a directive and a proposal tonight. this important directive will enable us to tackle this business climate, to bring about a cultural change which will enable us to move from late payment to prompt payment as the norm within the european single market and not, as is the case today, the other way around. smes in the european union are following very closely our reaction to this proposal and the common position. they hope that tomorrow parliament will strongly support the unanimous vote in the committee on industry on monday. i would like to make a few introductory remarks, mr president, to recommend our position.
- i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr murphy, and the committee on the work they have done in this area. although there are not many of us here tonight, this is a matter of the utmost importance. it is often said that small businesses have little money and have much more cash problems than larger ones. they often have to wait to be paid before paying their suppliers. if payments are delayed, there's a chain reaction. they often depend on one big client. if the employee is late or fails to pay, it can mean a month of lost work, with potentially catastrophic consequences. worse, there's often no repair. in the united kingdom, for example, the creditor has a legal right to demand interest on late payments, but it is almost impossible to enforce this right and legal action is impractical to recover small claims. we need a coercive mechanism. different payment terms within the european union also pose problems - ranging from 30 to 90 days. the 60-day compromise seems like a reasonable deal. i welcome the commission's efforts to speed up trade payments, but the commission is far from being beyond reproach. the ombudsman's report highlighted numerous cases of late payment to commission suppliers. this point was addressed in the communication by commissioner liikanen and another one on deadlines. i welcome the commission's attempt to improve its own procedures to reduce late payment. i wish she'd get her affairs in order. the other day i received a letter from a prominent academic who pointed out that people who submit reports often have to wait months for their expenses to be reimbursed. this is unacceptable. we must ensure that the commission does as well as it expects others to do.
- mr president, this is a procedural motion. although the council representative is not here tonight, may i ask whether the commission or any representative of parliament's secretariat is aware that the news agencies have announced that the council has taken a decision to extend the voluntary regime for 12 months, which is contrary to the codecision procedure and therefore makes this debate and the vote tomorrow unnecessary?
- in the last decades of the 20th century, we have seen a series of food alerts. in many cases, legitimate concerns are overblown when the media are busy feeding panic, sometimes making the facts look good. there are probably not enough journalists with a good scientific knowledge, able to measure subjects such as risk. or, as i suspect, the sensational "some" that increase newspaper sales may be more important than consumer information, information that allows consumers to make their own decisions when they make their purchases. product labelling is an important way of countering this misinformation. it is true that it is possible to go too far and provide technical data which confuses rather than informs. when we look at the details of this directive and others, we will, i hope, bear in mind that a lady dragging her two or three irritable children to the supermarket will not have time to read a detailed label. it must be possible to obtain information at a glance on the origin, the method of production and other details in a simple and clear manner. today, food labels are at best vague; at worst, deliberately misleading. so you can be forgiven for thinking that bacon labelled 'uk-packaged' was produced in the uk according to our strictest health standards, which is not the case. a parmentier hash with the label 'product from the united kingdom' may well contain beef from botswana, zimbabwe or elsewhere in the world. that's not enough. labelling regulations should address these problems. i now turn to the intolerable situation we are currently facing with regard to the extension of the voluntary labelling scheme for beef. what would the union do if it were a company and not a country that chose to ignore the legislation that other companies apply? the law would, of course, be rigorously enforced. at present, 12 out of 15 member states have not introduced the voluntary beef labelling system and are therefore not in a position to switch to the compulsory system in january. the commission criticises the countries for not informing it in time of their inaction to allow the proper democratic procedures to take place. it should have been aware of the situation, however, and i am sure that a few telephone calls would have brought the commission up to speed. today, although the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment of this parliament were invited to examine this extension, the council preferred to ignore parliament and to change the legal basis of this decision, whereas the proposed amendments were practical and reasonable and could have been adopted under the codecision procedure. this is an affront to the members of the european parliament. finally, it is particularly important that consumers know where the beef they consume comes from. in the wake of the bse crisis, we should have made it easy for people to identify the safest beef, which is of course british. i would also ask commissioner byrne to introduce a compensation scheme for british beef farmers who are affected by the french government's illegal action. the cost of this regime will be borne by the french when they lose the case, which is no doubt. british farmers need help now. no promise of compensation will be given to them until some of them have gone bankrupt and nothing can be done for them.
- mr president, we are looking for the second time today at the serious crisis of beef, its safety and its legal circulation within the union. we all think we need the measures that the commission promised in 1997. we need it, especially in the face of the current crisis. the issue of the identification of beef products and the certainty of their safety is as much at the heart of the dispute between france and the european union as it is at the heart of the safety concerns that have been addressed by the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment over the last two years. i would like to thank mr papayannakis for his patience over the last two weeks. we are all concerned about the fact of the day in the council statement. we are holding this debate in a legal vacuum if we do not have the flexibility to amend. regulation 820/97 is slipping through our fingers and becoming a garbage of half-compliant voluntary practices, and the compulsory regime, which all members of this parliament know is necessary, offers no immediate prospects. this is partly due to the inertia of the member states. but the commission also has responsibilities. they're from long before mr. byrne arrived. but now that he has to clean up, we'd like to hear from him how he's going to do it. the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy seek to remedy this by proposing a delay of up to eight months. some of our amendments clarified and strengthened article 152 as the legal basis. today the council is strongly in favour of adding article 37 to the legal base. this is certainly a matter of health and consumer protection. i would like commissioner byrne to tell us that he will defend all that article 152 entailed as soon as it was added to the treaty. the main thing is that it gives us the right to intervene, to be consulted and to participate in the co-decision process. this right, which parliament acquired recently in the wake of amsterdam, has been abruptly taken away from us. that was the heartfelt cry of mr papayannakis during our discussions in the committee on the environment. it is absolutely outrageous that nine-tenths of the members of parliament are absent today, one week before christmas, when we are discussing a regulation which will come into force god knows when or how, with a council which is dismissing us with contempt. i don't think that's enough. i think mr. byrne would agree.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have no comment to make. it was a procedural question with no direct relation to the report itself. we can vote.
- madam president, i would like to say on behalf of my group that we should have voted in protest. we have to vote. we were put in an impossible situation. but this vote must not be recorded as an ordinary vote. this vote was forced on us. this is a protest vote. (applause) i would like to thank
- i'm sorry to delay the proceedings, madam president, but there is another possibility. i understand that the fisheries council is meeting tomorrow and that our opinion on the papayannakis resolution will be submitted to it. well, the fisheries council can very well show good will, take our amendments into consideration and adopt the amended legal text. i propose that we vote on the papayannakis report, that you take your sharpest pen and then write a letter on behalf of the european parliament in which you invite the council to 'take action' not just to adopt yesterday's text but to take account of our amendments today.
president of the committee on budgets. - i didn't think i'd speak, but as you asked, i'm speaking. i would say first of all that i am very relieved to see that we have come to the end of the vote. this year the procedure has been particularly tortuous for all those involved, and in particular for the rapporteurs, mr bourlanges, mr virrankoski and mr colom i naval - because of the agreements with the council. at times, as mr bourlanges said, it was even nerve-racking. now that we have got this over with, i would like to thank the council for the decision it has taken and the commission for its help. for the information of the members, i would say that at the end of the vote the total payments will be 1.11% of the european union's gnp, which is below the ceiling of the financial perspective for 2000 of 1.13% and the own resources ceiling of 1.27%.
- strictly speaking, you're right. in general, we do everything to ensure that members who wish to explain their vote are present in the chamber. so, as long as members are present at the vote, we are flexible in the interpretation of the rules. but strictly speaking, members should be there to hear their names.
- for once, i'm happy to accept it. but i would remind members that, from a technical point of view, they are obliged to be present in the house to be heard. at the end of the votes, i read out the names of the people who asked for a written explanation. members do not have to stay until the end of this list but they must stay until they have heard their names.
, in writing. - mr president, i strongly support the excellent report by my labour colleague, mr simon murphy. it is further evidence of labour's commitment to creating an environment in the european union that is conducive to the prosperity of entrepreneurs and businesses. many viable businesses, especially small ones, are regularly hit by late payments. as a result, many of them, for reasons beyond their control, have gone bankrupt. businessmen are needlessly ruined, jobs are lost, needlessly lost, economic vitality is needlessly weakened. this measure will, however, allow small businesses to take up the fight again. creditors will be empowered to charge a regulatory interest rate, encouraging debtors to pay their bills more quickly. in addition, in the event of non-payment of debts, creditors will also be able to compensate for the costs they have incurred in the recovery of their bad debts. this greater certainty in trading in europe will make small businesses feel better able to trade not only in britain but also in the internal market. membership of the single market, the world's largest trading bloc, is a key element of employment in the north-west of britain. almost 40% of the region's small and medium-sized enterprises have trade relations with other eu member states. their participation in the european single market gives them access to more than 370 million potential consumers - more than six times as many as in britain alone. in a few years, as a result of the enlargement of the european union, they will have access to 500 million potential consumers - as many as the us and japanese markets combined. the labour government is determined to take advantage of the internal market for british businesses. by giving these companies the confidence to tackle these markets, the measure proposed in the murphy recommendation will help them achieve their objective and increase trade, growth and employment in both the north west and the rest of britain.
in writing. - mr president, i am entirely in favour of beef labelling. the reforms in beef production introduced in britain following the mad cow crisis have now made british beef the highest quality, safest beef in the world. i am confident that consumers, not just in britain but across the eu, will admit this in due course and will no longer hesitate to turn to british beef. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of beef products is not restricted to the production of the same product. if this confidence-building measure makes it possible to bring an end more quickly to france's illegal ban on british beef, it is all the more welcome. eu citizens will know a good quality beef when they see it. they will also be able to recognize lawbreaking and hypocrisy. the ban on france, everyone except the french government admits, is illegal and totally unjustified. this ban is also hypocritical and unworthy of a french government that prides itself on being at the heart of europe. hence the dignified march of labour mps at the official opening of the new parliament building last tuesday. meps should not legislate in a country which is in breach of community law. in contrast, i can only commend the restraint and law-abidingness shown by farmers in the north west and throughout britain throughout the crisis. i urge them to continue to do so and to continue to shoulder their responsibilities. i also urge the commission to take swift and simplified action against the french government as soon as possible. i also urge the commission to consider the possibility of compensating british farmers who are suffering. many of them are almost cornered because of this ban. in this connection, i welcome the new proposals made by my socialist colleagues to create in the future a tribunal dealing with minor disputes, in order to help people who are on the verge of ruin because of conflicts in the eu in the future. let us never forget, however, who is ultimately responsible for this crisis. it is the lax regulations of the conservatives that are at the root of this crisis. it was the conservatives who threw themselves into their ridiculous bullfight and led to the escalation of the crisis. and today it is the conservatives who are trying to spread the crisis, irresponsibly pushing the population to carry out illegal reprisals, for their own political advantage. while the conservatives continue to play politics, labour continue to work, in conjunction with the national farmers union (nfu), for the lifting of the british beef embargo.
- voting is closed.
- oral question b5-0038/99 by mrs rothley and others, on book prices in germany and austria.
- mr president, my country, the united kingdom, has had a long political debate on the value of an agreement imposing the resale price of books. the debate ended with the abolition of the agreement on the price of books. there is no evidence in the uk that the abolition of the agreement has resulted in a reduction in choice, an increase in prices or a decline in the number of specialist bookshops. on the contrary, the number of books sold and of publishing houses seems to be increasing. that's a very good thing. i think that's my belief, because i think books are meant to be read. at least that's the conclusion i came to when i studied english literature at university. under the principle of subsidiarity, any member state is free to impose a fixed resale price on books if it so wishes. similarly, if two or more member states wish to create an internal fixed resale price area, they should do so. but they must not lose sight of compatibility with the rules of the single market. such a regulatory system cannot influence the price of books sold outside the jurisdiction of the member state concerned. nor can he influence the books brought or re-introduced into his territory. this new sales channel, which is developing alongside e-commerce, is becoming more widespread and popular. it fully respects the principles of the single market and offers enormous opportunities for small specialised businesses. the idea of imposing a fixed resale price is intolerant and runs counter to the principles of the single market. i even equate it with a concrete form of censorship and an artificial rationing of the supply of books in favour of the more privileged. i believe that this is also detrimental to the legitimate and lawful trade in the community and threatens to level down literary trade in europe, to relegate literature to the level of pornographic magazines distributed - if my information is correct - in letter boxes in unmarked kraft paper envelopes and to reduce the legitimate trade in books in the free world to the fraudulent introduction and passage of so-called corrupt literature from eastern europe. one thing is certain, i am against this principle, because i think it is old-fashioned, intolerant, reactionary and, in the long run, philistine.
commission. - (it) mr president, i thank all the participants in this debate, which i found politically and culturally interesting. i would like to assure the participants in the debate that the commission and i share their interest in culture and the book, that we recognize the cultural importance of the book and that we are prepared to take account of these specific features. mr karas recalled that i had already stated that i wanted competition policy to be included in the soziale marktwirtschaft (social market economy). i confirm this and ask you all not to regard competition as something abstract and harmful to citizens. competition is the citizen's main ally. the essential purpose of competition is to safeguard the interests of consumers in terms of price and quality and to protect small and mediumsized enterprises against the excesses of large enterprises. i am therefore prepared to acknowledge the importance of culture, but i would ask you not to fall into the intellectual trap of thinking that competition is not in the interests of citizens. the task of competition is to combat cartels, abuse of dominant positions and mergers, to create greater areas of economic freedom, but we know that economic freedom often goes hand in hand with civil freedom, as the past experience of countries where economic freedom did not exist shows. i therefore believe that it is possible to create a harmonious culture policy and a competition policy without raising artificial and sterile antagonisms.
- the debate is closed. motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 40 (5) of the rules of procedure: see minutes. the vote will take place tonight. (the sitting was suspended at 12.35 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- i'd like to start on a positive note. i think we have to accept that there is a new democratically elected government in indonesia and that for the first time in 40 years the country has a civil defence minister. therefore, as an international community, we must seek to support this democratic indonesian government. however, we must remain vigilant as we award the sakharov prize to mr gusmão. we must bear in mind that despite the presence of a civil defence minister in indonesia, this ministry remains highly militarized. it is clear that we would like a greater democratization of the ministry of defence in indonesia. we must also recognize that the armed forces continue to oppress people who express a desire for autonomy in certain parts of the country. as long as the indonesian military continues to persecute, we cannot provide support or send a message of support. we also know that the indonesian military in west timor has not yet disarmed or dismantled the militias. they continue to terrorize some 200,000 east timorese refugees trapped in west timor. they are hampering the efforts of the united nations to repatriate them. we want to see these militias disarmed and dismantled as soon as possible. we also know that the indonesian military refuses to cooperate with the un international commission of inquiry set up to investigate crimes against humanity in east timor. we want them to cooperate fully with the united nations. for this reason, the eu must extend its arms embargo, which was imposed four months ago, to arms sales. if we do not, the signal we would give the military would be clear: they would interpret it as acceptance and rehabilitation. as i have just said, this is far from the case. i admit there are good reasons to believe that indonesia will turn to other countries for arms, russia or china for example. nevertheless, it is important that we make clear our desire for military reform in the country. we want greater civil and democratic control and greater respect for human rights in indonesia. this is not yet the case. it is not yet time to lift the arms embargo.
- i have tabled this resolution on behalf of the edlr group because i believe that the eu arms embargo should be maintained after 17 january, or even extended. it would be absolutely unacceptable to raise it. the failure of the army to disarm and dismantle the militia is deplorable. the army terrorized between one hundred and two hundred thousand people who had come to west timor seeking refuge. it does not allow aid workers into the camps. one of them laments the death of 160 people. 90% were children under five years old. as has been said before me, the military refuses to cooperate with the un international commission of inquiry into crimes against humanity and commits crimes and atrocities in aceh and west papua. one of the last cases i heard about was a young man who was beaten up by the police and the army as he was going to visit his mother. they spit on him, they questioned him, they threw him down, they kicked him. then they sprayed him with kerosene and burned him alive. it happened in northern aceh. this kind of extortion is not over. the indonesian military and police continue to commit these atrocities. the lifting of the embargo would send the wrong signal. i have also just heard about a report by the australian secret service. some eu member states initially refused the ban. some eu member states have benefited financially at the expense of human rights, and i do not believe that this attitude is acceptable. as long as the indonesian army continues to commit acts of repression, the embargo must be maintained.
- the situation in sierra leone is still unstable. the peace agreement brought some improvements, but these were limited to a tiny part of the united revolutionary front (ruf) hierarchy. as soon as the rainy season ended, the campaigns of violence and terror against the civilian population resumed. to improve the situation, we need to change the quality of government. sierra leone was a country with an excellent educational system and a very law-abiding society. it is ruined by international money laundering: it is easier to trade diamonds on the international market than silver. but the poor people respect education and humanitarian values and also respect democracy. a general election is scheduled to take place soon. we must support this democratic leap forward. the people deserve to vote. i call on the european parliament and the european commission to release funds immediately for education, fundamental rights and democracy.
- mr president, the state of kuwait today offers many opportunities for competent women. ms rasha al-sabah, the long-serving under-secretary for higher education, was joined by ms fayezah al-khorafi, president of kuwait university; his excellency nabila al-mulla, ambassador of the state of kuwait to austria; siham ruzuqi, assistant undersecretary in the ministry of petroleum; sarah duwaisan, another assistant undersecretary in the ministry of planning; in the civil society, shaikha hussah al-salim al-mubarek al-sabah is the chairperson of the islamic museum of kuwait dar al-athar al-islamiya. it is therefore not surprising that, in view of this record, his highness the prince of the state of kuwait issued an official decree on 16 may 1999 giving kuwaiti women the right to vote and stand for election to the parliament. but it was parliament that rejected the text. despite this, the kuwaiti parliament is different from other parliaments in the arabian peninsula. the 50 members of the european parliament are directly elected; they are neither named nor designated, as is the case in other states of the peninsula. members of parliament may question ministers at any time in parliament. debates can become so violent that ministers resign. similarly, the parliament controls the government's annual budget. i believe that a new vote will take place soon, perhaps in the next two or three months, since this is a democratically elected parliament. universal suffrage in a democracy cannot fail. as a member of parliament, i ask my colleagues in the house and in national parliaments to urge our kuwaiti colleagues to give women the right to vote and stand for election. it would be a historic breakthrough which i believe no one would regret.
- mr president, whenever we hear here in the chamber of the european parliament that fundamental human rights are being trampled upon, such as the right to vote or to stand for election, this must be an opportunity for us to consolidate our determination to promote and strengthen democracy throughout the world. so despite the deep disappointment caused by the decision of the kuwaiti national assembly to deny this fundamental right to kuwaiti women in its vote on 30 november, all hope for the future is not lost. the narrow margin of the november vote has strengthened the conviction of the men and women working for this change in legislation. they have pledged not to abandon their campaign. they set the goal of the 2003 general and municipal elections to get women in kuwait to vote for the first time. they will submit a bill to the general assembly every year to defend women's rights until their demand is met. while we condemn the decision of the kuwaiti national assembly on 30 november, it is equally important that we use our position as elected mps to encourage and support those who are in favour of change. after all, not so long ago it was women in many european union countries who were campaigning and protesting. it was only after many years of struggle that they were granted the right to vote and stand for election. that's what made the difference. in the united kingdom, for example, the suffragette movement was founded in 1860. and it wasn't until 1918 that some women - not all - got the right to vote. this right was not extended to all british women until 1928. so we have already seen these campaigns in other countries. a review of the international situation shows that in 1990 virtually all governments which granted the right to vote to men also granted it to women. kuwait was the only country to restrict the extension of the right to vote to men. although it is difficult for most of us to even understand this type of system, we have a responsibility to the people who work there and we must help them as best we can.
- i rise to speak about the situation of women in afghanistan. as we approach christmas, here is an opportunity, amidst the abundant evidence of human rights violations around the world, for muslims and christians to join forces to fight the forces of evil. both islam and christianity respect the rights of women. the violation of these rights in afghanistan, which has been going on for so long now, goes against the morality of islam. no decent muslim in the world supports the savage treatment of afghan women by afghan sadists and torturers. it is an unimaginable situation, but we can join hands, join forces against the taliban society and free these poor women. why did we back off? i'm ashamed of this retreat. i beg the whole world, muslims, christians, jews. we have to intervene in afghanistan. there can be no more delay in the new millennium: free these poor women now !
- mr president, i share the sentiments of the two previous speakers and i welcome with equal warmth this resolution, whose clear objective is to condemn the appalling human rights conduct of the taliban regime in afghanistan, and in particular the persecution of afghan women in the name of religion and culture. women have borne the brunt of the terrible years of war that have devastated the country. their rights have been violated on numerous occasions: rape, sexual violence, forced marriage and prostitution. the intimidation of women has been used as a means of dishonoring and dehumanizing entire communities. since the taliban came to power in 1996, the plight of afghan women has worsened. a barbaric social code has been imposed, based on the intimidation, humiliation and coercion of the female population, from whom all fundamental rights have been taken away. for these women, freedom of expression, the right to work, the right to health and family planning, access to education, all these things that seem natural to us, do not exist. however, the european council did not take action against the taliban until 15 october this year, imposing an air embargo and freezing funds to the regime. it was not because of the regime's apartheid policies against women, but because the taliban protected mr. bin laden. i believe, however, that this action must be continued until this unacceptable discrimination against afghans comes to an end. the first speaker rightly said that this resolution could play a role in the process. it might be a small part. but one thing is certain: however small our role may be, we have a responsibility as the european parliament to put an end to the taliban regime and its inhumane policies in afghanistan.
- mr president, djibouti has a population of half a million people divided between two muslim tribes, the issas and the afars. djibouti's national advantages are its port and strategic position in the horn of africa. the western powers, including france, exploited this strategic position. ethiopia uses its port. trapped by the conflict between the afars and the issas, by the problems of the neighbouring countries and by the desires and policies of the countries that dominate its strategic position, the country is stuck in a situation of poverty and lack of democracy. the djiboutian leader is now doing things that we absolutely abhor. the leader of the afars has been imprisoned without trial with his followers and lives in abominable conditions. he's going blind. the existence of such situations today in djibouti must be a strong incentive for us to review our policy, because djibouti is a signatory to the lomé convention, it receives european aid, and one of our member states, france, enjoys a very important strategic position and exerts considerable influence on the country. this kind of dictatorship, this kind of terrorism against the civilian population, and the wasteful depletion of resources in the unnecessary purchase of weapons for a country of this size are totally unacceptable. djibouti should be the singapore and hong kong of the african continent. this country should really be prosperous. i therefore hope that you will all support this resolution condemning the appalling conditions of detention of prisoners and civilians in djibouti.
commission. - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on human rights shows once again the need to remain vigilant in the face of these questions. all the cases we have discussed this afternoon are cases of fundamental violations of human rights. in the case of the death penalty in the united states and yemen, it is a matter of the fundamental right to life. in the case of discrimination against women in kuwait and afghanistan, it is the right to civic equality. in the case of djibouti, it is the right to freedom of opinion, to freedom of political action. in the case of nicaragua - on this point i have a different opinion from those who have spoken here - it is very clearly a question of the rule of law as such and the fact that in a rule of law one must be protected from arbitrary acts of the supreme power of the state. in view of the short time i have left, i would simply like to make a few further remarks on behalf of the commission. as regards the death penalty, we all agree that it is not compatible with our european standards. she must be condemned most severely. the execution of the death penalty is an inhuman act, which should have no place in a civilized society. so we know how to react when death sentences are pronounced or even executed in some countries. in each case we must consider what we can do to prevent the death penalty from actually being introduced or carried out if possible. this also applies to the cases discussed here. the european union has set clear procedural rules for cases where the minimum standards are not yet met. the european union must intervene where necessary. i would like to mention two of these minimum standards, namely the death penalty for persons who were under 18 years old at the time of the offences and for the mentally handicapped. on the subject of women in kuwait, let me say quickly that the commission, like the members of the european parliament, is very disappointed with the result of the vote in kuwait on 30 november. it should be added, however, as has already been said here, that kuwait, with its directly elected parliament, remains one of the most democratic countries in the gulf region. but that does not change the fact that this vote is in contradiction with the un agreement to eliminate all forms of discrimination, and it is also in contradiction with the international covenant on civil and political rights. kuwait has signed both pacts. the commission is very concerned that kuwait is not complying with this internationally ratified agreement. it must be said that the development is particularly appalling given that the emir of kuwait, the head of state, proposed in a courageous decision - which was also welcomed by the eu - to grant women the right to vote passively and actively. this is therefore an unusual situation where an authoritarian head of state is more progressive than the direct representation of the people. the european union will do everything in its power to make this progress in kuwait a reality. our position on afghanistan has been very clear for a long time. the european union gave its opinion on afghanistan in a common position on 25 january 1999 and thus stated in a clear and unequivocal manner that we demand respect for human rights in afghanistan and in particular defend the rights of afghan women. this common position was conveyed to all political groups in afghanistan. the european union has consistently reiterated its rejection of the gender-based politics of the taliban movement. it goes without saying that the most unfortunate aspect of the taliban regime is the way women are treated. not only is the female population as a whole deprived of access to education, but women are also deprived of the right to work independently. in all our contacts with the taliban - which are very limited, as you know - we have never let it be known that we condemn this attitude. it will be the same in the future. the commission is following with great attention and concern the human rights situation in djibouti. it must be noted that the fundamental freedoms of those opposed to the current regime in djibouti are still being violated. the commission will continue to do its utmost with the djiboutian authorities to ensure that the fundamental rights of detainees are respected. in our contacts with the authorities of the country, we have always expressed our views on the respect of fundamental human freedoms. respect for human rights is an essential component of our cooperation with djibouti, namely within the framework of the lomé convention. the government of djibouti must know that there are consequences for its human rights violations as a signatory to the lomé convention. the cooperation between the european union and djibouti cannot be left intact. we will therefore support all initiatives aimed at bringing the government of djibouti to a position consistent with respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. my last point concerns nicaragua. the commission has followed with great concern the events leading to the arrest and imprisonment of the nicaraguan comptroller general, mr jarquín. we have joined the initiative of the european union troika of 18 november. i would like to make it clear, in connection with the discussion that has taken place here and of which i obviously understand the political context, that even if the actions of the comptroller general must have been motivated by political concerns, this can in no way be a reason to throw him in prison. there should be a consensus on this for the time being. the concern is that the supreme power of the country is responding to a political dispute - whether it is justified or not, i am not interested - by throwing the supreme controller of the country in prison. the commission believes that the european parliament should not remain silent on this. i would point out that the european union has been providing non-repayable aid to central america in general and nicaragua in particular for years. building on the reorganisation of eu-central america cooperation at the 1996 san josé conference in florence, on the one hand, and on the 1999 action plan for eu-nicaragua cooperation, on the other, the european union is focusing first on strengthening the rule of law and supporting a fair social policy in its development cooperation with nicaragua. for this cooperation to have full effect and for the objectives to be achieved, common values must be agreed in accordance with the democratic rules of the game, including respect for independent institutions, as provided for in the constitution. the commission is hopeful that the nicaraguan authorities will take account of these considerations expressed by the european union and other members of the international community, and will reverse the measures taken against the office of the comptroller general and against the person concerned. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you very much, commissioner. this concludes the debate on human rights. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- doc. b5-0337/1999 by mr wuori and others, on behalf of the green group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing the permanent international criminal court; - b5-0344/1999 by mr sauquillo pérez del arco, on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing the permanent international criminal court; - b5-0349/1999 by mr malmström and others, on behalf of the eldr group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing the permanent international criminal court; - b5-0373/1999 by mr oostlander and mr grossetête, on behalf of the ppe/de group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing the permanent international criminal court; - b5-0386/99 by mr puerta and mr di lello finuoli, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the ratification of the treaty of rome establishing the permanent international criminal court.
commission - (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission unequivocally supports the objectives of the resolution we are discussing and considers the european parliament's initiative useful and necessary because we too believe that more significant progress is needed for the international criminal court to finally become a reality. the commission welcomes the fact that an increasing number of contracting parties have signed the statutes agreed in rome and that at least some of them have ratified them. to be fair, it should be noted that for some signatory states and among them some member states, the constitution prohibits, in a large number of cases, the surrender of its own nationals. this is why amendments to the constitution are necessary before ratifying this agreement - as is the case in germany - and this is the reason for the delays. i am quite prepared, mrs thors, to make the applicant countries understand the need for signature and ratification. however, i think mr posselt was right and my position will be more credible when the fifteen have decided on ratification. the ratification and correct application of the rome statute in national law is an important duty. the eu is aware of the complexity of the issues involved. i have already referred to the constitutional problems and we are ready to share our experience of ratification and our expertise with the states concerned. eu member states have already offered technical and financial assistance to other states for the ratification of the statutes and will continue to do so in the future. in addition, the eu member states and the european commission have taken and supported a number of additional initiatives to ratify the statutes. we also appreciate the important contributions made by non-governmental organisations dedicated to raising awareness of the rome statute and its forthcoming ratification. the member states of the european union and the european commission have also demonstrated their commitment to the promotion of international criminal justice by closely cooperating with and providing substantial support to the tribunals responsible for prosecuting war criminals in rwanda and the former yugoslavia. we reaffirm our willingness to consider how we can contribute to the future work of the permanent international criminal court through cooperation by offering our assistance and support in all areas. the commission shares the views expressed in this debate that this criminal court will in no way have a purely symbolic meaning. on the contrary, it will have a direct preventive effect and will help to ensure that in the future the most horrific crimes may not be committed. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you for your statement, commissioner. the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
- the following motions for resolutions are requested for joint debate: france - b5-0334/99 by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the deadly floods in southern france on 12 and 13 november 1999; - b5-0338/1999 by mr pasqua and others, on behalf of the uen group, on the catastrophic floods in southern france; - b5-0345/1999 by mrs berès, on behalf of the pse group, on the floods in the far south of france in november 1999; - b5-0374/1999 by mrs de veyrac, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the floods in south-west france; - b5-0387/1999 by mrs ainardi, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, on the seriousness of the floods in south-west france. b5-0376/99, by mr rovsing and others, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, on the extensive damage caused by the storm in denmark, germany, the united kingdom and sweden. b5-0336/99, by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the green group in the european parliament, on the floods in vietnam.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. (the sitting was suspended at 5.10 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.)
- mr president, i do not intend to delay the work of the house unnecessarily. i do not want to get into a debate on the amendments, since this can be settled by a vote. one thing must be said, however. the process is not ideal, mrs doyle and other members are right, but the problem we have in the committee on transport and regional policy, which is the committee responsible, is that the council asked us for urgency at the last minute because someone, somewhere, realised that our house needed to pass a resolution in order for the fund in question to continue to operate. the only way to proceed was therefore to follow this very rapid procedure by letter from the president through the committee. we thought it was understood that there would be no amendments. unfortunately, that was not the case. it must be stressed, however, that given the time available to us, the commission and parliament worked as quickly and efficiently as possible in circumstances which proved difficult so that the money for this very important fund could be released next year.
in writing. - the amendments are inadmissible for the following reasons: the objectives of the fund do not include the promotion of large-scale inward investment. the fund exists to promote rural and urban development and community development, to develop skills and to improve the environment; the arguments put forward by the green amendments are fallacious. the fund does not play, nor could it have played, any role in the raytheon project. the amendments are simply to prevent the fund from doing something it could not do anyway. the proposed regulation aims to allow for the continuation of the eu financial contribution to the fund; the court of justice has held that the commission's intention to adopt the contested regulation is not to alter the substance of regulation (ec) no 2614/97, which was the reason for the adoption of the emergency procedure. as to substance, the projects cited in the greens' arguments are not military projects.
