i declare resumed the session adjourned on 7 may 1999 and open the sitting provided for in article 10 (3) of the act electing the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage and in article 10 (3) of parliament's rules of procedure. mr crowley has asked for the floor on a point of order.
mr. crowley, your protest will certainly be noted. i wish to express my personal and most profound regret for what has happened. i can only convey the assurance given to me at this time that the services will make the necessary technical adjustments you have requested in time for the september partsession. i am sure that the president-elect will personally see to it that this commitment and this deadline are respected.
i have to inform you that, pursuant to rule 12 (1) of the rules of procedure, the duties of dean for age are to be performed by mr mário soares. however, he considered it appropriate not to exercise these functions as he was a candidate for the presidency of the parliament. it is therefore up to the person who is speaking to you. i shall say only a few words, ladies and gentlemen. it is not the first time that i have been president of a parliamentary assembly, but it is the first time that i have been president of a dean, even though i am replacing a distinguished, older colleague, and i do not hide any embarrassment. i am very pleased, however, to have this opportunity to extend a warm welcome to each of you in this house, of which i have already had the honour of being a member for some years. i have been a member of the national parliament in my own country, italy, for many years. i believe deeply in the parliamentary institution and i am particularly convinced that the democratic legitimacy of the whole process of european integration rests on this parliament, on the full recognition of its role and also on its capacity to cooperate with the national parliaments. we know that our parliament has won greater powers and must win more. we must now make a decisive contribution to the reform of the union's institutions and to the building of a genuine european democracy. this is the task which unites us across the important political differences which characterize us and which will certainly be expressed in heated debates. in this hemicycle, in this new beautiful home of ours, there will be dialectics, there will be competition, but we will never forget the cause to which great figures in european life devoted themselves: i am sure that you will allow me to quote for all of them, having personally learned a great deal from him and remembering well his battles for ten years in this hemicycle, the dear name of altiero spinelli. (applause from the centre) the common cause, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of difficult and demanding challenges, is to build a more united, wider and stronger europe to guarantee peace, freedom and justice throughout the continent. good work for the fifth term! i would remind you that, under the rules of procedure, no debate may take place under the chairmanship of the senior dean unless its subject is strictly procedural, such as the election of the president or the verification of credentials.
mr president, i would like to ask for the floor to refer to the rules of procedure, for the future of course. article 14 (2) reminds us that only the president-elect can deliver an inaugural address.
i appreciate the clarification, but you don't know how long mine would have lasted if it had been a lecture! (applause) i would like to thank
i can confirm on behalf of parliament's services that this has been done. the composition of parliament verification of credentials constitutions of political groups agenda: see minutes of the hearing.
we shall proceed this morning, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to the election of the president. under rule 13 of the rules of procedure, candidates for the office of president of the european parliament must be nominated, with the consent of the persons concerned, by a political group or by at least 32 members. in accordance with rule 14 of the rules of procedure, the following candidates have been nominated for the presidency of the european parliament: the gue/ngl group subsequently announced that it was withdrawing the nomination of mr gonzález álvarez. mr wurtz has asked to speak on this subject.
i would ask you to stick to the communication on the withdrawal of mr gonzález álvarez's candidacy, without making any political considerations about the question of the election of the president. (applause) i would like to thank
i am sorry, mr wurtz, but i have to take you off the floor. everything is political: we will be able to discuss political issues for five years, but not now. (applause) i would like to thank the commission has therefore decided to postpone the application of the new rules until 31 december. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament's opinion is not distorted. i would remind you that under rule 14 of the rules of procedure, a candidate must obtain an absolute majority of the votes cast in the first three ballots in order to be elected. blank or blank ballots shall not be counted in the counting of votes. i now proceed to the drawing of the six electors. (the president declared the electors' names to be drawn by lot)
the following members were appointed as members of the committee: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i declare the vote closed. i call on the voters to proceed with the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. to allow tables to be opened and resumed at 12.20 a.m.)
i'm announcing the results of the presidential election. number of voters: 615blank or blank sheets: 60 of which 5 are addressed to mr soares, on a separate bulletin than the official bulletin votes cast in accordance with the first paragraph of article 136 of the rules of procedure: 555the required majority is 278 votes. they got: mr fontaine, i have to ask you this. mr soares: i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. 200 votes against 49 votes mr fontaine obtained an absolute majority of the votes cast and was therefore elected president of parliament. i congratulate mr fontaine on his election. i wish you all the best in your term of office and invite you to take up the presidency. (applause from the centre)
madam president, the national alliance knows that you will lead this parliament in the spirit of democracy and balance that we have already experienced in the past legislature. his strong commitment to a free and politically united europe, his respect for democratic institutions, his belief in a parliament which finally has a strong, conscious and transparent relationship with the commission, give us hope for years in which the consociativism of the past will finally be a thing of the past and a real collaboration between all the groups in this parliament will begin. this europe is entering the legislature at a time of great difficulty because of what is happening at our borders: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a strong, kind and capable, balanced and just presidency, as you have already shown you can exercise, gives us hope and confidence to work together, all together, to meet the needs of those european citizens who still expect from us a clear answer about their future.
(fr) madam president, i would simply like to react to the intervention of mr barón crespo. we are speaking here of the minutes. when you made the announcement yesterday, no reaction was registered. i believe that the conference of presidents will subsequently receive a document concerning the constitution of this group. we have taken note of this, but i do not believe that it was mentioned yesterday during the discussion. i therefore think that the two things are different. on the one hand, there is the possible response and, on the other hand, a reflection of what was said yesterday in the plenary session. it does not seem to me – and there are witnesses – that any objection was expressed at that time.
mr president, the presidencies of the council of the european union are not a separate event, isolated from the chronological context of previous events. the german presidency was set in the context of the british administration and the creation of the single currency. it is therefore impossible to assess the presidency which has just expired without taking account of the low profile of the one that preceded it and the hopes raised by the birth of the euro, which then fell into nothing and remained on paper. the treaty of amsterdam had not solved a problem of the functioning of the institutions and in the field of foreign policy the only step forward had been to appoint mr cushnahan, who, however, was not yet in office during the kosovo crisis which, without waiting for delays and the continuing absence of europe, erupted like a plague and renewed the crimes of ethnic cleansing which had already plagued bosnia. the german presidency therefore found itself without the appropriate instruments at its disposal and the atlantic alliance was the only suitable support to counter milosevic's policy. the weight of the union, despite the ambiguous movements of some governments, was irrelevant for military action and europe was not perceived as having an independent will, even in respect of alliances. has progress been made with the cologne european council? perhaps, in terms of stated intentions, yes, but it seems to us that everything is still very nebulous before we can say by what date the union will be able to be an autonomous political entity with its own foreign and security policy. the responsibility of governments for the delay in the implementation of political union is enormous and we do not see any change in the pace of the german presidency. the only merit can be that we have at least put the question of common defence on the agenda for cologne. another issue on which the german presidency has not made any progress is that of employment. after having flagged at every opportunity during the german election campaign that with the socialists coming to power everything would change and a virtuous path would be started which would create many jobs, reversing the negative trend that europe has been experiencing for at least a decade, no initiative has been taken in this direction and no proposal has been discussed for the development of the european economy. without a concerted economic policy aimed at development, it will be difficult to combat unemployment and create the conditions which can halt the decline of the euro. if the german presidency did not do so, how can the finnish presidency do so today? and how can we seriously tackle unemployment as we get closer and closer to the date of enlargement? community policy, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union, economic and monetary union these are the priorities which no presidency can ignore. but these are problems that the presidencies talk about, pass by and do not implement, and the european union is languishing and the citizens continue to ask us for fewer words and a few facts.
the council. before i embark on a trip to turkey, let me briefly touch on what has been said here. i would like to thank all those who have praised us and supported us and to respond to some of the criticisms. we have never promised - and it would be out of this world - that in this six months we would have been able to solve all the problems in the european union that i had long wanted to see solved. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european company law is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i am glad that this has been achieved. i see this as an important step forward. but here the critics got a lot wrong, and sometimes the logic got in the way. the pds colleague who criticised us for ignoring the french situation and the aims of french policy, but also strongly criticised the lack of results in the agricultural market compromise at the berlin summit, i can only say, madam president, that these are somehow interrelated and you should take a closer look at this, so that you do not end up in a tangle of contradictions with yourself. i am sure that in the coming weeks and months you will see that there is a very close link here. i would like to say to those - and this is an important point - who are talking about the militarization of the european union, that you are living in your illusions. this would mean that europe would not be able to determine its own destiny, that is to say, to follow its own path in the field of security and foreign policy. i have experienced in the kosovo war what it means to put europe on the scale, also in terms of what political options there are, what possibilities there are for pursuing a preventive foreign policy, a preventive peace policy, for pursuing a solution to a conflict when the conflict has escalated. i can only say that this europe must come together, also in security and foreign policy, otherwise decisions will be taken elsewhere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in reality, however, these decisions are made under very different conditions and in very different places. this is precisely what i do not want and i think this is a wrong development. (applause from the centre) with the euro, we have - and we should not hide - different views of europe. yes, there are, obviously. i am a firm integrationist, and i want a europe which is capable of taking political action, because i am convinced of two things: there is no other way. the first reason is that in the age of globalisation, the european nation state, what we value and want to preserve in the european nation state, can only be preserved if this europe is united, because the scale of the classical european nation state, in the conditions of globalisation, will only be able to guarantee peace, security, prosperity and democracy for its citizens if it is european in character, so that we have a european subject, a european union capable of action. the second reason is that the kosovo war has made this clear again, and perhaps the different historical experiences play a role here, particularly in central europe, there is only one security on this continent: we cannot allow nationalism, racism, and a crude form of fascism, to exist on this continent. since 1992, everything has been done to persuade milosevic to abandon this policy. i have lived through the final phase of the war from rambouillet to the beginning of the military action, and i have not met anyone on the western side, including the united states, who has acted as a warmonger, but there has been a struggle for compromise until the proverbial last second. the only one who did not want to compromise was milosevic, the government in belgrade. i myself have personally witnessed a two-and-a-half-hour discussion with milosevic - an hour of it in private. should we have just sat back? should we have said that we would like to help but we cannot help, that it is against our pacifist principles, that we have no un security council resolution? the un is now stronger after this conflict, and this is one of the effects of europe's role in this conflict. the security council is stronger today than it was in bosnia when it emerged from the conflict weakened. i think we should recognize... (applause) ..... that this is the result of the joint efforts of the european member states, of the european union. we must not forget that. i'll tell you, i was in bosnia, i saw the mass graves, and i'll never forget it for the rest of my life. it is our duty to complete the process of european integration peace, security, democracy for all on this continent. this requires our determination to oppose those who think that if nothing else helps, they can impose the policy of nationalism by force, murder, terror, expulsion, by the last resort, namely, if necessary, by military means. this europe of integration must not allow nationalism. (applause from the centre) this is the most important point, although it was not foreseen in our presidency of the council, because it says a great deal about the future of the european union. i am firmly convinced that this must be accompanied by progress in integration at home and, above all, by further democratization here. it will be a very complex, complicated debate, but we will have to start this debate, which in france is defined by the notion of finality of the european union, and it will take a long time. where are the external borders of the european union, what is the constitutional structure, the relationship between the european union and the member states, the relationship between the institutions, what role will parliament play in the future, how can its rights be strengthened? all these are questions which will be directly linked to enlargement, because it is already clear how difficult it is for the union of fifteen to do so. in the event of enlargement, the question of capacity for action will be raised immediately. the next major challenge is internal: the common foreign and security policy, the deepening of relations and, finally, enlargement. all those who - and there is a broad consensus in the national parliaments and in the european parliament - are in favour of a preventive peace policy, for all that dayton did not bring - and this is not a criticism of dayton, it was probably no different then - let us say, a long-term strategy for bringing south-eastern europe into the europe of integration and then into the europe of integration, this has now become operative policy. the stability pact for south-eastern europe must now be brought to life. the first and foremost thing is not money, but structural decisions. we must build trust there, we must create a free trade area there. trade and change must replace national aggression and the necessary means must be provided for this. so i appeal to all those who are in favour of a preventive peace policy here to commit themselves now to the long-term success of the stability pact, because that means drawing the right conclusions from the kosovo war, from the wars of success in yugoslavia. i would like to thank you all again, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for your support for the german presidency and i wish you, the new parliament, all the best, and also the new commission, which has undergone difficult hearings - the commissioners to be named in the torture chambers of the freely elected european parliament - and i mean this ironically and, of course, only rhetorically. have a good day. but i would like to make a request to you, if you will allow me, and above all to the new majority: we should discuss national policy at national level and argue fiercely and stick things to ourselves. but we should discuss european politics at european level and always maintain a fine line here! (applause from the centre)
thank you, president fischer. in addition to the opinions which have been expressed, on behalf of the parliament as a whole, may i thank you for your work, as you have put in six months of extraordinary hard work.
i would like to announce that i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37(2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes
- madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, our group is going to assess the commission on the basis of the road map before us, the hearings and the overall presentation of the programme announced for september. we are prepared to make this assessment very carefully and, of course, to seek a constructive approach. the president of the commission indicated the need to see a link between the composition of the commission itself and the programme. on this connection we will evaluate the choice that will be offered to us. for now, the composition seems to us to be inspired by some neo-centrist vocation, the presence of women still seems inadequate to us, but in any case, it is a matter of assessing the overall outcome of this event on the way. what will essentially decide is the relationship with the programme, and we are very willing to go into this. the president of the commission outlined some of the themes: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is also committed to the peace process in kosovo. i would now like to make a few comments on these two points. the first on the kosovo issue: i think it is useful to have an attitude of reconstruction, of reconciliation, of looking at the balkans as a territory of interlocution with europe. i think it is quite inappropriate not to see the devastation that the war has produced, not only in the balkans, but also in the international order, in international law that has been torn apart, in the un that has been demolished and in a significant reduction in europe's autonomy vis-à-vis the atlantic alliance and the united states of america. now, the reconstruction of the balkans is necessary, but to do that we need a return to autonomy and authority in europe. this also concerns its democratic construction. president prodi is paying attention to the intergovernmental conference, but i do not think he appreciates enough that the critical state of the institutions and the lack of trust with the citizens is not neutral, either politically or socially. of course, aggravated by the crisis of confidence produced by the commission's failure, there is a democratic deficit in this parliament, there is an abysmal distance of this parliament from the daily problems of the people of europe. the only governing body seems to be the european central bank, which has less control than the us one. we shall, however, be watching carefully what is said at the hearings and especially the september programme. we would like to say to you, mr president, that our attitude will depend on a correction we ask you to make to the direction of your previous speeches, a course correction which we were unable to appreciate here. i do not have to remind you that this europe has 20 million unemployed people - unemployment is a problem that undermines its social cohesion - that this europe is being called into question in the achievements of civilisations, such as welfare, by neoliberal policies, the same neoliberal policies that you have boasted in previous speeches, the additional need for flexibility, which has instead led to a reduction in the quality of work and life, unlike what you propose for the future. we propose that you consider the need for a course correction, and the two test beds are also indicated by this debate: the first concerns the relationship between europe and the world, the second the europe between the construction of europe and the individual realities of the various countries. the negotiations on the wto, on world trade, will be the test for europe to see whether it is able to condition the absolute primacy of free trade in goods, which is now dominant, on the need to protect the conditions of workers in the world, the environmental conditions and the health of the world's population and of the european population in particular. the other test bench is that of europe. here we have a stability pact which is increasingly becoming a prison for the possibility of responding to the problems of employment. the cost of war is also putting the stability pact to the test, and it is being tested by a growth situation which is so slow that it is totally inadequate to the problems of europe. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european social fund is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments proposed by the committee on budgets. in that spirit, we are prepared to engage constructively with the work you are about to do.
madam president, mr president of the commission, in january this year our parliament adopted the report by mr brok, who asked that the new commissioners should preferably be members of the european parliament, people with experience in the european institutions, that there should be a proper balance between men and women and a proper balance between political tendencies. i leave it to you and this parliament to assess how much you wanted, or perhaps could, to implement that resolution of parliament. mr president, you have even announced an era of change, a revolution - i wish you all the best - and you have also referred to internal restructuring, which perhaps mr kinnock will tell us about, and this is the fifth in seven years! i can assure you, however, that it will not be the change in the number of directorates-general, the fact that they are called by name and not by number, the fact that commissioners live scattered throughout brussels or that the spokesman is strengthened, which will bring the institutions closer to the general public, to whom you referred. what is missing from our europe, from our institutions, is a new vision of europe in the 2000s. we are now living in a situation which is post-berlin wall, post-kohl, post-mitterrand, post-single currency, post-enlargement, and which is pre-almost nothing. this is the vision, the challenge, and for us - we radicals - it remains a yardstick of appreciation, a very clear compass, the federalist compass of altiero spinelli, which will enable us to know whether or not our institutions are moving towards a stronger union, towards more europe, towards political europe. i believe that this is the challenge that must unite us in the diversity of our roles, knowing that those who have built up to this point, mr president, colleagues new and old, deserve perhaps even more respect and even a little more generosity. (applause from the left)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prodi, we have noted - we, the members of the national alliance - the declared desire to renew and revolutionize the commission. we shall of course check on the basis of facts whether words are followed by concrete achievements, but i want to say at this stage that we shall assess only on the basis of facts and not on the basis of what the respective positions in national politics are. we are certainly at home on different positions, but we are united in the will to build a europe which is increasingly the europe that the peoples of the old continent trust. we appreciated that you made it very clear that it is urgent to restore the relationship of trust between the european citizens and the commission. it 's a broken trust . the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body, and it is not a political body. the commission's proposals are not only a step in the right direction, but also a step in the wrong direction, and we believe that they are not only due to the events which led to the resignation of the previous commission, but also, and i would say above all, because european citizens too often see the commission as the source of bureaucratic impositions, sometimes costly, sometimes unnecessary and not even urgent, sometimes obscure and even harmful, impositions which have nothing to do with the process of building a united europe and which, unfortunately, in many circumstances are harmful to european ideals. the recovery of confidence will therefore come if there is greater transparency, but above all if there is greater respect in the issuing of directives for what are the national cultures and peculiarities, as well as a greater and more frequent use of the principle of subsidiarity. it will also be essential for the commission to pay greater attention to the fundamental rights of european citizens. in this connection we were particularly pleased to hear from you a desire to pay greater attention not only to the right to work but also to the right to health; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of foodstuffs is not compromised, for example by the quality of foodstuffs, because the damage caused by events such as the dioxin-laden chicken or the mad cow, the damage which these events cause to the overall credibility of the community institutions, is a huge damage which cannot be remedied by words and which, unfortunately, in many cases requires a great deal of time, time which is not always available to the institutions. in conclusion, i think it is essential, in this situation, not only to stick to the facts, and not to do so in a manner that is not the same as the presentation of national controversies, but above all to do so with a closer relationship between the institution you preside over and parliament: i hope that this will lead, for example, to the commission, which you chair, having more respect for the work of members of parliament, and thus to a better promptness and quality of answers to questions than in the recent past. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prodi, we expect from you not only a new political determination of the commission which you will lead but a strong commitment to open a great season of reform and change in europe. that is why we on the left look to his programme with confidence. we're not here to conserve, we're here to reform: we are here to reform european institutions, politics and the economy, because we want institutions that are ever closer to the people, even those voters who did not believe in this mission in the recent elections. we want a policy capable of solving problems and governing them, an economy which is attentive to building the foundations of a fair, supportive and compatible society. in this respect, i believe that the institutional innovation project you have mentioned can be the subject of a dialogue, as mr bourlanges has just said, even between the various forces in this parliament. the aim we must set ourselves is a process which will lead to a stronger and more marked political, economic and social cohesion. this is the direction we must move in. i am sure that you, your team - i can tell by the balance of your team - will be in the best position to carry out this work. you have been appointed president of the european commission because of your demonstrated ability to govern italy with wisdom and competence, because of your professional experience, which is internationally recognised, and because you represent a response of confidence and strength to the crisis that hit the previous commission. allow me to recall with pride the years of joint work with president prodi in the government of the country, the difficult challenges we faced, those we won, including the very difficult one for italy, the euro. today, she is the leader of europe: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will continue to do so. europe today needs hope, confidence in itself and its own qualities. we have just come out of a painful conflict which has forced the international community to intervene to defend the right to exist of a people excluded from their land, that of kosovo. we entered this conflict on milosevic's sole responsibility; we have emerged from it thanks to european cohesion, solidarity between allies, a new political climate between europe, the usa and russia. let us ask ourselves what europe could be today with its stronger and more determined political profile. and what we could be and what we could do as europeans must be now, starting with kosovo, with the obligations that we have to start the reconstruction, to give life to a policy of peace and stability for the whole balkan area, for a federal republic of yugoslavia that is democratic and multiethnic. for us, therefore, to be european means in this case to support all those forces which are currently fighting in serbia for a pluralist and democratic system. you 're expected to do a lot . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and we are very much looking forward to hearing the commissioners' views. young europeans in particular expect a lot from the commission, since they expect concrete results in the fight against unemployment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. young people in particular expect - and we ourselves expect - from the commission a great policy for training, research, culture and the environment, and then economic growth and freedom, freedom from bureaucracy and constraint. this freedom of society, together with the capacity to guarantee rights, which the public authorities must be able to express, can really create that society of equal opportunities which is the reason for our political commitment. we 're at a crossroads . virtually every member state will face its own welfare reform . the welfare state was born in europe, under the impetus of the organized workers' movement, to help the weakest and most defenseless. the task before us today is to build a new welfare of opportunity, which again helps the weakest but which is capable, at the same time, of mobilizing human and material resources in favour of growth, development, lifelong learning, which is able to restore hope and confidence, precisely in europe and in its own resources: the european union is a europe of opportunity, as jacques delors would say, a europe of growth and development, a europe of peace and stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the europe we want! we are confident that with you and your commission, mr prodi, we can try to achieve this. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, as a member of the northern league for the independence of padua, when i did not vote my confidence in him in rome, i considered professor prodi an ass as head of government, and rightly so, because he was not trusted by the italian parliament. i believe that a roman donkey remains a roman donkey outside the italian capital, as is shown by the symbol of the list which bears his name for the election of this parliament, and i cannot, for reasons of consistency, express my confidence in him as president of the commission. i am also fortunate to be immune, as an italian, only holding an italian passport, to the christian-democratic national opportunism which, like berlusconi in mastella and de mita, sees in prodi not the impartial president of the commissioners who are not influenced by the states, but the benefactor of the various profiteers of the south. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
president prodi, this is your third meeting with this parliament, a parliament which has changed a great deal but where there is an institutional continuity which we must all respect. we know the directives you intend to give to the commission, which you have completed and clarified today with regard to the reform of the institution, and you know the orientation and also the political concerns of the european parliament. i'm going to do three very quick reflections. the first: we share the objective of reviving economic union through political europe. this requires a strong synergy between the commission and parliament, a parliament which has the democratic representation of the european citizens and which must therefore make a fundamental contribution to the reform of the european institutions. this is the house in which, as you have said on other occasions, we must seek that european soul which is dominant for the future of the continent. but if we are to restore trust between the institutions and the people of europe, we think that a relationship of loyal and strong cooperation between the european institutions, and therefore between parliament and the commission, must be established. the second reflection concerns the objections and the debate which we shall resume in september. the objections, i believe, are primarily aimed at verifying the compatibility between the choices he made in the formation of the team he presented today and the general guidelines he presented to this parliament. we fully support a strategy based on the conviction that it is essential to respect the stability pact and we share the view that the fundamental question today is to make europe a more competitive system in order to get back on the road to development, also in the fight against unemployment. we think, however, that it is also appropriate to stress the reasons why there has recently been talk of an employment pact and the need to pay close attention to the regional imbalances that still exist in europe. without a european strategy in this respect, there is a risk that an economy such as ours will tend to concentrate its resources in the strongest areas, leaving the weakest on the margins, even though some of these have made considerable progress in recent times. the third and final point concerns the speech which president martens made in this parliament on behalf of the european people during the debate on the political guidelines. he expressed strong support for his candidacy and called for the commission to tackle some of the problems that were hampering its work. i believe, however, that, however particular the constitutional character of the commission/parliament relations, the concerns raised about the political balance that exists in this parliament and is not reflected in the commission are well founded. we hope that the hearings will help to solve this problem as well. (applause) i would like to thank
the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to extend my warm congratulations to all the newly elected members of the european parliament. as i said earlier today, mr president, i also warmly congratulate you on your election. i'm very happy to be able to start working with you. in accordance with parliament's wishes, i shall now present the main points of finland's presidency programme. i shall deal with your request in particular with the situation in the western balkans and the death sentence against the kurdish leader, öcalan. but first, a few words on the development of the union in general. in his speech, mr prodi drew attention to the way in which the european union's institutions have lagged behind the pace of change in the world around us. i fully agree with the commission's nominee. it is not just the commission that needs to be reformed, but the whole of the european union. it is not a one-off revolution, nor is it the work of one single institution, but a continuous process. we must remember that it is the capacity to grow, to expand and to meet ever new challenges that has made the union both unique and sustainable. today, as we begin our cooperation, we have the opportunity to do so from a kind of clean slate. the new parliament has now begun its work and the appointment of the new commission is under way. we finns have for the first time assumed the presidency of the council. the recent entry into force of the amsterdam treaty provides us with a good basis for developing ever closer cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council. we now have a great opportunity to start to renew the old ways of doing things. for my part, i would like to stress that the work of the council must also be developed. it is paradoxical that, as the union's importance increases, the cooperation of its governments in the council is threatened by a fragmentation and sectoralisation of the exercise of power. the council, like the union as a whole, must concentrate on the essential. the council is expected to provide political leadership that adds real value to the lives of citizens. finland intends to initiate and implement a number of projects to develop the work of the council during its presidency. we are seeking to make the council's work more transparent and effective, and we consider that greater transparency is a necessary precondition for the whole union to be acceptable to the public. we also want the general affairs council to take up its proper role in directing the council's work. we must do everything we can to ensure that the union is and is seen as one: it must have a common will, a common policy and a common voice. the new president, mr prodi, said that the keywords for the new commission were transparency, accountability and efficiency. i am very pleased to see that the new commission's approach corresponds exactly to the main priorities of the finnish presidency. finland has taken over the presidency of the council at a time when the union's external action capacity is under exceptional pressure. the war in the western balkans has caused an unimaginable amount of human suffering and material damage. the european union must have the political and economic capacity to contribute to the development of the western balkans in order to give it the chance to establish democracy and stability. during its presidency, finland will pay particular attention to the efficiency and consistency of the union's external action. the post-kosovo crisis and the stabilisation of the western balkans are the most important test for us. the european union's general affairs council on monday stressed that the union would continue to help the serbian people who are suffering from the destructive policies of their leaders. in the next stage of the lifting of sanctions against the federal republic of yugoslavia, we will take into account that the government in belgrade and the people of yugoslavia are two different things. (applause) i would like to thank the the yugoslav government must implement un security council resolution 1244, cooperate with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and make progress towards democratization. we agreed on monday that the first thing to be done is to lift the restrictions on the population, such as the flight ban and the avoidance of contact in the sports sector. we stressed the need to free kosovo and montenegro quickly from oil import sanctions and other sanctions. we also consider it important to support all those in the federal republic of yugoslavia who are committed to democratic values. we should then define the means and methods to facilitate the situation of such operators. this includes, for example, the supply of electricity and crude oil. we asked the commission and the competent bodies to make proposals without delay. we also confirmed in the general affairs council the decision of the heads of state or government on the location of the agency for reconstruction and the decision on the south-east european stability pact summit in sarajevo. the kosovo crisis can be the dividing line from which the different forms of external action of the union are decisively steered towards a common goal. e union's external relations toolbox needs to be strengthened to improve its effectiveness, our capacity to anticipate crises needs to be improved and our post-crisis preparedness needs to be strengthened. we discussed this at length on monday at the open session of the general affairs council. we were all very much in agreement about developing this sector on a fast timetable. the european union is best placed to contribute to regional stability through a consistent and determined policy. i would like us to remember, however, that the union is far from being solely responsible for the post-crisis management of kosovo. we work closely with other countries and international organisations. it is precisely the further development and deepening of cooperation with the united nations, the osce and the council of europe that is essential. on several occasions, members of parliament have stressed the importance of the union as a motor and guarantor of peaceful and balanced development on our continent. this is what the next enlargement is all about. the european union is gradually becoming a pan-european union. in at least one respect, the enlargement to follow is different from all previous ones: the union's own cooperation has been deepened to a level which places very high demands on all applicants to achieve. i am convinced, however, that these requirements are good for both the applicant countries and the union. the fulfilment of the criteria strengthens the social and economic development of the applicant countries, and this has also been noted in the applicant countries. enlargement is a process that must be moved forward all the time and must not be jeopardised by empty promises. the finnish presidency will continue the accession negotiations with determination, with the aim of completing as many negotiating tables as possible and starting new ones. the helsinki european council is to decide, on the basis of a commission report, on the inclusion of the new applicant countries in the accession negotiations. at the same time, we considered the development of relations with european countries and the long-term prospects for enlargement. enlargement will require adaptation of the institutional system of the union: we have already begun preparations for a new intergovernmental conference, and we intend to draw up a report on this subject for the helsinki european council. parliament's views are of paramount importance in this reform and i have noted with satisfaction that our views are very similar on many issues. we cannot forget turkey in the enlargement process. turkey is an important partner for the union. it is involved in the enlargement process and has its own strategy. turkey's prospects for membership are influenced by its progress in democratic reforms and the development of human rights, especially minority rights. in this context, i would like to emphasise that the union is opposed to the death penalty everywhere and in all cases. the abolition of the death penalty is a common objective of the european union. finland will be monitoring the situation as chair. the execution of the verdict against the kurdish leader öcalan would be a regrettable turn in turkish politics. turkey is a member of the council of europe and has therefore joined the objective of abolishing the death penalty. the country has not carried out any executions since 1984. it is desirable that turkey continue to suspend the execution of the sentence until the death penalty is abolished. it is hoped that the turkish parliament will use its opportunity to overturn the sentence. turkey has expressed its desire to join the european union. the abstention from the death penalty is part of the common values of the union. mr president, i shall not go through the entire programme of the presidency at this point. my visit to the committee in september will provide an opportunity to continue the debate on external relations. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is actively promoting the peace process, both politically and economically. i will be travelling to the region in early august to meet the main actors and to convey the union's ideas on promoting the peace process. whether we are talking about enlargement or conflict prevention, we can be sure of one thing: we can only help others if our own well-being is on a firm footing. knowledge and skills are fundamental to our own well-being and competitiveness, that of the member states and the union as a whole. the information society offers new opportunities for citizens, businesses and the public sector. in the coming months, we will be exploring how the information society can be used to improve competitiveness. at the same time, we must ensure that development does not widen the gap between different groups in society. we have not yet fully exploited the opportunities that monetary union and the single market offer us. we can only create new jobs if our economy is in good shape. the improvement in employment is an indication that we are moving in the right direction. we will continue to work on gender equality, social and ecological sustainability, youth and citizens' well-being. i know that all these issues are important also in this parliament and that the european parliament has done a great deal to promote them. (fi) i spoke earlier about how the union can contribute to strengthening security in europe and the world. the security of the people is not just the absence of war, but also economic security, the exercise of human rights and the protection of the rule of law. the tampere european council aims to create a more coherent and solidary immigration and asylum policy and to strengthen the fight against crossborder crime. the member states' legislation in this sector needs to be harmonised and approximated, judgments enforced more effectively and administrative and legal obstacles to cooperation removed. i started with the idea that the union can only succeed if there is close and open cooperation between all the parties involved and if the european citizens actively support it. the european parliament has a crucial role to play in this cooperation. i would like to wish you and the members of this house energy and tenacity, heart and will at the beginning of the session and assure you that the finnish presidency expects a great deal from our cooperation. (applause) i would like to thank the
(fr) i would like first of all to thank madam president-in-office for her comments regarding the abolition of the death penalty. i believe that, on the finnish initiative, the european union is preparing to implement other initiatives on an international level, and i am grateful for that. the point i would like to highlight here concerns kosovo. nobody has spoken about it until now, but there is a problem which has not been confronted, or has not been confronted with the determination expected by the european union. it is that of the three thousand kosovan prisoners who were literally kidnapped by mr milosevic and his henchmen during the latter days of the international intervention in kosovo and transferred by force to serbian prisons. nobody knows anything about these three thousand people. they are mr kurti, the former leader of the student movement in pristina, professor oti, and three thousand other people who have literally disappeared. i would like to know whether, on the initiative of the finnish presidency, we may finally take determined action, with the support of the red cross and other international organisations, to oblige the war criminal milosevic not to do what he has done so many times before: to use blackmail, to use these people who are now in his hands and about whom nothing is known, to once again oblige the european union to drop the evidence. i believe that, before even talking about lifting the embargo, mr milosevic should be forced to release all of these people unconditionally. (applause)
mr president, in his speech this morning, president fontaine said of kosovo: the weapons are silent, the horror is over, peace is to be built. the weapons are silent, mr president, but the landmines continue to kill. the horror of war is over, but not the horror of the discovery, day after day, of mass graves, a tragic and heartbreaking testimony to the contempt for the right to life of individuals and peoples, which is nothing but respect for diversity, for the identity of a people for whose affirmation we will fight in this house and in our national assemblies. 'it is not acceptable', president fontaine said, 'to see human rights trampled on within europe'. we are also in agreement on this, given that we are taking part in the process of solidarity between nations through a common foreign and security policy, which my group has been fighting for since the beginning of its presence in the european parliament. the common foreign and security policy will make it possible to achieve, starting from the balkans, with the urgency and determination that the present situation requires, the objectives of peace, economic stability and the guarantee of respect for human rights. nato has won the war, europe must build peace: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and the european council has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. of course, the creation of an agency in itself is not a solution to the problem. but it 's all to see . i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to ask him whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and if he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. it is true that the war has left deep wounds: it has left them visible, clearly visible in the territories and in the people who in those territories lost their lives or were actually expelled from those territories. but it has also caused wounds in some governments that have no clear foreign policy. however, it certainly marked the failure of ten years of diplomacy and highlighted the carelessness, the shortcomings, sometimes the wastefulness, of international cooperation. the european union's commitment cannot therefore be seen as being limited to the reconciliation of the parties to the conflict, but will be measured by the overall capacity it will demonstrate to reconcile the stability pact, reconstruction and ever-increasing unemployment. the president of the commission, in his statement, pledged to spend on reconstruction, not on bureaucracy. we hope it's a reconstruction not only of the material but also of the immaterial: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the reconstruction of the country, and that the community's financial resources are used to finance the reconstruction of the country. if europe were to pursue the aim indicated by president prodi - to give the balkans a clear political and economic future - it would certainly do a great deal, but it would not fully fulfil its task, which is also to contribute substantially to building a path of democratic development, certainly economic but essentially social and cultural, in the awareness that reconciliation is all the stronger and more stable the more it is equipped with tolerance and respect for diversity.
mr president, between milosevic's thumb and nato's hammer: this is the view of a large part of the serbian democratic opposition to milosevic. between the violence of the serbian paramilitary and paramilitary forces, the intimidation and violence of the kla and the nato bombs falling from the sky: this is the feeling of those albanian forces in kosovo who had chosen to fight for their rights through non-violence; against nato bombing and against milosevic's nationalism and murderous and suicidal policy: this is the feeling of millions and millions of european men and women who believe that respect for human rights is fundamental wherever they are violated: the following are also included in the list: the european union is not a party to the peace process, but a party to the peace process. of course, milosevic was and must be stopped, just as the kla was and must be stopped, each with its own different responsibilities. today, after nato has destroyed and devastated in the name of defending human rights, we must rebuild. we hope and would like to work in this parliament to ensure that reconstruction takes place with respect for and appreciation of the human resources and dignity of each party to the conflict and not with a colonization of europe, of the world bank by the united states. reconstruct kosovo with the protagonism of the people who live and have lived there, the albanians and the serbs; at the same time, rebuild serbia and montenegro, the infrastructure devastated and destroyed by the bombings; repair and investigate environmental damage; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the reconstruction process must therefore involve local communities, with exchanges between municipalities, universities, women and men from the european union, kosovo and the yugoslav republic. reconciliation, building societies, building democracy, so that war can really be out of history: this is our challenge!
mr president, nato intervened in yugoslavia claiming to defend the kosovars from serbian persecution, but no one intervened to defend the kurds from turkish persecution. and this is the focal point of the öcalan issue: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this is the text of article 125 of the turkish penal code, which, as the turkish ambassador kaleli has said here in strasbourg, is in keeping with article 241 of the italian penal code, which was enacted during the fascist era and is still in force. so as long as the european parliament focuses its attention only on whether or not to execute president öcalan, without addressing the issue of self-determination of peoples in depth, it will scratch the surface of the problem but will never succeed in solving it.
council. - (fi) mr president, time and again, we will return to those issues that have been raised here in these two hours or so. i apologise sincerely for not being able to respond to all the excellent, well-considered and immensely important speeches that we have heard here today. i have solved the time problem to some extent by addressing some of the issues that have been touched on by the majority of members in my response. firstly, the situation in the balkans. in september, when i come to the committee meeting here i shall certainly be once more engaged in the same discussion. however, i would like to answer two questions. firstly, the position on the commission"s agency in thessaloniki, which has been expressed here, comes as no surprise. the commission expressed the same position in the general affairs council. the general affairs council made a unanimous decision, which you are aware of, and which i mentioned in my speech. we begin from the position that the european union will approach the issue of stability in the balkans on a regional basis. accordingly, the headquarters will be in thessaloniki. however, the centre of operations, the first of such, will be in pristina and there will be more of them in other regions as and when facilities improve. i sincerely hope that we, the commission and you yourselves will achieve consensus on this matter. as far as i am aware, we have a tradition that when the heads of our governments and states come to a decision on an issue at a summit, be it a regular or extraordinary meeting, we strive in the general affairs council to find a way of implementing that decision. this is what was done in the case of the thessaloniki office as well as with regard to the broader plan and hombach. as the country holding the presidency, we shall strive to implement, as i said, all those decisions we need in respect of sarajevo and the future. in every respect i agree that we have to avoid excessive bureaucracy. that is not the right way to provide employment for the citizens of the european union. but we do need a sufficient number of skilled officials to take care of the operation. as for the other matters, i would just like to say briefly that despite all the help we shall give the region, ultimately the responsibility obviously lies with the people there themselves. we will only be providing them with support. serbia is a part of the balkans. for this reason, we have looked at great length into ways of helping serbia to achieve democracy as quickly as possible. one condition of the return to democracy is freedom of opinion. in this i agree with what has been said here regarding the safety of those who are speaking for freedom of opinion and also the proposal that we should create, through various means, a structure to support real freedom of opinion for this country. the war is behind us, but the peace has to be built. for this, we shall also need peacekeeping forces. finland is not a member state of nato, though you might perhaps have formed the opinion she was, from some of the speeches we have heard. but finland respects the choice of those eleven eu member states who do belong to nato. finland, which has a population of five million, is making its contribution by sending eight hundred peacekeepers to kosovo. you may compare that figure in terms of the population of your own country. in my opinion, we should all share in the task of ensuring that the balkan region is secure. but as i said before, for this we need a non-military option in addition to the military one. in this connection, i would like to acknowledge the role played by denmark for being the first country to allude clearly to this issue in the resolution passed at the cologne council meeting. denmark was the country to make the proposal, but finland is the country which, as holder of the presidency, will promote this worthy initiative as vigorously as possible in co-operation with others. i would also like to mention that the international war crimes tribunal is, in our opinion, extremely important, and the tribunal dealing with war crimes in yugoslavia is a special partner in co-operation for us. we have been co-operating together in kosovo ever since the report was put together on the mass killings at racak, when the expert opinion of finnish coroners was used. we believe this policy is a coherent one. next, i will briefly mention the tampere summit again. we will strive to strike a balance, a very delicate balance, between human rights and the question of security. the tampere meeting will be preceded by an independent meeting of non-governmental organisations, and we, for our part, wish to offer them our support, while obviously respecting their independent status. the european union must not be allowed to become a fortress: it must be both strong and open at the same time. this is the principle upon which we will operate, with respect to the tampere summit also. the rights of minorities are a weak area in established democracies also, whatever aspect of minorities they are concerned with. i wish to call attention to the fact that there is often room for improvement in all our countries when it comes to the status of ethnic minorities. the roma are a european minority with no host country to speak up for them when their rights are being violated. i have been in touch with the foreign ministry in slovakia, one of the applicant countries, and we have begun talks on how the issue may be solved from their point of view. but there is no cause for complacency: the status of the romain europe is by no means good. in addition, the situation regarding the rights of minorities in turkey has been mentioned here. i spoke of it in my speech, and the kurdish question will most certainly be a subject for debate here very often in the future, when we shall strive to find a way to improve the situation. as for enlargement, we shall accept with seriousness the challenge this presents while finland holds the presidency. as i must respect the order of business i cannot go into this question in any great detail now as it would take up too much time. but i would like to assure you of two things. we shall treat the applicant countries as impartially as possible, on the basis of the commission"s reports, and we shall try to make our decisions wisely so that the applicant countries will feel they have made progress according to their individual merits, believing the process to be fair, efficiently undertaken and conducive to the common good. for this reason, we finns have never made promises in connection with timetables any more than we have regarding other matters. however, in our opinion, enlargement is a special issue, and we will do everything within our power in the area of institutional reform to move it along. institutional reforms must be introduced in such a way that the union can live with them even when the number of member states has exceeded twenty. finally, i have to commend the many here who have spoken of a socially and ecologically strong europe. that gives me hope. i mentioned it today to a group representing young people in europe, who met me, as a representative of the european union, at a writing competition award ceremony. i assured them that we would be giving consideration to the issue of youth, although there is no longer any special portfolio attached to this issue. issues of youth can be successfully dealt with by means of mainstreaming, just as effectively as, for example, issues of gender equality, aged people, as has been touched upon here, and other such matters. i believe that we have to discuss the matter again with the new commission, and also with you here in the european parliament. i have tried to be as brief as possible to keep to the schedule, and in keeping with the spirit of the new, efficient european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m.
the next item on the agenda concerns the statements by the council and the commission on the appointment of martin bangemann to a post in the private sector.
i would like to take this opportunity to say that i was always unpleasantly surprised by the fact – and this observation has nothing to do with the debate now taking place – that generally, when the conciliation committees were held, all the commissioners except for one, were present and on time. commissioner bangemann never took part. he would send officials in his place, in spite of protests from us, members of the european parliament. i don"t know, maybe it was just his way of doing things that was the problem.
council . – (fi) mr president, we have been unanimous in this debate. the actions of mr bangemann, a member of the commission, in this affair can in no way be approved. i would like to thank those who have spoken for having given their approval of the council"s decision to take swift action in this affair, and for their support in bringing the case to court. i would like to underline the importance of mr prodi"s code of practice in this connection, and i wish to refer to mr elles" speech in which he said that hopefully we will not be saying ‘too little, too late’ next time. we must take care this time, then, that codes of conduct are absolutely clear and legally binding on all parties. in my view, it is an issue that concerns us all as it is sometimes hard for the public, as was mentioned here, to distinguish between the institutions of the union, which means that events such as this should not be allowed to occur in any of the institutions. thank you.
commission. – i should like to begin by saying that mrs read was absolutely right to draw attention to the moderate way in which the resolution is couched and indeed the moderation of the language throughout the whole of this debate. it would have been easy for people to try to make a populist appeal. that was almost entirely avoided. that simply added to the weight of the opinion of this house and therefore to the reaction which everyone has just heard from mrs sasi, president-in-office of the council. mr elles was quite right to emphasise that it is absolutely essential to see responsibility exercised to the highest standard. i hope – to take mr barón crespo's point – that this experience is not repeated, that we can ensure that specific and very clear provision is made so that there cannot be any repetition of the experience of recent weeks. there are those who would say, and they have, i believe, rationality on their side, that the provisions of article 213 of the treaty and its references to integrity and discretion mean that for anyone who has an understanding of required standards in public life, little more should need to be said, if anything. but if it is necessary – and i am conscious of being subject to the fact this issue is now before the court – even then to be more specific about what the implications of integrity and discretion are, then i am glad the house welcomes the developments that will take place as a consequence of the initiative taken by the president designate. i look forward to ensuring that there is a full response to both the appeal of mr barón crespo and that of mr elles to the demonstration of the highest standards of public integrity. i would also say that mr kreissl-dörfler was right to emphasise, together with mr duff – in a very interesting maiden speech – that if all institutions do not demonstrate the highest standards of rectitude for themselves, by themselves, then those standards will be imposed externally, either in the form of punishment by the general public, initially through its apathy and detachment but maybe in other ways more directly, politically too, or by the council taking a responsibility which others appear to be unwilling to demonstrate. i do not believe the european union, its institutions or its people would be enriched by that experience. it is a fair warning to all of us who serve the institutions and the european people that we are responsible for our own destiny and our own standards and we must therefore proceed without any form of delay to ensuring that those standards are as stringent as possible. i was interested in the point made in another fine maiden speech by miss van der laan which calls for a response. i am happy to report to the house that she is a friend of some years and therefore my joy in witnessing her maiden speech was very particular. i see it was shared in other parts of the house. she said that it would be ‘better if the commission had taken the step of reference to the court of justice’. i should like to say to her, therefore, that the commission, as i reported earlier, discussed the matter in its meeting of 1 july. in that meeting the feeling was expressed that the issues relating to mr bangemann and to article 213 had legal complexities that could not be speedily resolved. for that reason the commission made plain its view in its statement of 1 july that there needed to be clarification of implementation of article 213. there was no consensus at that meeting which supported reference to the court of justice at that stage. i say that to ensure that members of this house understand that the issue is live, it has been a matter of discussion, the action has now been taken by the council and that determines the path for the future. but there is no lack of concern or consideration in the current commission, despite the fact that it is coming to the end of its life, in these issues. i conclude by saying that mrs laguiller made an extremely valuable contribution to this debate because, like others, she dramatised the issue quite properly by drawing attention to the economic gaps in society and the way in which those divisions actually serve to emphasise the fact that it is absolutely essential for those of us who have the good fortune to hold representative and appointed positions in the public service to act with complete integrity and discretion. we enjoy a very considerable privilege. we must, therefore, show complete probity. this debate has served to underlined that. if anybody ever needed the lesson, this has added to it. i hope we can look forward to a future where no instruction will be necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday at 12.00 p.m. i have received four motions for resolution pursuant to rule 37(2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes composition of the political groups – proposals of the conference of presidents – agenda for next part-session: see minutes (the sitting was closed at 9.10 p.m.)
the minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed. are there any comments?
mr evans, we have followed the building regulations and taken them into serious consideration during this time at the presidency office, and i believe that your concerns received due attention. i will, however, pass on your comments to the president and they will be discussed at the presidency office, so that all possible clarification may be given to the assembly on this matter.
mr evans, my opinion is that the building complies with all the specifications laid down by law, but at this precise moment, i am unable to give you a guarantee of this because i do not have the relevant information to hand, and i therefore reserve the right to pass on your intervention to the president. (the minutes were approved)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the contamination by dioxins of certain products intended for human or animal consumption.
to return to the comment made a minute ago, the competent services confirm that there is indeed a problem with the computer programme, and that the names will be corrected, i hope, by the next part-session in september.
madam president, with regard to the joint resolution adopted on kosovo, and particularly paragraph 11, which seems to be a moment for dialogue between the different positions, i think it is important, in the context of the explanation of vote, to highlight certain aspects. one of these is linked to the structure of the agency for kosovo and its reconstruction. i think that the identification of a decentralised and flexible structure to improve its effectiveness is a very important element, but one which must be linked to a more comprehensive assessment. since 1990, certain areas of europe, of southern italy, and particularly puglia, have been experiencing a discomfort linked to their geographical location in relation to migratory flows. the conflict in kosovo has further complicated this. in assessing the situation, i think it is crucial to have a more comprehensive assessment of the problem and to try to identify solutions which, in the context of the elasticity of the structure, can highlight certain aspects related to the problems of these territories in southern italy.
- (it) madam president, the technical group of independent members will be in session until tomorrow morning. that is why, as you can imagine, we are asking for a vote. we are even asking that it be announced now that the assembly will be called upon to decide tomorrow morning on the admission of the tdi group. in an open letter to all members, the members of the bonino list have tried to explain the reasons for this constitution, the reasons for discrimination against non-members of parliament, the reasons for our initiative - and our other initiative, namely our proposal to amend the rules of procedure, which i hope will be made public soon. we also asked members to vote with us against this interpretation.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the wise men is an excellent report, that goes without saying. of course, its recommendations will have to be studied very carefully, and in my view it has important implications for the college of commissioners, as did the first report. i think that this second report must, if necessary, have just as important and just as severe consequences at the level of the commission's structure, where it is deemed necessary. since everyone is talking about the commission, i should like to speak about the european parliament. a little self-criticism sometimes does no harm, even to other institutions. some members strongly opposed the motion for a committee of wise men in january and february - they thought it was a kind of hand-holding to drown everything by creating a committee. i would like to say the following to them: i think they realise that they have made a big mistake, both in their eyes and in their reasoning, and that they should at least withdraw all the criticisms that were made at the time against this impetus, which was given, in my view, in a very positive way, by the european parliament, by those who voted for the establishment of the committee of wise men. i would also like our parliament to be inspired by the report of the wise men. what does the report say? in his view, even the institutions and budgetary authorities did not quickly identify a series of malfunctions, nor did they act in the best and wisest way to avoid the deviations that had emerged: i am thinking in particular of the main policy responsible for the withdrawal of mini-budgets. the commission has also been very active in the fight against fraud, and we have been very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to do so. this policy seemed to be the universal solution. the abolition of mini-budgets and the freezing of human resources: this is the recipe the commission should have followed in implementing a myriad of additional policies. four years later, those who were strongly opposed to mini-budgets are now saying: ah, you have given the places to the bat, to the technical assistance offices! a little self-criticism, then. these same members are now talking to us about helicopters, for example. we hear a lot about augusta, but never about westland, to name just a few. well, i would like those members who talk so much about the agusta case to also talk about the westland case, given the commission's interest in these helicopter stories as well. after this little interlude, let's get back to our subject. our parliament should... (the president withdrew the floor)
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after a first examination of the report before us and comparing it with the comments made by members of this house, we have not been able to make a thorough analysis of what the wise men have told us. we had the impression - or at least i had the impression - that we were faced with a fine series of analyses, proposals, standards and legal reminders that work well but are useless. there are 90 recommendations, they said. true, god made 10 commandments, but especially in regard to the seventh, he has not succeeded in curbing the number of thieves and criminals that are rampaging through our planet. i hope that these standards will somehow achieve a certain result, but i believe that as a parliament we must first start with ourselves, perhaps by asking, as a strong proposal, that the parliament's inspection union's acts vis-à-vis the commission be strengthened and also by giving us a procedural method. today the president of parliament announced the dissolution of the technical group of independent members. in my opinion, this too is a case of fraud, because the authoritarian dissolving of the free will of people who have joined an association in accordance with an article of the rules of procedure is certainly not a good act of democracy and freedom. on the contrary, if it is only the economic budget of the groups and the attendees that inspired this act, then we are faced with a real case of fraud.
- madam president, since this is an annex to the minutes, it is appropriate, in accordance with the rules of procedure, to vote tomorrow morning, together with the minutes, if you please.
- madam president, there are matters on which the presidency decides and this is a guarantee to the whole house that the principles of the proper use of procedures, even the most reasonable ones, are not called into question. we had accepted the decision you had communicated. to go back on this now and to hand over to the majority of the house the decision you so wisely took, just because of the intervention of the president of the socialist group, seems to me to be a rather weak reason, compared with the principle you applied and which we all supported.
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to be asked to vote on the commission chaired by mr prodi, who has presented a good programme, as do all those who present programmes. it would be a pity if he - or his colleagues - were unable to present a good programme. consider what he has done in the past. i am not talking about what mr prodi has done professionally, because his personal fortune is considerable - he has managed his own abilities well. i'm talking about his actions as president of the iri, the largest public economic body in italy. he has squandered billions - or, to speak of liras, trillions - of money, mainly from the padanese taxpayers, in a ruinous policy. just think of the steelworks in southern italy, which are now closed. i would remind you that when he was president of the italian council, he was deprived of confidence by the italian parliament and by certain political forces which, turning a blind eye, are prepared to vote for him here - i do not know with what audacity or courage - after having opposed him in rome.
- (it) mr president, mr president-elect, ladies and gentlemen, the chapter of history has meant that we are called upon to hold this debate today following a crisis of transparency and a crisis of the commission's functioning. mr president-elect, you have agreed to help us out of the crisis. this has led you to propose today - and we have asked you to do so - institutional reforms and a great strengthening of european policy. it could not be otherwise, because, beyond the serious crisis which has caused this situation, we are faced, for the opposite reasons, with a demand for institutional reforms and for strengthening policy, and with greater attention to the need to achieve them. for reasons that are apparently opposite, as i said, because one of the issues we are facing is the apparent perplexity - and i hope it is only perplexity and not lack of confidence - of european citizens, as evidenced by the low turnout in the june elections. there is no doubt, however, that there is a growing demand for a european presence. the kosovo crisis has certainly brought to mind the real original project of the european constitution: europe as an instrument of strengthened european institutions, as an instrument to guarantee peace, even before prosperity, throughout the continent. from this point of view, this demand implies obligations in terms of enlargement and strengthening which we must assume. but from the other point of view, from the point of view of europe already formed, this europe already united, the countries that have already joined the union, we have a greater demand for a european presence. the euro is an instrument, an intermediate step: it is a condition, an instrument to bring prosperity to all, so that we can move on to policies that constitute the fundamental chapter we are facing, the final objective, namely more growth, more development and more jobs. we need new transparency, new institutions, new policy. as regards transparency - as we have already said, mr president - our group has a lot of confidence in you. that confidence will of course depend on the results you and your commission will achieve, on each commissioner and his commitment to those high moral and professional qualities which we will monitor by all possible means and in all forms, including those excellent forms of transparency which you have guaranteed us. the most important progress we need to make, in my view, is on the institutional problem. we are thereby playing the image of the institutions as a whole in the eyes of european citizens. i believe that the points of the triangle you have indicated - commission, parliament, council - must evolve, are evolving, will evolve along a sloping line, that of the gradual and inevitable transfer of powers from governments - that is, from the council - to the citizens, and therefore to parliament. this is the goal we can accelerate or slow down. we ask you - and we are proud to be able to trust a strong commission - to do everything in your power in this regard - which is far from negligible - perhaps even more than you can imagine today. we ask you to be very ambitious in this matter, to ensure that the report between the commission and parliament does not end up as a blank page, as you have already said at a meeting with the heads of parliament's groups. it's possible, but it's up to you, it's up to us. we'll do everything we can to help you succeed. all this is also necessary for the implementation of european policies. we accept your commitments on enlargement, even if it, which is now mainly focused on central and eastern europe, should not make us lose sight of the mediterranean policies that europe is called upon to implement. i know that we have much to do, i know that the difficulties may seem insurmountable, but i know that you have all the qualities, the will and the ability to do it. we have to be ambitious, mr president.
- (it) mr president, thanks to tomorrow's vote, the commission chaired by mr prodi will finally be able to begin its work. after hearing the repeated speeches of the president-elect in parliament, after voting for his investiture in may, after participating in the hearings with seriousness and without prejudice to some of the 19 candidate commissioners, our group believes that the long crisis which has affected the commission must be ended by a clear and strong investiture. your own, mr president, and that of the commission, which you have proposed in accordance with the powers conferred on you by the treaty: this is an act which we will carry out without any reservations so that the union can regain a strong executive, renewed, not only in terms of people but also in terms of the prospects for programmes and above all in the way it will deal with the important internal and international policies which need democratic, efficient, transparent institutions which respect mutual autonomy, but which are also cooperative. against this background, i hope that the strategic alliance between parliament and the commission will be restored, although it concerns the different prerogatives. i hope for this strategic alliance because, beyond the political balances of the various institutions, there will be the council, which will have the role of representing governments, on the one hand, and the commission and the european parliament, institutions with a community and federal vocation and thus the driving forces behind integration, on the other. this is the dialectic which must be restored and which recent events have threatened to destroy, although it is clear that it is precisely in this perspective that it is necessary to combat abuses, distortions and inefficiencies. the second report of the independent experts gives us guidelines, many of which were already part of the recommendations of parliament. you yourself have anticipated them with clear commitments, such as the creation of new criteria for the formation of cabinets and greater transparency in relations with the european parliament and with public opinion. i am particularly concerned about one point in the report and i would like to point it out to you, although i do not intend to make too much of it. however, this is a dangerous point, at least as far as corruption is concerned: the pursuit of national interests at the expense of common interests, and this applies to the commission but also, in a different way, to parliament. if we believe that parliament is a place where we can discuss national political conflicts, how can we rebuild a calm, objective, rigorous and sometimes severe relationship with the commission in all credibility? how can we make european policy credible again? we have a number of tasks ahead of us: to tackle the economic and social challenges that follow the introduction of the single currency, to carry out a profound reform of the institutions, to give a concrete meaning to the rights of citizens. on the external front, we have to face other aspects: a strategic vacuum of at least ten years to be filled in relation to the tragedy of the balkan crisis, the resumption of a mediterranean policy supported by the peace process which has regained strength, the dramatic crisis in russia, the defence of human rights and minorities in the world. in conclusion, if the european citizens do not receive convincing answers at the supranational level, it will be difficult to curb the detachment, the disinterest of the citizens towards the institutions which, at this stage, would seem distant, incomprehensible and even expensive. i wish you and your commission, mr prodi, every success and good work in this difficult task.
- (it) mr president, our group has not placed its trust in the commission. this vote is not the result of an aversion to people, to the members of the commission, to the president, but the result of a political evaluation of the programmes. we have listened carefully to the president's repeated statements, to the hearings of the commission members, free of any prejudice. this has enabled us to assess a commitment, which has emerged, to a different relationship between the commission and parliament. after the failure of the previous experiment, a valuable innovation is produced and proposed, which also includes the presentation of an annual report on the state of the union as a commitment: a new method which we appreciate. however, as far as the substance of the programme is concerned, our disagreement could not be more clear. here, on the contrary, the commission seems to want to substantially continue the previous experience and approach. we opposed it yesterday, we oppose it even more today, because continuing today is even more serious if we take into account two new important elements that have come into play: a terrible element, with consequences still ongoing, namely the war in the balkans, and a potential, which could be extended, i have named the constitution of the euro. a new political organization would therefore be necessary, at the level of economic and social policy. the tragedy in east timor falsified the thesis that supported the war in the balkans. the un charter has been violated, international aid has not been respected, the supremacy of the united states alone has caused this war - the assertion of their geopolitical vision - causing a feeling of unease even among old friends of the united states of america like helmut schmidt. with regard to the un, you propose an ambiguous answer, a private answer of emancipation on the military field in relation to the united states, and which does not at all criticize the processes of economic globalization responsible for the important loss of power of european autonomy. you are not proposing any original idea of a new social and political model for europe, which is in danger of becoming a mere discreet copy of the north american model. one thing that strikes me is the commission's lack of a strong and original discourse on culture, mass communications, artistic and cultural production, which are beginning to pose a challenge and are facing a simple, muted resistance on the part of europe to north american penetration. but it is particularly in the economic and social field that your proposals do not convince us. the stability pact is confirmed, you propose a neoliberal approach at the world trade organisation's big meeting. in short, a new monetarist orthodoxy opposed to any proposed attempt to get out of it, for example the proposal of the french government or a minister like mr lafontaine. today we are in the post-euro era and, as the president says, in a recovery phase, but mass unemployment is condemning this orthodox policy. you propose to retain it today in order to pursue the objective of increasing productivity through increased flexibility of work. this does not alleviate the social crisis, but aggravates it. i am afraid, mr president, that this will only accentuate europe's political crisis and the growing detachment of citizens from these institutions.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the long process of nomination is coming to an end. a turbulent period in the life of the union is coming to an end, turbulent from an institutional point of view. this period allowed parliament to express its full potential and to reaffirm its democratic vocation with conviction. in the face of the council, which expresses the will of national governments, and the parliament, which represents the people, we need a strong, responsible commission, responsible for proposing choices that guarantee the aspirations of the european citizens. the commission can be said to be strong if it is able to fulfil its full role of proposing in cooperation with parliament, which wants to be more involved in the preparation of legislative proposals and wants a constant institutional relationship with the commission. this continuous transparent reporting to parliament will prevent the commission from being seen as merely the secretariat of the council and also from undermining parliament and its democratic function. proposing does not mean implementing, but taking initiatives on the basis of the guidelines discussed with parliament. this intention seems to be clear from the statement made by the president-elect, mr prodi. we call on the commission to continue along this path, while continuing to de-bureaucratize. the events which led to the resignation of the previous commission must not happen again. internal reforms and reorganisation must be carried out in accordance with the rules of transparency. the principle of collective responsibility has been reaffirmed, but the responsibility for monitoring individual responsibilities will lie with the president. trade negotiations will soon be opened as part of the millennium cycle. we demand a firm and determined attitude from the commission, we want it to defend, within the framework of the world trade organisation, the supremacy of social rights, the defence of the environment, the protection of the european agricultural model and the consumer in relation to world trade. we want the commission to have the courage to propose the triangulation of aid to developing countries again. preserving and disseminating the culture of the peoples of europe is a common priority. if the commission fulfils this duty with conviction, it will have the support of parliament. one of the most delicate and immediate tasks is to restore the confidence of the citizens, as you said, mr president, in your report; the commission has also been asked to close the gap that the high rate of abstention in the elections has revealed. it is not just a political problem, it is also a social problem, a growing gap between citizens and politics, and this is a phenomenon that is found in all our countries. a complex body such as the european union must maintain a continuous relationship with its citizens, who are the final recipients of all its decisions and policies. the process of unification cannot, however, continue without the conscious participation of citizens, without the elimination of unemployment, without the creation of new economic development. without this deepening, which is the basis of a new institutional structure which will give europe a role in the world, we will be unable to promote peace and justice effectively, or to reconcile the sometimes contradictory demands of north-eastern and south-western europe. the enlargement process must therefore be the subject of a new in-depth debate between our institutions. good luck to you, mr president, to your commission and to parliament! good luck to the europe we must finally build.
- (it) mr president-elect of the commission, we appreciated your report on various aspects: the enlargement of the european union, the reform of the institutions, the strengthening and economic growth of the union as a whole and sustainable development with a view to creating jobs. in your speech, mr president-elect, you stressed a subject which is particularly dear to us: the need for a struggle for european identity, a struggle without which we cannot achieve the ambitious objectives dear to all the peoples of europe, to this parliament and to all the institutions. this fight must be waged jointly by all the european institutions: the council, the commission and the parliament. this struggle is perfect for giving europeans the feeling that they share a common destiny, a common mission, a common identity, a common civilization, a common homeland. our movement, forza italia, the italian people's party and the european people's party, linked to the memory of christendom, will all contribute with all our strength to this struggle.
- ladies and gentlemen, the debate is interrupted at this point to proceed with the vote which was decided this morning. it will be resumed after the vote.
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. - (it) madam president, the first part of the decision of the committee on constitutional affairs is missing from the text of the minutes which has been distributed to us. you read both the first and the second part of this conclusion yesterday in this house. the second part concerns the interpretation of the rules of procedure, to be inserted as a note to the rules of procedure, but the first part says: 'the declaration of the constitution of the technical group of independent members is not in accordance with rule 29 (1) of the rules of procedure'. you had asked us to do this and, of course, you gave us the opportunity to formulate our interpretation in the form of a note to the rules of procedure, which must also be valid for the future. i therefore think that the minutes should also contain the first part of your communication to the house yesterday.
- madam president, i simply want to say that the minutes are well drafted as they are and that it is therefore right that they should only mention the decision on the interpretation of the rules of procedure to be annexed to the rules of procedure themselves. the rest of the provisions decided by the constitutional committee have no place in this text. i therefore propose that the minutes be retained as they are and as they are submitted for our approval.
- we are called upon to vote for or against the minutes and certainly not for or against the consequences of that vote and of a statement by this house. that's all.
- (it) mr president, the world, from kosovo to east timor, needs europe, the europe of the institutions of the union, and the european union, in order to gain the full confidence of its citizens, needs a good relationship between the council, the commission and parliament. mr prodi showed that he was fully aware of these considerations. an institutional crisis would weaken the commission but also the new parliament at a decisive moment for european federalism. our political judgment attaches great importance to the commission's programme to build on the achievements of the past and to deepen the commitment to peace and security, stability and employment, the well-being of all european citizens but also of our neighbours to the west and south. but the method of governance is also important for the commission's investiture, i am referring to the collegiality of action and the behaviour of each commissioner. we believe that mr prodi will be able to exercise his role as president of the commission with authority on this issue as well. the problems we have discussed allow us to express our confidence in what mr prodi has called a 'new start': a common expression which concerns the commission but which, in my opinion, also concerns the new parliament.
- ladies and gentlemen, mr president-designate of the commission, the debate is closed at this point. (the sitting was suspended at 1.02 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- (it) mr president-elect of the commission, if we had to choose between your opponents and their reasons and you today, we would be in a great deal of trouble, we might even have to abstain, if not express a vote of confidence in you, since the arguments put forward in this house by the last communists and milosevic's allies against nato and our countries, the british conservatives and others, seem to us to be so poor and miserable. but we must judge whether or not to express our confidence in you on the basis of your statements and on the basis of what we know about you, independently of those statements. as european federalists, we cannot at all trust you. the political and programmatic horizon you have indicated to us does not mention the urgent institutional problems and the horizon of supranationality. as liberals and free traders, we know, also thanks to the programmatic references you have made, that there is a risk of transferring to europe the post-corporate and post-fascist legacy that has characterized the so-called mixed economy of italian part-cracy. finally, as italians, we fear the reappearance on the continental political scene, in this way, of the distribution of power between parties and parties, which is contrary to any notion of the rule of law, to any real feeling of a europe which implies revolution and reform in the field of freedom and law, as well as progress in this direction. that is why we are confident to say, together with the other members of the bonino list, that we are voting against and that we are clearly refusing to trust you.
mr prodi, on behalf of the italian socialists, i hope that parliament will express its full and unreserved confidence in you. the theft only lasted too long. we need a strong commission. moreover, without an influential government, parliament too is in danger of being lost. the road to recovery could not be more difficult: the crisis of the previous commission erupted at a time when europe was in deep trouble. and if it had not been for emma bonino, who dealt with the tragedy of the balkans, the commission would simply not have existed. however, the citizens and peoples of europe still feel that they are fragile, if not powerless. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. you have spoken more of the europe of the peoples than of the europe of the institutions: in the vision and sensibility of the peoples, europe already forms a single bloc from the atlantic to the ural mountains, from the tundra to anatolia. the first objective you rightly highlighted concerns the enlargement of the union to the states which are ready and then you classified the forms of cooperation by defining concentric circles of potential accession of the closer states but not yet ready to join the union. you have therefore spoken of a partnership with russia and ukraine and of a cultural partnership with all the mediterranean countries. you have crowned all these circles with a common and strengthened leadership with the united states of america. mr president, are you sure that this will is shared on the other side of the atlantic? you have certainly read the statements made yesterday by the american minister of defence, who already defines the limits of the european common defence. and yet mr pesc is no more than the former secretary-general of nato: nato, whose borders already extend to warsaw and budapest, while those of the union have stopped at berlin. enlargement is the real priority, but it will not be without problems, and it affects not only others but the union itself. i am not just thinking of the disproportion between more demanding objectives and tighter budgets. we must work hand in hand - commission, parliament and council - on those aspects which can provide a more solid basis and new impetus: european citizenship, a charter of rights, a real constitution. this joint work will enable us to expand without losing our strength, to give a soul to the europe of the market and the single currency, and to regain the confidence of citizens and peoples. what good would free movement within a single border be if 15 different immigration and asylum laws still exist? what would be the point of a single parliament formed on the basis of 15 different forms of voting? a new frontier to the south, a common citizenship: that is the perspective i ask you to develop by january.
- (it) mr president-elect, when i listened to your report this morning, i was suddenly startled when you said: 'the pensioners are here'. i thought he saw me, but you turned your back on me. i thank you, mr president, for involuntarily quoting me, because i have come to the european parliament as the leader of the party of pensioners, present for the first time in this parliament to represent the requests of the elderly. i am therefore encouraged by mr prodi's statement that he will take account of the problems of pensioners, and by the results we will achieve in the coming years. i would like to say in particular that i, and the pensioners who have sent me to this post no 270 of the european parliament, appreciate the comment of the commissioner-designate, mrs anna diamantopoulou, who, in answering one of my questions during the hearings - the negatives of which must be emphasized but also the positives - said that she was taking due account of the problems of the elderly who are waiting for a pension which the 15 member states are no longer able to pay because the pension funds are limited and have deficits. the elderly are living too long: all right, we will do everything we can, with our supporters, to make our lives as short as possible, but i fear that it is not enough. i hope therefore that the european parliament and the commission will finally make their voices heard so that the elderly in the 15 member states receive the respect they deserve and above all rules to keep intact the amount they are obliged to pay each month in order to receive a pension tomorrow.
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the participants in the tampere summit will remember that migration, which is by no means repressed, is the basis of human history and, in the long run, the precondition for our collective salvation. we hope that on this basis they will be inspired, in the attempt to create a common space of freedom, security and justice, by the principles of solidarity and inclusion and not try to create a community europe, peaceful and prosperous within and impenetrable to those who press from outside, driven by hunger, war and social deprivation. inner peace and well-being will not last long because the resignation of the surrounding world that lives in insecurity, need and chaos will not last either. it would be hypocritical to make the fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia a fundamental principle of community europe and then, in practice, to implement policies of exclusion which comfort the citizens of the union in their fear of being contaminated by people different from us. how are they different? that is a thought we gladly leave to the racists. we would also like the area of freedom, security and justice to be geared to raising the level of guarantees for all - both for citizens of the union and for those outside the community - and instead of limiting ourselves to stating the formal guarantees we should also think about achieving the substantial guarantees, such as those in the field of labour, social security, personal freedom, equality between men and women and so many others that are being sacrificed today on the altar of competition: global competition, so dear to the commission and its president. this neoliberal strategy is a typical exclusionary strategy. it also makes us sceptical about the tampere summit, and we would be naive to hope that our scepticism will be refuted.
- (it) madam president, after the problem of employment, the most urgent request that european citizens make to the community institutions is the following: to deal with the urgent question of security, which, given its characteristics, cannot be solved autonomously by the individual member states. to do this we need maximum commitment, also to strengthen the confidence of european citizens in parliament. however, the idea of proposing a charter of fundamental rights for citizens is not, in my view, sufficient. we already have many written declarations, often not implemented. what we need is a practical willingness to take all the necessary steps to ensure real judicial and police cooperation. the absence of a european strategy on immigration, both for the management of legal migration flows and for all problems related to illegal immigration, is, in my view, unacceptable at the moment. in conclusion, the idea of a europe which is not just a single market and a single currency, but above all a europe which is an area of freedom, security and justice, is very nice. however, it is important to meet this challenge effectively by means of a gradual strengthening of the community institutions and by enhancing cooperation and collaboration between member states, rather than by recourse to qualified majority decisions which, in themselves, do not solve the problem.
- madam president, our parliament, without realizing it, is not lacking in humour. in the watson resolution he is convinced that the european citizens are tired of proclamations and grand declarations, and in the napolitano resolution he is proposing nothing less than a grand exercise in style, jumping on the dog's tailbone that the council has given us with the drafting of this great charter of fundamental rights. we already have a charter, the european convention on human rights, we have constitutions, but, as a number of colleagues have pointed out, we do not have third pillar communitization, we do not have a democratic policy in foreign affairs. so let's keep going in that direction. i think that this great exercise of mental masturbation will follow others, of which the european parliament was a regular part. for two or three years, or perhaps a little less, our parliament will be debating this great charter, affirming its european conception of human rights, when we know that the chinese have another. we will then only encourage these mechanisms. we will talk a lot and we will talk a lot, as some colleagues have done - and i regret that mr schulz later lowered the debate by leaving the sitting - but i would like to say that perhaps our parliament should ask itself about its democracy. yesterday we saw - and i thank the 90 members who rejected this logic - the denial, once again, of the rights of minorities in this parliament. so we can gargle on minorities all over the world, we can keep going in that direction. but perhaps we should start to realise that the european construction is based on such undemocratic foundations that many of the countries of the world, which we often criticize, have nothing to envy to the so-called democratic system we have today. so perhaps we should go back to the essentials, refuse the council's offer of a dog's bone and start asking for fundamental reforms, including the reform we must ask ourselves, so that this parliament becomes a real parliament and not the instrument of bureaucracies, as it is becoming more and more.
- (it) madam president, the motion for a resolution contains, in my view, all the assessments and proposals which parliament should approve in order to make a timely contribution to the tampere council's implementation of the solemn promises made to the european citizens in the treaty of amsterdam. the aim is simple: to achieve together what each member state would do less well on its own. no one is under any illusion that the member states alone can effectively combat organized crime, whose frauds cross borders and which is involved in the cruel trafficking of children, women and refugees. we must work hand in hand, but any extension of the union's powers in the field of crime prevention and repression must be done in a context where each person has the guarantee that his own rights will also be respected. there is no freedom without security, but there is no security without justice. justice means first of all respect for the principle of equality, the principle of non-discrimination, respect for the equal dignity of each person, respect for diversity. the union's policy must be based on this principle. the proposed document is based on this principle. we know that the member states are resistant - although not all of them declare it - to this matter which traditionally falls within national competence. but the resistance, the non-execution and the delay have only the effect of causing harm, and we have no time for referrals. the enlargement of the union to include the new applicant countries requires, on the contrary, the immediate opening of negotiations with a view to the gradual adoption of common measures and adequate guarantee standards. i hope that the finnish presidency, whose statements i appreciated this morning, will seek to take credit for having started to fulfil the promises contained in the treaty of amsterdam.
- (it) madam president, the decision of the cologne council to draw up a charter of fundamental rights will involve our parliament in a long and complex work. the nature of this charter, its content, the relationship between the charter of rights and the constitutionalisation process of the union will have to be discussed. these topics will be the subject of a report which the committee on constitutional affairs will prepare, in collaboration with other committees, in the coming months and which it will present to you all in plenary. at the moment, however, it is urgent to take a position on the procedure to be followed for the drawing up of this charter. that is the limited but important objective of the resolution which mr watson and i have tabled. parliament must say today, before the council decides on the constitution of the body responsible for drawing up the draft charter, that it cannot accept that the number of representatives in the european parliament be less than that of the representatives of the heads of state or government of the member states. it should also request careful consultation before deciding whether the essential contribution of national parliaments should be ensured through the participation of a number of their representatives in the envisaged body or through other more effective channels. i now make a personal comment on the fight against crime and the challenge of immigration. my experience as minister of the interior in italy tells me that it is essential to speed up the creation of common regulations and policies, the exact opposite of invoking purely national policies. and as far as immigration and asylum are concerned, the best basis is the document produced by the austrian presidency in autumn 1998.
counsel. - (fi) madam president, unfortunately i cannot answer all the questions in the time available, but we have noted them and, as the discussions and preparations continue, i will try, by all available means, to take account of the ideas contained therein and to provide you with more answers. the question raised by many speakers concerning the preparation of the charter of fundamental rights is of course indirectly related to the tampere meeting, since we are preparing to take a further step forward in ensuring that the people of the european union have a safer space than before, but the preparation of the fundamental rights dossier is not the actual subject of the tampere discussions. a special body will be set up for this purpose, in which the european parliament will be represented. as regards the representation of the european parliament in tampere, you are no doubt aware that mrs fontaine will be present at the beginning of the meeting, that we are also aware of your resolution and that the discussions here will also be taken into account. i have selected a few of the questions that were raised during this session and will now answer them. firstly, mr pirker's question on the immigration strategy: it is an important basis for the discussions in tampere, but there is still no unanimity in the council on this. that is why we will of course be discussing it in tampere, but no document is ready yet. as regards the eurodac regulation, we are trying to get it approved now, during our presidency, but as you will no doubt know, we are awaiting a new opinion from the european parliament on this subject. as regards mr watson's question on respect for the right of asylum and cooperation with the unhcr, we are in full agreement. it is on this basis that i have built my speech. i fully agree with you that europe must not close itself off from the outside world, but must be open to it. we are present at the un, the council of europe, the osce and this is how we can create natural relations with the outside world. as regards mr wuori's question, i would like to say briefly that finland respects transparency, and although mr wuori has never been a member of the finnish parliament, he is certainly aware that in finland, as in other member states, the national parliament has a certain degree of autonomy, so that a member of the government cannot intervene in such a matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not exposed to the dangers of the internet. finland has considered the current control to be acceptable as long as we have not made further progress, but afterwards the control system will have to be developed. i also note his remark about electronic systems and i promise to look into it. to the question of mr schulz and other speakers on the legal area and fundamental rights, i would like to reply that i have stressed that the area of freedom, security and justice must be built on the basis of common values, respect for human rights and greater integration. i would like to mention one more thing. i am very pleased that many speakers have said that we must not make the european union a fortress, but rather a safe area that will have a natural relationship with its environment. i would like to remind you once again that the european union is not the same as europe and that the world outside the european union is not only poverty, hunger and despair. there are problems, of course, but there are also countries with a very high level of civilization and who are willing to cooperate with us. i would like to give as examples norway, iceland and switzerland. i would also like to remind you that our task is to work in the united nations as well as in the osce and the council of europe. the principle of democracy is that humans are not just objects of power, they are also subjects of power, and we must remember this when building cooperative relationships with them. within the european union, we really do not always need new directives. often it is simply a matter of complying with decisions already made. it is also a question of strengthening and implementing in practice the valid un or council of europe agreements and of inducing other member countries to do the same. i may have listened with a little more sensitive ear than usual to your complaints about the lack of cooperation following the plane crash in greece, but i would like to assure you on behalf of the council that in the european union we must have confidence in each other that national democracy is here, in your midst, complementing the european union's own democracy. i am sure that they are the right combination, as many speakers have said, to enable us in the future to draw up the charter of fundamental rights and to take the tampere meeting and its principles further, and not just to make declarations, so that we can also make progress in practical matters. i hope i can also gain your trust in this case.
counsel. - (fi) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has from the outset supported the efforts of portugal and indonesia to achieve a lasting solution for east timor, under the auspices of the united nations, which would be accepted by the international community and based on the right of self-determination of the east timorese people. the union is continuing its determined action to achieve this objective. in the general affairs council decision of april 1999, we asked the commission to prepare economic and social programmes to improve the availability of facilities for the establishment of institutions in east timor. the east timorese's enthusiasm for the elections is worthy of respect, as we all know. the general affairs council said on monday that the east timorese deserve our full support in the future as well. we are ready to recognise east timor as soon as the un-led independence process has been successfully completed. i would like to thank unamet (the united nations mission in east timor) for the tireless work of its staff in carrying out the referendum in very difficult circumstances. at the same time i would like to say that i am grateful to mr andrews, the irish foreign minister, who was the president's personal representative in observing the vote in east timor, and to mr cook, the british foreign minister, who represented the president at the apec meeting. we wanted the council of ministers to be represented at these events, although the president was unable to attend because of his obligations arising from the plenary session of parliament. i would also like to thank the delegation of european parliament observers and all those who took part in the observation of the vote: the international presence was very important in the success of the vote. i believe they helped create a climate of security which was still present during the vote. we were all afraid of trouble. the terror that began after the vote, however, was surprisingly violent. throughout the crisis, the union has exerted strong pressure on the indonesian government to fulfil its obligations to ensure security and to keep the situation in east timor under control. i think we're on the right track, but we still have a long way to go. relieving human suffering and mobilizing international peacekeeping forces are the most urgent things and they now have priority. the sooner the peacekeepers get there, the better. that is why the european union is pursuing its own policy of pressure to make this happen. the second very urgent thing is the rapid delivery of humanitarian aid. the most difficult situation is currently faced by the refugees who have fled to the mountains, as well as by east timorese who have been moved to west timor and, in part, settled in camps. some estimates put the number of refugees at between 200,000 and 400,000. it also shows that estimates of the situation are very vague. we do not have accurate information about the events because the outside representatives of the international community do not have access to the area. these people are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance. intergovernmental organisations, as well as non-governmental organisations, participate in un-coordinated relief activities. the indonesian authorities announced that the doors were open to international aid, but that they could not guarantee the safety of humanitarian personnel. a large-scale aid operation can only be undertaken when humanitarian organisations have free and safe access to the region. this can only be done with the help of international peacekeeping forces, but we have already demanded again that humanitarian aid be able to reach the area immediately. several countries are prepared to participate in the delivery of humanitarian aid. stocks are being counted and deliveries are being arranged. the eu has eight million euro for humanitarian aid in east timor, making it the largest single donor. representatives of echo (european community's humanitarian organisation) participated in the assessment of aid needs with the indonesian authorities and international organisations. i hope that the commission will be able to give us more precise information on its plans. humanitarian aid will probably be airlifted and basic necessities such as food, medicine, blankets and cooking supplies will be parachuted into areas where refugees are known to be. experts say that for safety reasons, parachuting will initially be done by hercules transport planes, which will be one and a half kilometers high, making it difficult to reach the destination safely. however, every effort must be made to ensure that the aid is sufficient in this phase. security will only really improve when international troops arrive. the union has always stressed and demanded that indonesia be responsible for law and order and security, but as we have seen, the indonesian authorities have unfortunately not taken care of their contractual obligations in this regard. indonesia has now agreed to the arrival of international peacekeeping forces in the region and i have just learned that the un security council has unanimously decided to send peacekeepers to east timor. we assume that indonesia will continue to cooperate well with the security council. we are working to get the troops on the ground as quickly as possible. i would like to add that i have personally tried to contact the member states of the union, in particular portugal, our representation in indonesia and the united nations secretary-general, mr kofi annan, by telephone, and i hope that in the future the possibilities for closer cooperation will be improved. i would also like to mention the seriousness of the acts of terrorism and the climate of fear in east timor. indonesia has failed to live up to its commitments to ensure order and security in the region, and many believe that it has no desire to do so either. arbitrariness has prevailed in the region. we have evidence that the indonesian military and police have been involved in acts of terror on the island. according to humanitarian workers from the international community, representatives of the icrc (international committee of the red cross) and human rights organizations were forced to leave the scene so that the abuses could be carried out without the presence of outside witnesses. the council expressed its anger on this matter the day before yesterday, as well as on the attacks directed against east timorese, humanitarian workers, church representatives and human rights defenders. we in the council supported the proposal of the committee on human rights to convene an extraordinary session on east timor. we will also take steps to ensure that a commission of inquiry is sent to the region as soon as possible to gather evidence of the acts of terrorism committed after the referendum, in order to establish responsibility. the general affairs council accepted the conclusions on the activities of the union the day before yesterday and decided on a common position reinforcing them, providing for a very broad embargo on exports to indonesia of arms, ammunition and other instruments of internal oppression and terror. bilateral military cooperation between the member states and indonesia was also suspended. this common position will be in force for four months and will be renewed if necessary. while we are working for the realization of the right of self-determination of east timor and its people, we must also be concerned about the future development of indonesia. the general affairs council stressed the union's desire to see a strong, democratic and united indonesia. democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are the cornerstones on which indonesia can build. we shall support any attitude which is consistent with a democratic society in an international community.
- (it) madam president, i would just like to convey to you and to our assembly some urgent and useful information. i would like to inform you that in rome the third parliamentary group, consisting of 130 members, includes members of parliament who are to the right of le pen and to the left of cossutta. we have compared the decisions taken yesterday: we are not monkeys who will do what a parliamentary party wants us to do! emma bonino will then explain, in the name of the political affinity of those who have faith in parliaments, in democracy, in the law and who abhor party politics, bureaucracy and falsehood, why we do not and will not vote. emma bonino will have time to explain.
- (it) madam president, i rise on behalf of the seven radical members to thank the non-attached members for allowing me to speak. mr president of the commission, we - the seven radicals - expressed our position yesterday, but we did not take part in the previous vote and we will not take part in the next votes until, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the dignity, the right and the duty of the member of parliament as such has been resolved by parliament. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, with yesterday's unprecedented decision you decided that there are first-class members, your own, from your own group, good members, who are part of your bureaucracies and who like to share and distribute, and that there are also bad members, namely me, us, who are simply independent of your bureaucracies and your partizraties. this is not right. it is not right for the elected officials, but, my dear baron crespo, it is not right for the electors. you decided that there were first-class voters and second-class voting citizens. we can never accept that. today, the battle begins. and what hypocrisy, what conformity, my dear colleagues! you italians live in a country where there is a mixed group in parliament, the second group, which includes members from the far right and the far left, including the greens, and everything is going well. but when you come here to vote, you vote the way you just did! you, the members of parliament in your national parliaments, have no problem with the distribution of public funds. but what hypocrites you are doing by putting sticks in the wheels. but why? to prevent us from doing our parliamentary work. since we are troublesome members of parliament, members who do not please you, we will not be able to table any amendments or resolutions. in short, you're giving us the freedom to press a button. my dear colleagues, i will not obey. the seven radical members will not accept this absurd manoeuvre. look at them, your groups! the group is a working instrument: look at them, they have no political position. three groups stood up to declare that they had no common political position. so, ladies and gentlemen, the groups are only used to distribute funds and officials more effectively. parliament must put an end to this. today we are renewing the struggle for the dignity, the legality, the rule of law, the rights and duties of the parliament elected by the citizens. these citizens elected us as they elected you and they have the same rights and duties and the same dignity as you. i hope that many of you, ladies and gentlemen, will defend the dignity of parliament and its members against bureaucracy and parti-cracy. this is the new struggle which will occupy us until parliament has restored the rights and duties of the elected representatives by creating a mixed group. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - (it) the parliamentary group of which i am a member has decided to vote against president prodi. i share very much the concerns and reservations expressed by the majority of my group in this parliament about the commission's programme and composition. however, i do not share the decision to vote against. i know romano prodi well and i greatly appreciate his leadership skills and his democratic objectives. president prodi was head of the italian government at a crucial stage in italy's entry into europe. i was then a determined supporter of his work in the government and fought valiantly to prevent his centre-left government from falling into crisis - just a year ago - because of the initiative of the political group led by mr bertinotti. i didn't deny him my trust then, and i don't intend to deny him it now. romano prodi was proposed as president of the commission by the present government of the italian republic, in which my party is actively involved. i believe that the strength of his personality is capable of ensuring a sound leadership of the commission, overcoming the limitations and inadequacies of its programme and its composition. we, the italian communist members of parliament, therefore, disagree with the positions expressed by the majority of the gue/ngl parliamentary group, of which we are a part, and we express a reasoned and vigilant abstention.
- (it) the tragic events in east timor have demonstrated the cowardice and opportunism of the international community. we must have the courage, after the clear result of the referendum, to apply without further delay the principle of self-determination of the peoples by recognizing the independence of east timor, without waiting for the problematic concession from indonesia. i am particularly pleased to address this invitation to the governments of the 15 member states of the european union. moreover, through the application of this principle, the intervention of an international peacekeeping force could be considered not as an interference with indonesian sovereignty, but as an aid by the international community to an independent and sovereign state.
- mr president, it is not in the spirit of sterile recrimination but because of our concern about the way the situation is developing that we feel obliged to recall and emphasize the direct and indirect responsibility of the united states of america for these massacres, this ethnic cleansing, which is continuing in east timor at the moment without losing its intensity. we share some of the relief that many felt when the clinton administration, apparently changing its mind, finally criticized the jakarta government and let the un take control of the crisis. those in this house who are not familiar with the role of washington in the tragedies in indonesia and timor, from 1966 to the last genocide by the military on 30 august, should read the analysis published today by the washington post and the herald tribune in five columns: "the pentagon is defending itself: contacts with the indonesian military are useful". this reminds us of the close personal friendship between the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff, general henry shelton, and the butcher of jakarta, general wiranto. the man at the top of the us military pyramid supports and encourages violence in east timor and asked his indonesian friend on monday to accept the intervention of an international peacekeeping force. mrs halonen said this morning that the terror unleashed on 30 august had taken the council by surprise. it shouldn't have been. we suggest that, in order to avoid future surprises, parliament and the council should monitor very closely the un peacekeeping missions, the european humanitarian aid plans, the integrity of any present or future programme aimed at ending the suffering of the people of timor and guaranteeing their full independence and sovereignty, free from any threat, interference or pressure from the indonesian military and their american mentors.
- mr president, we were right to ask for this urgent debate. the united nations security council adopted a decision yesterday which i hope will be up to the task and up to the gravity of the situation. three or four weeks passed between the beginning of the massacres and this decision. it's too much, of course. but i would like to point out, since we have been talking a lot about hypocrisy in this chamber, that in other cases we have lost not a month but years. this year we had the same case in kosovo. and many of the colleagues who have come forward to call, to cry out for military intervention were those who were previously against any military intervention in kosovo. if a different international law is to emerge, with a real duty of intervention at its core, not because indonesia is right-wing or is allied with clinton, while milosevic is supposedly left-wing, but a real right of intervention as we see it emerging, we must learn from it to put the right of the individual before the right of the peoples, and to ensure that such massacres cannot be repeated in the future.
- (it) mr president, let me read a few lines: in 1975 indonesia took control of timor, setting in motion an oppression which resulted in the disappearance of a third of the population through hunger, epidemics, war and terror. this is not a journalistic caption, a summary, but the statement announcing the award of the nobel prize on 11 november 1996 to ximenes belo and josé ramos horta. i am referring to the fact that the holocaust in east timor, which killed 250,000 people, of whom 10,000 died in the last few weeks, has already entered history. our institution and no european citizen can afford to be shocked by this holocaust: we have no right to be shocked, we have lost our innocence once and for all. for many years, the international community has allowed so-called development dictatorships to survive, from indonesia to the chile of the chicago boys, to china, to korea, countries where we have tolerated - in the name of macroeconomics - that market reasons prevail over human rights reasons. we tolerated intolerance and violence. i would like to see our own responsibility not added to that of the international community. i am glad that the council has decided on a common position, a symbolic four-month embargo on arms, ammunition and military equipment. i hope that this embargo will be extended to the current deliveries so that we do not add our own regrets to the regrets of tomorrow. i would also like to make it clear that my indignation is indifferent at this moment to the language spoken by the people of east timor. what i think is a problem is that for 25 years the people of east timor have not had a voice. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, i shall avoid adding to what many members have quite rightly said so far on the subject of east timor. i have a question in this connection: what does it mean to build peace without opportunism? it has been 24 years since this tragedy, 24 years since the international community avoided imposing economic sanctions, so what does "doing everything" mean now? i therefore join the request already made in this house and also made by the senate of my country that the european governments and the un recognize the sovereignty of east timor as soon as possible and that this problem is not dealt with exclusively in this house. this is a great honour for the portuguese colleagues and for colleagues from certain other nations. i would like to add one more point. we owe east timor 24 years, and another fact: these days there are demonstrations in favour of east timor, but no one is considering the political hypothesis that we will have to ask the united states again about the possibility of military intervention. this forces us to re-examine the subject of the common defence policy. a final remark: we can still take positive action in favour of east timor, and we can do so immediately and with determination. the credibility of our institution will depend heavily on this, and not just on the approval of the commissioners.
counsel. -(fi) mr president, the fight for the abolition of the death penalty is an essential element of the european union's general human rights policy. in june 1998 the council adopted guidelines for community policy towards third countries on issues related to the death penalty. the ultimate objective of the european union is to achieve the abolition of the death penalty in all countries of the world. to this end, the council urges all countries still applying the death penalty to establish a moratorium on the execution of these sentences and requires that minimum standards be observed. it also calls on states to adhere to international legal instruments prohibiting the death penalty. in line with the guidelines it has adopted, the european union took the initiative by presenting for the first time a draft resolution on the death penalty at the 55th session of the un commission on human rights in geneva this year. this initiative was particularly successful, the content was more direct than that of previous resolutions and, moreover, it received more supporters - 72 - than in 1998, when there were 65. on the occasion of the meeting of the commission on human rights, the european union also organised a debate meeting on the death penalty, which was attended by ngos and government representatives from different countries. the council has just decided to continue its policy of raising the issue of the death penalty in multilateral fora and has decided to present for the first time a proposal for a resolution on the death penalty to the 54th session of the united nations general assembly. the council is convinced that this initiative will further strengthen the international movement towards the abolition of the death penalty.
- mr president, first of all, i would like to ask you to look a little to the left and right of the house because i had indicated first that i wished to ask a supplementary question earlier and as you did not see me, i was unable to do so. i thank the finnish presidency for its work at the united nations on the abolition of the death penalty, and i am very pleased to know that, thanks to the finnish presidency - and not only, of course - we will have a resolution in new york this year. the whole problem, i think, is the question of the text of the assembly. i have been informed that this text is modelled on the text adopted in geneva. the only major defect is that it does not provide for successive deadlines by which the initiative to institute the moratorium could be implemented by means of a treaty or other institutional initiative. could the council presidency give me further information on this? what kind of possible timetable does the council have in mind for this initiative to be put into practice?
counsel. -{}}} mr president, like the honourable member, the council is gravely concerned about the human rights violations that have occurred in the democratic republic of korea, particularly those of political prisoners, and also about the failure to respect the principles of the rule of law and the refusal of the authorities to cooperate with international human rights organisations. the european union also considers that the north korean difficulties are mainly structural and that it is itself responsible for them. in view of the evolution of the regime in the dprk and the path largely chosen by the dprk itself, the european union is in favour of giving north korea the opportunity to respond positively to this commitment. the european union conducted its first political dialogue with the democratic republic of korea in december 1998. it is prepared to hold a second similar meeting later this year, depending on the progress made by the dprk in the various areas where the european union considers the situation to be of concern. on this point, the european union urged the dprk to fully respect the commitments of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and to sign and ratify a nuclear test ban treaty. the democratic republic of korea should stop its missile flight tests, which are undermining the stability of the region. the european union urges the dprk to cease exports of missiles and missile technology to unstable and sensitive regions of the world. the european union is also very concerned about possible new missile tests. it invites third countries in its political contacts to try to influence the dprk to respect all these commitments. on 19 july, the council of the european union adopted important resolutions on a commission communication on the republic of korea. the resolutions also address the situation on the korean peninsula and the european union's concerns, which i have mentioned before.
- mr president, mr council representative, i believe that it is not enough for the european union to be concerned. she should be dealing with north korea. it is obviously a distant country but it is nevertheless true that the regime in place is literally criminal; the union should work to overthrow this regime, otherwise we will be forced, as in the case of kosovo or other regions, to use great means. there is an effort of imagination, of imagination to be made and that is what i invite the council to do. it would be possible to do "subversion" in the best sense of the word and to do information for the citizens of north korea so that they do not feel isolated. the united nations could launch a major diplomatic initiative to completely isolate north korea. we could parachute a number of things since we have the military and technical means to do so. i would like to know whether the council is prepared to consider a number of such measures in order to overthrow this literally criminal regime, which would prevent us from mourning 30 or 40 years after the tragedy, as in the case of the soviet union.
counsel. -{} mr president, i would like to stress that finland, as the country holding the presidency, will act with determination and firmness so that the european union does everything possible to ensure respect for human rights in the world. but the european union cannot be the policeman of the world, and this also limits our possibilities for more radical solutions in relation to north korea. i would like to make it quite clear, however, that the north korean government has consistently and gravely violated the fundamental rights of the human person and that democratization of the regime would be desirable. we were asked to be creative, and that's why we tried to find positive ways to change the north korean regime. however, positive means alone do not easily bring about change, and of course the problem that may arise is that such positive means only strengthen the existing regime.
- it is precisely for these reasons, mr president-in-office, that i believe other solutions must be devised. some colleagues, like the greek colleague who preceded me, think that we have discovered north korea from kosovo: rest assured, we have been dealing with this for a long time. there are other means than military means which we must try to avoid, and therefore the imaginative effort of the european union must be directed towards the invention of other systems. for example, we could invest ecu 5 million to create a radio station for the people of north korea. is the council prepared to work on such a scenario? we could drop food aid, spread information to the people of north korea so that they can give themselves the means to resist, to oppose this criminal regime. otherwise, as the greek member of parliament fears, we will be forced to resort to military means, because the tragedy will have become more widespread. i think we need to use our imagination. but unfortunately i don't hear many answers to that.
- (it) mr president, i would first of all like to join mrs pack in expressing her regret at the council's attitude in adopting a position on the regulation in question in advance. the attitude we have seen does not seem to reflect the spirit and direction of parliament's first amendment to the 1998 directive or its resolution of last july. i share the objections to the choice of the seat of the agency in question - pristina, in our view, and not thessaloniki - and those relating to the unilateral possibility, it seems - in the council's view, therefore - of extending the activities of the agency to other regions of the federal republic of yugoslavia without any prior consultation of parliament, at a time when parliament is given the task of verifying, on a quarterly basis, the activities carried out and of administrative control, even a posteriori. i do not understand, however, why parliament should, when composing the agency's management board, provide for the commission alone to appoint seven independent experts. this is in contradiction with the proposals put forward by the commission itself, which, in agreement with the committee which assists it, has instead provided for the presence of a representative from each member state. it is not appropriate, in my view, for parliament to paradoxically exclude the member states which make up the european union from a decision-making context, a context which, before being operational, is primarily political. this is to say that it is not a question of seeking a preventive control over the orientation of the overall aid proposed, even if the total amount of eur 1 900 million for the next five years would advise doing so.
- (it) mr president, the commission's report on the creation of the kosovo reconstruction agency takes account of the positive developments because it seeks to draw on the experience of previous reconstruction actions in other parts of europe. i think it is an opportunity not only to draw attention to the main issues, namely that this agency can work on the basis of the principles of transparency and efficiency which are the essential element in the current situation in the balkans, but i think it is important and it should be emphasized that today we must ask ourselves the question of rebuilding a social, economic and moral fabric in a context where a broader vision of south-eastern europe certainly cannot be a divisive element in relation to the choice of the headquarters of the agency in one city rather than another. having listened to the speeches of other members, i think that there is a fair, legitimate problem and the question: 'what is the interest of the member state, which certainly cannot be a priority interest?' we must also consider another problem: what is the collateral damage to the actions and events in kosovo that has been caused in other countries that, in the context of the european union, have suffered from proximity? whole regional economies have collapsed in recent months because of the closure of airports, the events related to the war in kosovo in several member states. i am thinking in particular of the southern regions of italy. i therefore believe that it is important to carry out a more complete evaluation, also in the light of a policy of assistance which, as i read in the report on the union budget for next year, provides for a major revision of the policy of attention to small and mediumsized enterprises present within the crossborder territory. in my view, this is a real problem in the search for a condition which will enable us to verify the possibility of inserting a more complete assessment in the mediterranean context and which will lead above all to a broad perspective in this respect. it is not a question of resolving a dispute over the seat of the agency by a policy of settling it, but of defining the choices of substance. as for the speed, efficiency and transparency of the agency's action, it is essential to try to see this meeting as a good opportunity not only to make the reconstruction of kosovo a priority to be achieved in a short time, but also to create the conditions for looking at the problem of migration flows in the mediterranean with particular attention. thousands of refugees are now stranded on our shores with no purpose, while the member states and the european union are totally incapable of providing a concrete perspective and response to this problem. this is the main issue that i think we should focus on in order to avoid having to assess situations similar to those in kosovo in the coming years.
- (it) mr president, i very much appreciated the rapporteur's dry and vigorous style and the punctuality of commissioner kinnock's reply. this is not the time for emphatic speeches, and europe's response to the kosovo crisis through the reconstruction agency is a concrete, operational response. i would define the agency as it stands by four adjectives: agile, efficient, transparent and autonomous. it will not last forever and must include local communities. it will have to ensure that the public is as well informed as possible, also through regular dissemination on the internet. on the question of the siege, i agree with the wise point of encounter proposed by mr swoboda; i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the council will be able to take the initiative in this matter. how can we play our part in various crisis regions, not just kosovo, without a review of the financial frameworks? by scraping money from one place to another in a haphazard manner? it may be appropriate, in the right context, to start a reflection on this point. i believe that the mediterranean in particular deserves adequate financial attention. it is in the mediterranean that the destiny of a new era based on harmony, peace and international cooperation is being played out. (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, the era of peace and prosperity to which arafat and other israeli leaders have referred since 1993, after the oslo agreements, has not yet arrived. the resumption of the peace process after the netanyahu government, the election of barak and the new agreement signed in sharm el-sheikh are undoubtedly a step forward from the mists of the past after the assassination of prime minister rabin, but the road is still difficult before a stable and lasting peace is achieved and before the palestinians can live, as sanctioned by un resolutions, in a palestinian state which i hope will be democratic and will be able to coexist peacefully with the state of israel. the problems are still numerous: 70% of the west bank-gaza territory is still occupied by the military; the status of jerusalem is not yet defined; the jewish settlements, the confiscation of land and water; the number of political prisoners, which still stands at over 2 200; the question of the palestinian refugees of the first exodus of 1948 and 1967, who number about four million. without a positive response to these problems, peace will always be in danger. the european union and in particular the european parliament have always expressed their unconditional support for the efforts to promote the middle east peace process and to provide assistance to the region. in its march 1999 resolution on the peace process and future assistance in the middle east, the european parliament rightly stressed that even if the wye plantation agreements were confirmed - and they were - the most important problems still had to be resolved, among them in particular the status of refugees. for this reason, the commission has recognised the need for continued and rigorous support for refugees and has approved the tenth ec-unrwa convention covering the years 1999-2001 - which has been submitted to the european parliament and represents an important contribution to this end. the proposed convention, like the previous nine signed after 1972, sets the ec contribution to the budget of the agency's regular programmes for the next three years (1999-2001) and also provides for annual negotiations on the european contribution to the food aid budget. of course, the content of food aid will be the subject of separate negotiations. unrwa is requesting a total contribution of eur 120.82 million for the period up to 2001. part of this contribution is intended to support unrwa's education programmes. in the health programme, the bulk of it will be allocated to the education programme. the regular programme of unrwa is aimed at some 3 500 000 palestinians living in jordan, syria, lebanon, jordan, the west bank and the gaza strip and, as i said earlier, provides assistance in vital social sectors. in order to take account of the changing political situation in the region, article 6 of the convention stipulates that, by the end of 2000, the parties will review the situation of refugees and evaluate possible plans by unrwa to transfer its functions to the palestinian authority. since the palestinian authority controls only the west bank and gaza, special attention must be paid to the work of unrwa in support of the refugees still living in syria, lebanon and jordan and in all the countries where they are counted. in these circumstances, i would like to stress once again that the refugee problem has not only not been solved, but is getting worse by the day, as i have seen during my recent visits to refugee camps in lebanon, jordan and syria and in the various reports of unrwa and mr menendez del valle as the european union's representative for humanitarian aid in jordan. it is therefore essential that this ec-unrwa convention be adopted and implemented as soon as possible. this is particularly important in view of the current crisis affecting unrwa's budget. austerity measures were taken by cutting off several funds for teachers, hospitals and medical supplies, which caused a strong protest in the palestinian refugee camps. a final question: while stressing the need to continue to provide humanitarian aid through unrwa, i believe that the european parliament has a particular interest in finding a just and equitable political solution to the problem of the palestinian refugees, a solution which is in line with un resolution 194. in this connection, i believe that maximum efforts must be made to invite the relevant forces in the region, in particular the israeli and palestinian authorities, to contribute to this solution. the committee on budgets has proposed two amendments in favour of greater transparency, which we support. finally, there is the legal problem of how the commission is asking for our vote, which i think we will have to study.
the rapporteur. - (it) i would like to apologise to the president for not getting up earlier, but i did not know the customs. i won't do it again. i certainly did not mean to be disrespectful to this house. i am afraid i have made another mistake, however, in speaking too quickly. i would ask those who work for us, the interpreters, to apologize, because one of my colleagues told me i spoke too fast. it was emotion, but i think that since i'm a woman and emotion and reason go hand in hand, i'll use a lot more reason next time. however, i would simply like to say that i sincerely congratulate all the other members on their intervention, because one thing has emerged clearly: beyond the speed with which this programme must be launched, the main thing is that the european union and the european parliament must play a more active, stronger role in order to achieve a stable and lasting peace in the middle east, especially between palestine and israel, to find a solution to the refugee problem and for a palestinian state to live in peace with the israeli state.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment when we declare, with the new commission, that we must give a central role to the european parliament, it is natural that we should at the same time think about the revival of the foreign policy of this parliament. the russian crisis offers us that opportunity. at a time when the international community and all the world's press organizations are emphasizing the importance of the scandal affecting russia, we must take the necessary initiatives to understand the gravity of this scandal, what explanations the russian government is giving to these accusations and what our relations with russia are in terms of community funding. of course, commissioner kinnock's report has certainly been thorough and has played an important role, but we must look above all at the political aspect of what is happening in russia at the moment, namely that everything that could destabilise international politics in the coming months, as well as trade relations between the community and russia itself, without thinking of the serious consequences for european companies that have invested in that country. the current scandals are shaking the russian nomenklatura and institutional representatives. in addition, the us congress itself decided to investigate the use of funds provided in the form of financial aid to russia, in order to see if there has been any misappropriation. that said, i believe that the community institutions should ask the competent russian authorities for clarification on the allocation of funds for the development of the country and to cover the food emergency. in addition, the commission services, which have been handling aid to russia, must draw up a report on the way the funds have been used; the commission is also requesting that a committee of inquiry, comprising the council of the commission, the european parliament, the eib and the ebrd, be set up to verify which aid granted to russia - and in what quantity - has been used for its intended purpose. take the tacis programme, for example. only yesterday, president prodi recalled the concepts of transparency, on the one hand, in the head of his commission, and, at the same time, the concepts of cooperation with the european parliament. if this is the first commitment, then we must immediately clarify our relations with russia and the bilateral relations between the community and the russian government. if we do all this, we will give political meaning to our institution and regain our credibility in the eyes of world public opinion.
- mr president, i am very pleased that our parliament is finally dealing with this matter. the international community has obviously made a serious mistake in not including the issue of the kosovar prisoners in the agreements reached with the belgrade authorities. we must now correct this mistake. i fully agree with our colleague doris pack that this must be a precondition for any lifting of sanctions. i am a little less in agreement with the capacity of the international authorities and the european union to intervene. the issue of the kosovar prisoners is a humanitarian issue. the european union continues to provide humanitarian aid to serbia. it's the only channel left. i think, and the commission is the first to intervene at this level, that the issue of the kosovar prisoners being a humanitarian one, the european union may well lack zeal in delivering aid to the serbian authorities as long as they do not release all the kosovar prisoners. i believe that something can be done now, that a strong signal can be sent to the authorities in belgrade, and i would ask the commission to inform us as soon as possible of the results of its efforts.
- (it) mr president, we have organised this new debate in parliament on burma because we are on the eve of the decisions that the council of the union must take to reiterate sanctions against the regime which, through a ferocious dictatorship, oppresses that country by constantly violating the most basic human rights and those of ethnic minorities. we ask above all that the council confirm and strengthen the common position on sanctions. that is the request of my group and the other groups who have signed the proposal we are discussing today. unfortunately, there is no positive development in burma, but rather an increase in repression. as the resolution says, in recent weeks alone there have been dozens of arrests of burmese and foreign citizens who continue to fight for democracy and human rights in that country. we cannot but reaffirm our full and complete solidarity and sympathy with mrs aung san suu kyi, president of the league for democracy, which won a majority in the 1990 elections. despite the many obstacles to her freedom of movement and expression, this courageous woman continues her stubborn opposition to the regime and we cannot forget the inhuman treatment she suffered at the hands of the regime following the death of her husband, a treatment which has already been condemned by this parliament. the resolution also calls on the burmese government to put an immediate end to the abhorrent practice of forced labour which is being practised on a large part of the civilian population and which particularly affects children and women from ethnic minorities. we also denounce, as the international labour office has done, these practices as a crime against humanity. the european union must consider the situation in burma as one of the priorities of its international action to defend human rights and democracy we must make this battle a symbol for all the realities of the world, but we must also succeed in turning it increasingly into a coherent and effective political practice. the member states must also commit themselves, in accordance with the council's common position, to raise the issue of burma with equal intensity in all international organisations, from the un to regional organisations of asian countries. only the isolation of the military dictatorship through sanctions and dialogue with the opposition forces and ethnic minorities can contribute to the affirmation of democracy in burma. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) madam president, i agree with my colleague and thank you for what has already been done since july to improve the situation and for what is being done to improve it further. i would like to point out, however, a case i have come across which i believe needs to be resolved. it is not a matter for parliamentarians, or our corporation, i should say, but for our employees. in one room, room 382 to be exact, on the first floor of the tower, i saw that a gigantic photocopier had been installed, with a person working on it. well, in this room, there's no window or air intake of any kind. i do not even know whether this machine, which is noisy, emits any harmful emissions to the operator's health. i would therefore ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented in a way that is compatible with the directive. in fact, i saw on the plaque on the door that this room had originally been intended for other functions and, therefore, it may be a temporary solution. i hope so, because it would seem to me to be a very contradictory situation to maintain such a situation.
- (it) madam president, this parliament will play an increasingly important role - as we said during the debate on confidence in president prodi - and i believe that its work should be increasingly known in all the countries of the european union. to do this, i think we need to improve relations with the press, and journalists' work must be made easier. you have already done a great deal and i notice that this presidency is sensitive to the press and has already shown great availability. you announced at the opening of the sitting that we had already adopted some directives, that we had already given concrete answers to the parliamentary press, but, i repeat, i believe that more still needs to be done to facilitate the work of journalists so that they can make the excellent work done here known to the whole european union. today, journalists still work in conditions that are not optimal; i think that is why it is appropriate, for example, to move the press room perhaps under the house. the current chamber is still too far away and it is often not easy for journalists to come and speak with members, especially during important sessions. i believe that, thanks to your interventions, the situation will continue to improve in the coming weeks or months, as it has done so far. for that reason, as a parliamentary journalist and as a member of parliament, i thank you for what you will do.
- (it) madam president, i tabled a question for question time in accordance with rule 43 of the rules of procedure, not without respecting the deadlines laid down in annex ii, point a, paragraph 13, which states that 'questions must be tabled at least one week before question time begins. questions not tabled within this period may be dealt with during question time, provided that the institution concerned agrees to this. the competent department refused my question because the wording on the back of the form was different from that in the regulation. i wonder first of all whether it is right for a form to amend a regulation. in addition, the regulation provides in any event that even if a question is not tabled within the prescribed time limit, it may be received if the institution in question agrees. however, a completely different procedure was followed. given that the regulation is approved by parliament and the form is drawn up only by the internal bureaucracy, i wonder whether it is the bureaucracy that should prevail or what has been voted by the representatives of the citizens.
- (it) mr prodi, you were right to say that scientific information is always incomplete. it is still incomplete in the sense that it is improving every day, but it is the duty of politicians to realise that we should not experiment on citizens until we have certainty in certain areas. you mentioned a white paper on food safety. we are interested in your choice and we all hope that you will not propose a white paper like that of mr delors: a white paper on unemployment which, as far as i am concerned, has not created a single job. we hope that this white paper will contribute to the health of citizens. we want rules to be established without further delay. we want to know who controls and who controls the controllers, as an old latin saying goes. the delays since march - the crisis having only broken out in may following the announcement of the dioxin crisis in belgium - reflect inadequate food safety controls and demonstrate that the analysis of the daily diet for the possible presence of pcbs and dioxins or other pollutants is practically non-existent or only partially carried out. let's move on to another problem. it seems that the retail industry often likes to put thawed meat back into toxic substances so that it can be resold to the public. in fact, several past inquiries have shown this. in 1990, and the scandal broke in the press in 1992, we denounced the case of the famous blood gelatin steaks - a product from england, again - which hit consumers hard. we know all the components of dioxin: chlorine, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen. it's insoluble in water, it resists temperatures, it stays present for hundreds of years. i don't think it's wise to continue to ingest it every day. the animal feed contains meat meal and therefore slaughter residues with mixtures of blood, feathers and carcasses. since 1995, following the mad cow case, the european union, the commission, has decreed that it is now forbidden to feed meat meal to ruminants. meat flour was good for fish, chicken, sheep, and pigs. the result: the continuation of this system has led to the situation in belgium. the chickens continued to eat meat flour. how did we discover this " super-pollution " ? when the threshold of 1,500 extra points was passed, the eggs would not even open to release the chicks. so we thought, maybe something's wrong. to hell with the controls ! so, since 1995, meat meal has been replaced by fish meal. but if we do some research - and there have been few such studies in recent years - we find that fish meal contains a high percentage of meat meal, which is made up of carcasses and butcher's feathers. it seems to me that only today has france had the intelligence to say: stop, wait a minute, let us switch to plant-based animal feed because we can no longer guarantee the safety of our consumers. and now there have been rumours since august that the european union wants to allow the inclusion of meat meal up to 0.15% in finished animal feed. but let us realize, let us calculate carefully: 0.15% of 4 000 tonnes of feed for cattle is equivalent to 6 tonnes: if we are to try to survive, this percentage seems unacceptable to me! the mario negri institute in milan has shown that the most serious source of pcb contamination among italians comes from the consumption of dairy products, meat and fish. we should also bring up the problem of taxation in this debate. (the president cut off the speaker)
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dioxin and bse are two different matters which have hit the world of agricultural production hard and have directly affected the consumer. these two problems have been presented to the public as two exceptional cases, but given the frequency of similar cases within the union, we believe that ordinary solutions are needed, not more "buffers". dioxin is the latest and most striking evidence of this. we must look for stable and lasting solutions. the solutions must be based on three very specific aspects: 1) the consumer; 2) a new agro-environmental revolution; 3) a precise political orientation which must come precisely from the community bodies. in this context, producers and consumers give a largely positive rating: on the one hand, agricultural entrepreneurs - now long and strongly bound to strict production rules - fully guarantee and support the maturity of the consumer, as history and current events demonstrate. on the other hand, the consumer himself represents a possible solution to the problem, a consumer who has a good understanding of the european policy on brands and typical products, giving weight to local european products, which are perfectly capable of withstanding international competition which, on the other hand, favours mass-produced food. in this context, we cannot ask producers to sacrifice themselves in a problem which too often causes them to succumb and makes them losers in the market for faults for which they are not responsible. they must then regain hard-won confidence, with production costs here too often underestimated or at least only partially assessed. it takes a lot of time. the question of production costs is not mentioned anywhere: neither the rural development regulation nor the consumer policy regulation make any reference to this aspect. we must learn from cases like dioxin and realise that if farmers are entitled to higher incomes in the case of higher environmental standards, such conditions should also be applied at the level of food, all the more so when it comes to food production. so if the alienation of products is demonstrated, in cases similar to the dioxin scandal, then it is appropriate to consider a special area for the enhancement of quality. the concept of quality has been - and still is - the subject of frequent discussion. i myself will take up here a precise but complex tangle of characteristics: hygiene, traceability, safety, precise production characteristics - also environmental - nutritional values, etc. but quality - not the quality of bulk products which i mentioned in reference to the world market - must be recognized both in normal situations and, for even stronger reasons, in conditions of almost constant environmental risks for the producer. agenda 2000 and regulation 1257 recognise and emphasise aspects of a model which is moving in this direction. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) madam president, i should like to begin by congratulating president prodi on the scientific rigor but also on the great transparency of his speech. i clearly agree with the preamble to commission decision 640 of 23 september 1999 which, on the basis of the who, emphasizes that dioxin is one of the most carcinogenic substances in existence, which is why the who has recommended that the acceptable daily intake should be maintained at 1-4 picograms per kilogram of body weight. however, i cannot help but be puzzled and concerned - both as a scientist and as a politician - by the conclusions we have reached in this decision, namely the establishment of a maximum tolerance level for pcbs of 200 nanograms per gram of fat, whether for poultry, meat or pork products. i wonder, mr president, who can guarantee that the dioxin levels present are not dangerous to man, even with this reference to pcbs? in the end, the hazardousness is not only related to the level, but also depends on the typical pharmacokinetic characteristics of these compounds. these have a half-life of about 5.8 years, or even 7 years, which means that they remain present for about ten years after being absorbed. so, continuous absorption certainly creates an accumulation that can be dangerous. i therefore think that the directives of the commission, which you are chairing, should focus on the permanent monitoring of the levels of dioxins, but also of other pollutants, in all the food we eat, as well as in the air we breathe and the water we drink. in this context, i believe that we need clear guidelines, in the interests of citizens and consumers, so that human exposure levels to dioxin and pcbs - which belong to the same class as dioxin - are as low as possible. in conclusion, i share mr florenz's view of this european agency. it is extremely useful, but it is of little use, mr president, if it is not installed on the ground, as close as possible to the citizens, through what i suggested to the finnish minister for health. highly qualified laboratories are therefore needed in every region of europe, laboratories close to the citizen, providing scientific assurance on what we absorb or breathe every day. all this can be done, and i've already made it clear, this can be done with the help of the qualified laboratories that already exist in universities. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the african continent has more than 2 million deaths a year and 4 million new infections. we know for sure that 70 percent of the last people who have contracted the disease are in africa. there is no doubt that we are facing a pandemic that is the number one cause of death for african citizens. the scale and gravity of this situation is unprecedented when one considers the way in which this disease is striking in particular a continent with which the european union has special relations and links which, in recent years, have been totally relaxed and have not attained their objective at all. i am referring, of course, to the lomé convention, this somewhat exclusive, somewhat special partnership pact, which we have always said was the european union's response to the former colonies and other realities, but which, in essence, is addressed to the african continent. it was a bureaucratic response, as mr wurtz and other speakers have said, first of all to cut budgetary expenditure on aids investments. of course, the answer should have been political, but it was not. we treat this disease differently, no doubt, depending on whether we're on this side of the hemisphere or the other. at the meeting with our african partners next week in the acp-eu parliamentary assembly, we must not forget that the failure of lusaka is certainly also due to our lack of attention to this problem, as to so many others. we should therefore hold a major aids conference, but one that does not just involve the countries that have to deal with such dramatic consequences in practice. we need a conference like the one we wanted in 1993, a conference on this pandemic, aids, a conference which, under our responsibility, deals with this situation and finally sets measures which will be entrusted to an international authority to implement, since in this area the who is totally incapable of proposing concrete answers. that would seem to me to be a wise and reasonable step, one which we have certainly not taken so far. i hope that this proposal will be the priority of our work next week in the acp context and that, commissioner, the commission and the european union will adopt it so that this problem can finally be dealt with seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was very pleased to see that all the comments made by the various groups represented in parliament were widely accepted. the nature of the problem we are facing calls, in my view, for a response that goes beyond the political ideas that often divide us. i can assure you that the commission is keen to strengthen the measures taken in this area, particularly in accordance with the main theme and guidelines which have emerged from the various interventions. i would like to make a few more specific comments. mrs maij-weggen stressed the seriousness of the problem for the younger generation. i have also raised this issue and other speakers have also stressed it. if we want to help give hope to africa, we have to do something here. the figures quoted by several speakers speak for themselves. i think the situation is very serious and i share the view expressed in the debate that this is more than a health problem. mrs maij-weggen stressed that these societies were in fact collapsing and that the progress made was being undermined. i think the numbers are of enormous importance. if the rest of the world had better statistics and more information on the real gravity of the situation, our people would be more aware of the need to increase our efforts in africa, including on a more general level, because the current problem is linked to the general situation in africa. statistics also play a vital role in helping those who wish to combat taboos on the problem. it would be very useful if zimbabwe could give us accurate official statistics - not only on the dangers and the number of people affected in zimbabwe, but also on the results that have been achieved in the neighbouring countries, tanzania, uganda and senegal. the more the authorities are open to the problem, the more positive the results will be. the discussion on condom use also showed a broad consensus on the importance of making condoms accessible and inexpensive and of giving people accurate and honest information, as was the case in tanzania, uganda and senegal. in this connection, i would like to share with you an experience i had in the district of binga, zimbabwe. there, 25 percent of women giving birth for the first time are hiv-positive, and over 30 percent of women giving birth in the local hospital are also hiv-positive. this is a terrible situation. we visited some nuns who were involved in an aids project. i asked them if the question of condom use was part of their information work. they said they could only accept and recommend the use of condoms when it came to prostitutes or related groups. they wanted moral force to be used as a means of defense. it was a very tough attitude and i feel that when we know the damage that results, we have an obligation to share our knowledge with people who need it; i would tend to say that we must impose this knowledge on them. i think that this duty and this moral aspect are issues which could take the discussion forward or that we could also place this discussion in a context of conditionality which we do not hesitate to use with regard to these very poor countries, which need our partnership and our help. and it can be added that in terms of conditionality, when we talk about structural adjustment and macroeconomic aid, it would be useful to address these conditionality issues in relation to the ability of these countries to guarantee the survival of their own peoples. we must of course avoid taking a too rigid position on this issue, but there is at least a moral aspect to it which makes it wrong for us to accept that certain countries will turn a blind eye. survival is a human right. and when we talk about the modern and expanded concept of human rights, we must include the newly infected babies in zimbabwe, who are our partners in human rights, not the circles that deliberately turn a blind eye and refuse to share with the population their knowledge of treatment and especially prevention. the budgetary problem was raised by almost all the participants in the debate. i would like to say that the problem of discovering, from the various budget lines, the actions of the commission as a whole in a particular field is a variant of a very general problem. you can say that again. we are in the middle of an operation which involves many other budget lines than the one which was discussed during the discussion. it is an operation designed to simplify and clarify the budget. that's what the discussion is about. we cannot find out what is being done about hiv or aids by simply looking at the budget line we have been talking about. that being said, i am the first to admit that our budget does not really reveal - and it is hardly ever found in our reports - what we are doing in this area. the way in which the reports are drawn up and the information work carried out shows a great weakness. it's a warning shot to tell us there's a problem. we must be able to report accurately to our own public opinion on the results achieved in relation to the money spent. i would therefore say that it is not so important to know which budget line is concerned. as i said in the introduction, we have set aside eur 25 million for additional actions in this area and this money comes from different sources. it is therefore clear that it is not just this specific budget line that is a sign of our commitment. mr wijkman spoke of relations with other organisations and another speaker quoted the who. the eu is beginning to open up to other actors with whom we can collaborate and coordinate our efforts - other actors than the 15 member states. this is an important factor in the process of quality improvement, especially for the beneficiaries. i would therefore like to say that this is a goal which we will try to achieve. these are the comments i wanted to make. i thank you again for holding this debate. i would like to conclude by saying that i would very much like to see some of the issues raised today - if the opportunity arises on the basis of the questions to which i shall have to answer - discussed when the acp-eu joint assembly meets in nassau in a week's time and to be able to convey the same messages as those which have marked this debate. (applause) i would like to thank
- thank you, commissioner nielson. - thank you very much. i have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
- the following reports by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to bulgaria (com (99) 0403 - c5-0098/1999 - 1999/0165 (cns)) are requested for joint debate: - a5-0018/1999 by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (com (99) 0404 - c5-0099/1999 - 1999/0166 (cns)) - a5-0019/1999 by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to romania (com (99) 0405 - c5-0097/1999 - 1999/0167 (cns)).
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to stress once again, in my first speech to this house, something i have already stressed to the commission, namely the need to establish the best possible relationship between my responsibilities in the commission and those of this house in relation to the relevant matters. i think i have noticed in the course of the various speeches that no group will, in principle, raise any difficulties with aid, but i can see a clear position in favour of the proposals. we all agree that the very difficult kosovo crisis is leading us to make greater efforts. but i would like to make a few points which i think can help us to understand the commission's position on the various amendments tabled. firstly, it is a balance of payments aid that we are talking about. balance of payments support is very different from funding for normal programmes. balance of payments aid is aid to consolidate a country's reserves so that it can cope with its external payment problems, which always have a counterpart: one always has to pay either for the supply of a service or for the purchase of a commodity. we are not talking about funds for the budgets of each of these countries, which are intended to carry out concrete actions. the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the development of the community's energy sector. this is a financial contribution to meet these difficulties. secondly, in the case of bulgaria and romania, the funds are linked to agreements with the international monetary fund which pursue the same objective. in the case of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the situation is somewhat different. it is negotiating an agreement with the international monetary fund. if the negotiations are successful, we will participate in the agreements, but if they are not successful, we believe that the situation is such that the european union's support will be essential anyway. therefore, whether or not there is an agreement with the international monetary fund, there will be support for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, but of course with the general condition that the reform programme necessary for these funds to be effective is implemented. i would remind you that this is not the first time that aid of this kind has been granted to these countries. aid has been given in the past and has always proved effective. we have never had any difficulties in repaying debts, there has never been a moratorium, and we therefore believe that they are absolutely reliable members in financial terms. that said, i would like to address the various proposals that mr martin has put forward in his report. i think that, according to the philosophy i have explained, our position is understandable. as regards mr martin's first proposal, i am in full agreement with what is being proposed, if i understand correctly. finally, growth and economic reforms will lead to better employment and a better standard of living. we are in complete agreement on both of these points. we would therefore accept a formula which says, instead of your proposal, with a view to increasing employment and living standards. this formula would be entirely acceptable to the commission. we are now moving to the second point, the second amendment, which seeks to introduce budgetary control by the commission in respect of the reference funds. given the different nature of these funds compared to normal projects for which funds are entered in the budget, i fear that in this case the idea of budgetary control, which we all accept and defend, is not exactly applicable. here, control must be carried out differently. what needs to be checked is whether, overall, the country is using the funds correctly. we therefore agree with what we consider to be a fundamental idea, namely that the commission should ensure that the reforms which need to be carried out in these countries are carried out in order to be able to use aid properly. however, we do not think that this is a point to be included in the text of the decision. we will commit ourselves to the commission exercising this control and to the fact that this control is carried out, of course in accordance with the evolution of the macroeconomic powers. we think this type of control will be sufficient. but, as i said, we do not think that the proposed amendment is the best way of putting it. as regards amendment no 3, the main idea is, as has been said, to ensure that part of these resources is devoted to the basic social needs of the population. we are faced here with the problem of the nature of aid, to which i have already referred. if it were a question of budgetary aid, we could quite accept the proposal you are making. but this is financial support for reserves to make a certain type of counterpart. it is not a question of whether or not to support the basic needs of the population. however, to reassure you, i will say that the cases we are talking about are extremely different from the indonesian case you mentioned. as far as the actual assistance from the international monetary fund is concerned, the fund's overall plan for the way in which the budgets and expenditure of these countries are to be defined clearly states that a certain percentage of expenditure will have to be allocated to social expenditure. romania, to give a concrete example - i have the figures here - is currently spending 8.3% of its gdp on social spending for 1997. but the condition set by the fund in its programme is that social spending should rise to 10.5% of gdp by 1999. so these matters of the international monetary fund should not concern you at all. i do not think, however, that it is the commission's job to define in the national budgets how the overall budget is to be drawn up, since, as i have said, these funds have no specific purpose of any kind. of course, we could say the same about amendment no 4, which has a similar justification and tackles problems of the same nature. i would like to add one point to amendment no 3. there are specific union programmes devoted to improving administration and meeting basic social needs. remember that, for example, in the phare programme, 30% of the resources are allocated to institution building, of course linked to anything that improves the administrative functioning that will solve the problems. for these reasons, amendments nos 3 and 4 are not acceptable to us. on the other hand, we are in full agreement with amendment no 5. we would, however, suggest a slight stylistic correction: we think that the phrase should appear just after 'the commission' and not after the reference to the international monetary fund. in our view, it should therefore be worded as follows: 'the commission, in accordance with the principle of sound and efficient management, shall verify...' etc. written in this way, we would totally accept your proposal which would be written in a more correct way. amendment no 6 asks that the commission inform parliament before the second balance of payments credit payment is made. once again there is a problem between theory and practice. the problem is that decisions of this kind are often based on facts which i would not say should be secret but which should be treated with a certain degree of confidentiality, and therefore it would not be appropriate, in my view, to explain or comment on them in meetings which are quite public and well known. the problem is therefore how to ensure that parliament knows the facts before they happen, rather than learning them in a public sitting where we are discussing issues which i think could cause some problems. the formula i would now propose and which i could accept is that before any kind of payment is made, the chairmen of the committees concerned should be informed, for example, so that parliament is aware of it, without the duty of confidentiality which we must maintain in certain cases posing any problem. we fully agree with amendment no 7 concerning the sending of information before a specific date. finally, the amendment which is perhaps the most difficult from a conceptual point of view is the one concerning the additional 30 million in the form of a loan. the members are thus raising budgetary problems and, since this is a budgetary contribution, they will have to be solved. the formula proposed by the members to solve these problems is to include, already, an amendment to the financial perspective. i want to distinguish between two chronological processes. the year 1999 on the one hand and the year 2000 on the other. we are talking about 30 million euros, 15 for this year and 15 for next year. as regards the 15 million this year, i can already tell you that the figures are identified in the budget, so we have no difficulty in dealing with these payments immediately. on the other hand, as far as next year is concerned, we might have problems because in the commission's decision itself, as you can see on page 7, paragraph 4, it is clearly specified that, in view of the existing budgetary constraints, difficulties might arise and an adjustment might be necessary in category 4. so this problem is not new, of course, it is a problem that has been highlighted and i think you are right to raise it now. the difficulty is to know which solution we should look for. is there a specific solution to be introduced to change the financial perspective for a specific item by means of a specific council decision? we believe that this would raise problems of respect for budgetary authority and of fragmentation of the analysis of the subjects, which would prevent us from having a global view of the difficulties which might arise. i would therefore ask you not to include this reference to the amendment of the financial perspective, taking into account, of course, two things: firstly, it is obvious that in any case the commission will consider an amendment of the financial perspective in the future in which it will take account of this as well as other aspects related to kosovo; secondly, it is logically up to the budgetary authority, to you as parliament, to the commission in its proposals and to the council in its decisions, to take the appropriate decisions for the year 2000 without, however, prejudging the final solution at this time.
- the joint discussion is over. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 1.20 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
mr president, i would like to say to my colleagues that once again i am afraid that our parliament is characterized by its modesty. mrs. rothe said 12% is not enough. mr langen said that the funds available were insufficient to cover 12% of production and we will, once again, despite these warnings, adopt this report. i think it is important to look at the question a little wider. it is not enough to look at the very low figures we are going to spend on renewable energy, perhaps we should also spend some time looking at the financial energies we are spending on other forms of energy, in particular nuclear energy. the green group's colleague recalled the tragedy of japan, but japan is not a country with problems, nor an underdeveloped country. so today we are going to spend, for the same period of the year, 60 million euros on fission, 15 million euros on renewable energy, and 200 million euros on fusion, and that gives us an idea of the real policies that the european union is pursuing. this is completely unacceptable. we cannot accept, especially since a number of member states have decided to break with nuclear policy, with fission policy, that the union as such continues to finance nuclear policy four times as much. we need to be aware of these differences. we must demand at least more money than we are going to spend on an energy we know nothing about, nuclear fusion, and we must immediately abolish the funds we are allocating to fission and transfer them entirely and directly to renewable energy. that's the point, i think. when today the major nuclear countries of europe, such as germany, are questioning their nuclear programme and france is starting to talk about it, we cannot continue to spend enormous sums, four times as much, i repeat, as we spend on renewable energies, on these energy policies. this is unacceptable. i therefore urge my colleagues to vote against this proposal for an agreement, especially since the council still allows itself to haggle over a few million. but of course that's not the problem. the problem is a funding problem. 12% is not enough, as mrs rothe said. we must set ourselves much more ambitious objectives and this parliament must oblige the council and the commission to find the means for this policy.
- (it) mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs ahern, for her work, which emphasizes the importance of promoting and improving energy efficiency. greater energy efficiency will mean, in the medium term, a reduction in consumption, the safeguarding of renewable energy resources, a reduction in our dependence on energy imports, and a reduction in environmental pollution. as regards the draft recommendation for second reading, i would like to make two comments and recall that the save programme is mainly aimed at strengthening research and the exchange of know-how and monitoring the results obtained in the sector (article 2), even if the financial envelope is limited. let me get to my point. firstly, as regards the proposal under consideration today, which aims to reduce final consumption by 1.5 points per year - amendment to recital 15 and article 1 - i think that the objective is certainly ambitious but unrealistic and harmful to users who have already successfully achieved, but not without great effort, the objectives set out in the save i programme (1991-95). in this connection, i would remind you that achieving energy efficiency in the short term comes at a cost to both companies and end consumers. therefore, targets for reducing final energy consumption should be carefully evaluated. we could risk burdening our productive apparatus with such high costs that they would make firms lose their competitiveness vis-à-vis other international competitors not subject to such constraints. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. i would remind you that promoting efficient energy consumption through extremely restrictive and perhaps unbearable legislative instruments and standards is not always effective. energy saving is a complex process of maturation, focused on the technological and economic awareness of companies and consumers. this is a long-term process. information campaigns to raise public awareness on energy-saving issues are welcome, but i do not see how the adoption of extremely binding legislative measures can be the most effective way of reducing final energy consumption. i refer here to amendment no 1, recital 11, the new recital 15a and amendment no 6 to article 1. conclusions: in the light of these considerations, i would like to draw your attention to the need, in such complex matters, in which the market and its rules are confronted with the collective welfare, to carry out analyses relating costs and benefits, with the long period of time for the introduction of measures to reduce final energy consumption as a reference point. such analyses are possible in transparent markets where each subject, the final consumer - company or consumer - can always assess how efficient energy consumption is through a process of technological and economic maturation, aided by efficient research and as complete information as possible.
- (it) mr president, the agreement with south africa is, on the whole, a political step forward for the european union. it is therefore particularly satisfying. we cannot say the same, in our view, about the commercial side. this agreement has caused great confusion, leaving doubts and areas of uncertainty. the sectors which have expressed their dissatisfaction during these five long and exhausting years of negotiations are, moreover, very numerous, sectors generally concerned with the development processes of the third world countries. the interpretations and opinions of parliament and the commission have also been different. parliament wanted an agreement on terms closer to those of the lomé convention, and the commission has spoken in favour of accession, so to speak, on condition. we believe that this agreement is not uniform. separate agreements were needed where it was possible to work with equal dignity and responsibilities. where this balance could not be achieved, however, more calm and certainly more analytical negotiations were required. the european union has, for example, recognised agricultural safeguard clauses for south africa, even in sectors that compete with the european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am talking about fisheries and wine. european countries have called for the regulation of access to south african waters, despite tariff concessions on south african exports of fish products, in response to south africa's refusal. south africa uses european names for its own products on our markets and those of third countries in exchange for financial aid for our sector. all this seems excessive and unreasonable to us. for this reason, the delegation of the national alliance feels that it must vote against, while at the same time confirming that we are fully prepared to support, in the future, the long and difficult process of growth and development in south africa on a terrain that does not generate injustice or inequality.
commission - (it) mr barón, as regards your first remark, i am pleased to note the comments on the quality of parliament. as regards the second point, i would say that we have confined ourselves today to very urgent revisions of problems which, as we have seen, are quite extraordinary. if we look again at the list of provisions, we find turkey, we find all the urgent cases for which a change in the budget was indispensable and necessary. we have not, in any way, re-analysed the major budgetary expenditure chapters. if we are going to enter this chapter, then i must say, mr barón, that not only does foreign policy have to be readjusted, but all the chapters of the budget have to be rearranged. the budgetary structures are, quite frankly, more historically based than they are future-oriented. this seems to me to be one of the three or four challenges we have to face together. i do not therefore answer to a particular chapter, i do not want to, but i am following your invitation, mr barón, because i myself, when i start looking at the large percentages of expenditure, think that it is history that dictates our path more than future needs.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i am not opposed to its publication in any way, but the letter should be published by the person who receives it and not by the person who sends it. so that decision really is up to minister lipponen. as the letter i sent to him contains no secrets, i have no problem with its publication, but i really believe it is fair to say that the decision is his.
- (it) mr prodi, i know you as an italian and i know you from the hearings in this parliament. i know that you are determined to make this parliament more than a symbol. i have the impression, however, that the governments of the various member states do not share your wishes. i am referring in particular to the type of administration of budgetary funds which we transfer to the various member states. in our case, italy, these funds are passed through committees which operate within the ministry of industry, for example, committees which we have difficult access to despite our work in the committees, to ensure that these funds are allocated to the member states to an ever wider extent. can you intervene to ensure that the members of the european parliament are in some way able to follow the course of the funds allocated to the member states?
commission - (it) mr helmer, i am very pleased that you are asking me these questions because, in fact, for many years my job has been to analyse competitiveness and the industrial economy. i fully agree with the points you have made: the reduction of corporate taxes and their harmonization are very useful for european competition, as is the tax on labour. if, on the other hand, you ask me what the first factor is for europe and its industrial problems, i will answer you in all sincerity: the problem of human resources as an incentive for entrepreneurship that our continent has and, therefore, the problem of preparing the financial structures for the new entrepreneurship. i therefore believe that the human factor is our main problem in productive development and that the tax factor is extremely important. we can give it the same importance as the other factor if you wish, but the problem of human resources is certainly, in my view, of paramount importance for our continent. if we do not urgently try to protect ourselves by means of a very large programme of action in this sector, i think that even the reduction of taxes - which has a very solid content and makes a very strong contribution - will not be enough to develop european industry.
- (it) madam president, allow me to make a brief comment. i do not think i can judge the questions raised by my colleagues, but i would say that perhaps we should confine ourselves in this confrontation with the commission to discussing the decisions taken by the commission, otherwise we risk overloading on another instrument, namely question time, which will soon begin. so if we want this confrontation to have meaning, i think we must not stray from the established framework. i have a very short question for mr prodi concerning the organization charts. the second report of the experts contains a point dealing with national interests which is said to have developed somewhat within the commission. with fraud, there is nothing worse, in my view, for an institution like the commission than to think that impartiality and supranationality do not exist. is the policy you have launched with regard to directors-general also to examine, confront and tackle head on the problem of the commission's impartiality and autonomy?
commission - yes, but you won't get another one. my answer was not intended for bureaucrats. there is so much humanism in focusing on the victims of conflict, whatever its nature. when it comes to a situation as serious as the one we have just discussed, it is clear that there are elements on both sides of the conflict which can be characterized as you have just described. otherwise, the victims would have a different fate. and the mandate given to echo in this area is a humanitarian mandate. i ask you to respect that. i am well aware that it is not always possible to be completely impartial and that one can always be abused by one or the other side of a conflict when helping victims. but you can't handle this like you just did. it is difficult enough to provide useful humanitarian aid.
- i don't think there's anything artificial about it. mr madelin said it before me: there 's a dramatic situation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the central asian countries is not so bad. the situation is, as mr madelin said, absolutely dramatic. i think the taliban regime is absolutely indefensible and that is one more reason to intervene.
commission - (da) i have mentioned the humanitarian aid provided by the eu to those in need in serbia, and the other issues are, in fact, outside the scope of the discussion of humanitarian aid itself. we are obliged to define the framework of our humanitarian aid and i believe that our actions in favour of serbia fall precisely within that framework.
- commissioner, you will agree with me that the humanitarian aid we are giving to serbia is certainly not penalising mr milosevic, but those are the criteria for humanitarian aid and it is therefore normal, at least in your logic, that it should be provided. however, another humanitarian issue is still unresolved, namely the 3000 or more kosovar prisoners still held in serbian prisons. it's a humanitarian issue, so it's got to concern you, too. you have a major leverage in the €50 million in humanitarian aid to serbia. are you determined to use it in the coming days to secure the release of these prisoners?
mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's communication, but i would like to say that i am aware of the commission's report on india and i am also aware of the interest of the honourable member in india, an interest which i fully share. when i met mr jaswant singh, the indian foreign minister, last week on 30 september, i emphasized that i wanted very close relations between the eu and india, reflecting india's strategic and economic importance. during our conversation mr singh invited me to visit india and i hope to return early next year. i intend to support the full implementation of the commission's communication, taking into account the recommendations of parliament. i am pleased that a number of joint working parties have already met, or will soon meet, on subjects as diverse as consular affairs and environmental issues. in addition, we organise regular meetings of ministers and senior officials. as for specific proposals for an annual summit between the eu and india, that is a matter for the council to decide. i personally think that we should measure the success of eu-india relations by the substance and not by the summits, which i think - and i hope the honourable member does not think that my statements lack diplomacy - are, in general, too many.
- thank you very much, commissioner, for that answer. i see that you intend to strengthen the relations between the union and india enormously. i think, and i differ somewhat from you in the last part of your answer, that the huge signals given by the european union in other parts of the world, but which are very close to india, through the organisation of events such as summits, must be counterbalanced. european businessmen, european politicians and european political opinion, as well as those in india, need a strong signal, which can only come through a summit. i would therefore ask you to examine the reactions of the members of the council to see whether one or more states would be interested in organising such a summit in the short term.
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it may seem incredible to you, or perhaps it is just a coincidence, but just last night i received a statement from the kurdish authorities announcing the continuation of the armed struggle. in my view, we must condemn this attitude in the name of democracy and civil respect for each other. this is the real cause of the turkish problem and of the problem in relations between the turkish state and the european community. before the oçalan affair, no one questioned the excellent relations we had with a state which had always declared its desire to cooperate ever more closely with the community, even to the point of applying for membership. mr poettering himself said in his report a short while ago that he was in favour of this idea at the time of the customs agreements. on the one hand, as a christian catholic first and foremost and as a politician second, i must stress one need: turkey must show greater respect for civil rights and fundamental values, especially human rights. on the other hand, however, we must bear in mind that turkey has always respected its commitments to the community in recent years, both in foreign policy and in cooperation, in the economy and therefore also in culture. i think that we must urge the president of the commission and the council, and all of us, to ensure that all the agreements concluded with the turkish state are maintained and respected, and that the competent community bodies also continue to take specific and specific action to ensure that the process of democratization and the peaceful settlement of differences with the other member states are actually taking place and are not limited to mere declarations by the turkish state. if we act in this way with the aim of enlarging the community and at the same time ensuring that its fundamental principles and values are respected, this institution will regain its rightful role, a fundamental role in terms of foreign policy and international credibility.
- (it) madam president, the commissioner's statements only betrayed utilitarianism. he spoke of economic criteria, strategic criteria, security; he never touched on the subject of democracy and human rights. the death penalty is still in force in turkey. neither individual rights nor the rights of peoples are respected. there is not only the kurdish question, there is also the question of other minorities. the legislation still contains certain anti-democratic elements: for example, article 155 of the criminal code and article 8 of the law on terrorism. therefore, before granting turkey the status of a candidate country, i think it is appropriate to check that turkey amends its legislation. only then can we embark on the road to membership. i was a member of the council of europe's committee responsible for monitoring the oçalan trial and i have to say that the criminal proceedings do not comply with the rules of democracy at all. i therefore believe that it is premature to grant turkey the status of candidate country.
- (it) mr president, in my view this debate and the motion we are discussing today are a good example of the desire of this parliament to send a clear, strong and friendly message of openness, a message which takes note of the new position of the greek government vis-à-vis the turkish government. however, we must also have the courage to admit that parliament now expects the political criteria - even before the economic criteria - of copenhagen to be met. the copenhagen political criteria are ethical criteria, they are the true identity of this parliament and of the european union. the european union is a state governed by the rule of law, and it bases its identity on this principle. this is a much more important aspect and a much more significant condition than being able to coin a common currency or have a common defence policy. ethical criteria are human rights, democracy, respect for minorities. i think that the summary we have made in our motion was necessary and we must submit it to turkey. the candidate status and the opening signals are not a problem, provided we have the courage to first of all say to ourselves that welcoming turkey into the european union will not be easy as long as the turkish government continues to ignore the security council resolutions on the invasion of cyprus, as long as it continues to deny the existence of a kurdish minority by generally calling them terrorists, as long as öcalan is threatened with the death penalty. i think we must go beyond a purely economic presentation and reading. we must demand concrete results in terms of democracy. we owe this guarantee not only to our treaties but above all to our peoples, and above all to the turkish people.
- (it) mr president, relations with turkey are a difficult and complex subject. we cannot ignore the situation of a country which has always followed nato. turkey still has a long way to go, it must adopt western democratic values, resolve the issues of relations with greece and cyprus. to facilitate this process, i think that president poettering's proposal should be given serious consideration, a proposal to create a forum for regular meetings between turkey and the european union to discuss democracy and the human rights of minorities, economic and social development, security and foreign policy. the road ahead is still long, very long, but the open dialogue with the partnership, which must be strengthened with the forum proposed by president poettering, cannot and must not be interrupted. the end of the confrontation would increase the risk of an ever-growing presence of islamic extremism in turkey. this would destabilize the mediterranean. that is why we are in favour of continuing the dialogue between the european union and turkey, not without asking turkey to make concrete progress. it is not enough to promise: we need concrete facts, respect for human rights, the abolition of the death penalty, bearing in mind, however, that the kurdish problem is not just a problem in turkey. respect for the human rights of the kurdish minority is not only a matter for turkey, but also for iran. when we refer to the human rights and guarantees of the kurdish people, we must look beyond the borders of turkey, because then all this would become an instrument of political propaganda. i therefore believe that dialogue must continue, but i repeat that turkey must provide tangible evidence of its commitment to european democratic values.
- (it) mr president, i am convinced that all the elements, all the possibilities for building peace in the affirmation of the human, social and political rights of each individual or of each people must be valued. the situation in the middle east is far from that, but the election of ehud barak as prime minister of israel has undoubtedly brought a possibility of peace. the recent developments in the oslo agreements in the new charm el sheikh process demonstrate this. but the israeli authorities must make further efforts - as some colleagues have already said - to bring about peace, or at least possible justice, efforts which concern not only the israeli-palestinian question but also the lebanese and syrian question. we must end the occupation of southern lebanon and return the land to syria, as stipulated in several un resolutions. of course, all this must be done without endangering the security of the state of israel. however, the question of security cannot obscure the illegality of the military occupation or the bombing of civilians, as is the case in southern lebanon, where there are prisons such as qian, but the palestinian question remains central. the european union reaffirmed in berlin in 1999 the right of the palestinians to a sovereign, democratic state coexisting peacefully with the state of israel. in sharm el-sheikh, the warring parties committed themselves to defining the final state by the year 2000. to this end, it is essential that israel realises that a sovereign palestinian state is not a generous concession but a right. in particular, israel must avoid certain actions that alter the territorial and demographic landscape of the occupied territories, including east jerusalem. today we still hear about the destruction of palestinian homes, the confiscation of land and the further settlement. on september 25, the military administration ordered the confiscation of palestinian land in 79 villages. this land is located on the green line and is cultivated and inhabited; and so it is in the nearby village of hebron. in east jerusalem, men and women are being confiscated their identity cards in order to reduce their presence, in what the israeli centre for human rights has called a silent deportation. the tragedy of the palestinian refugees also remains. well, the un resolution has to be implemented. the opening of the crossing between gaza and the west bank is a very positive point, but israeli controls make it difficult for men, women and goods to cross. the union has an important role to play in this respect. it has played a positive and important role in the peace process because it has achieved a lot and i think it should continue to do so. that is why our role is fundamental, and the role of the european institutions is also fundamental.
- (it) mr president, i think that today's debate shows how unanimously this parliament approves the progress made in the peace process, as illustrated by the charm el sheikh memorandum. the peace process is a complex process - as commissioner patten has pointed out. however, we now have important time-frames and intervals in which certain events must take place which will lead us to a final solution, namely the recognition of two sovereign and independent states which can coexist in security. i think we must now reaffirm our commitment and make an exceptional effort, equal to that of the contractors, whom no one can replace. but i think that in this context the union can also play a more political role, perhaps, in order to contribute to the resolution of the controversial and unresolved issues. in this context, the negotiations between israel and lebanon and syria on the golan and the items on the agenda which have not yet been dealt with were recalled. i believe, however, that it is important that these issues should not be the subject of unilateral actions which jeopardize negotiated solutions, and that the two societies should immediately confront each other: israel, to ensure its security, and the palestinians, to guarantee peace and prosperity. i think nothing is unsolvable. i would like to make one final comment on the highly sensitive issue of jerusalem and its status. of course, the will of the palestinians and the israelis is necessary to resolve this issue. there is nothing that cannot be solved, i would like to say, and to illustrate my point i will mention the history of my own city, rome, a concrete example of a capital in which two states manage to coexist.
- (it) mr president, the liberal and democratic group wishes to express its deep satisfaction with this charm el sheikh memorandum of understanding. it is indeed strengthening the arduous peace process in the middle east and we hope that it will bring this process to a successful conclusion. we, the liberal democrats, believe that europe must continue to give its strong support to the process of peace and cooperation in the middle east, but must also be committed not only on the economic level but also on the political and cultural level. to do this, it must acquire a political strength and weight that is recognized in the region and in the world. we support the right to self-determination but we believe that all parties must be called upon to take a concrete action in the fight against terrorism in order to guarantee the security of the peoples.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i note that we are all quite optimistic about the future of the middle east peace process. the opportunities for improvement are real and we must strive to take advantage of them. the european union is ready to contribute to the promotion of dialogue both economically and politically. nevertheless, as many speakers have pointed out, we are facing major challenges that no one should underestimate. the most difficult and sensitive issues are always left unresolved. if the time that has elapsed since the madrid peace conference in 1991 had been used to its full potential, the trust between the parties could already be strong. now, instead, the one-year deadline for a permanent agreement seems very ambitious. of course she has to be. i would just like to say that if the parties so wish, the union is ready to help with the means at its disposal.
commission. - as mr sasi said, this debate has been very useful. i think he underlined the concern of this parliament - and of the european union as a whole - to play a constructive role in the middle east. several speakers, including mr galeote at the beginning of the debate and mr schori, stressed that after a few rather difficult and sinister years, at least the dawn was on the horizon again. i think that is true and that has been reflected in the statements of most honourable members. of course, mr. poos is right in saying, with all his wisdom and experience, that it was a little too soon, to paraphrase, to sand the champagne. there's still work to be done. we intend to do everything in our power to support the process and i would like to express once again my gratitude to ambassador moratinos for all that he has done in the region to contribute a good deal of the union's aid. perhaps it is worth emphasizing again the importance of our economic relationship. we are of course israel's main economic partner and it is also incumbent on us to remember all the aid given to the palestinians. from 1994 to 1998, eu aid to the west bank and gaza strip reached €1.5 billion over the same period, while aid to the united nations relief and works agency was approximately €505 million. in any case, this is a very substantial commitment. the honourable member who spoke on behalf of the eldr group - we have known each other from another era - spoke of the importance of honest and open trade between the region and the european union. when i met the foreign minister, mr levy, in new york a few weeks ago, i told him that i did not think our relationship should be drowned in orange juice - there are important commercial issues to be resolved and orange juice is one of them. we have bigger issues to solve and i am sure we should be getting down to it in the very next few months. mr collins, who spoke later in the debate, said he thought the prospects were better in the middle east. i think this reflects the consensus that emerged in the debate that there is a possibility of moving things forward more efficiently and it is certain that the commission intends to do everything it can to contribute to this process.
- thank you, commissioner patten. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the voting period. (the sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
- (it) madam president, on behalf of the radical members present and not registered, i can confirm that we will not take part in the vote until the problems relating to the rights and prerogatives of all the members elected to this parliament have been resolved and until the 626 members have the same rights and duties. we hope that the committee on constitutional affairs will provide us with the appropriate solution as soon as possible, so that all european citizens can have a real representation in this house.
- (it) madam president, this is a relatively serious problem: the italian text of paragraph 15 of this resolution says that religious authorities are invited to cooperate fully in the implementation of prevention programmes and to participate constructively in aids prevention action. it seems to me more than normal and legitimate. both the french and the english texts say that the religious authorities are invited to cooperate fully. these two versions differ from the italian text in terms of their lexicon. the french and english versions also say, above all, that religious authorities are invited to participate in the distribution of condoms. the idea that religious authorities could personally distribute condoms seems to me quite incredible and inexplicable. you understand that's what the french and english texts say! (applause) i would like to thank i have not been able to read this text in the other languages of the union, but i would like to know, first of all, whether there is a political implication that the italian text is not correct, or whether the french and english versions are wrong. finally - but that is another matter - i wonder whether each member of parliament, when called upon to vote, has to read the texts in the 15 languages. in that case, our parliament should meet 30 days out of 30. president pasqua has already pointed out the problem of the lack of translations. today our group not only highlights the problem of lack of translations but also insists that there are inaccurate translations. i ask for clarification and, of course, if the french and english texts are correct, i withdraw my support for this proposal.
- (it) madam president, i asked to speak so that it could be noted in the minutes that five radical members present - bonino, dell'alba, della vedova, dupuis and turco - did not take part in the vote on the calendar for the year 2000 and in the subsequent votes. as mr dell'alba said at the beginning, we do not intend to endorse, by voting, a situation which in fact discriminates against millions of european citizens, whose representatives are denied the opportunity to exercise their own parliamentary mandate fully.
- (it) mr president, i ask that our speeches yesterday and today in this house be verified. it is necessary to check how many speakers have exceeded their speaking time and by how much, and to determine who had the right to do so or not. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, commissioner, international trade and a new international division of labour are an important resource for economic growth and freedom for the more than six billion people who now inhabit our planet. there is no freedom that does not also include freedom of trade and freedom of movement. in my view, however, europe is in danger of falling behind in the question of international trade and the millennium round and of not taking on, as it should, civilized leadership, the leadership capable of guiding, within the framework of clearly defined rules for everyone, the novelties of the year 2000 which will characterize international trade. we must eliminate these risks for the sake of the european citizens first and foremost. i am thinking, for example, of an excessive emphasis on social protection clauses, social dumping in areas where nothing can be done - we know this very well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is another point in my view: audiovisual and cultural productions. the protectionism that is evident in europe - in france and italy - has, in my view, no reason to exist and is totally obsolete. just think of the internet and what it represents in terms of the possibilities for the dissemination of audiovisual and cultural products. insisting on the application of protectionist schemes means imposing on european citizens low-quality cultural and audiovisual products, almost always semi-public, financed and supported by public money. i think that the european citizens are mature enough to give their opinion on this matter too - and they have the right to do so - in the context of the offer made at international level.
- (it) mr president, we would like to believe everything that mr sasi and mr lamy have assured us about europe's willingness to limit the harmful effects of the liberalization of multilateral trade without rules, a liberalization which is inspired, as always, by the american ideology of globalization. we would like to believe that, but the bitter experience we had with mr lamy's predecessor, sir leon brittan, forbids us to do so. the latter had pledged before this parliament to oppose the american roller compressor, commitments which he has not kept on a regular basis: take the case of the helms-burton act and the wto. we realize that times have changed dramatically, that awareness and protest are growing all over the world, that the slogan "what is good for big business is good for the world at large" is no longer shouted in the wind. hopefully, the statements made today are more than a public relations gesture, a placebo, a tranquilizer. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, we must guide globalisation, and we must not let it become a mere matter of time. one thing is clear: the world trade organization has removed barriers to trade and has thus removed ideological boundaries, thereby helping people to communicate with one another. but there can be no talk of wild liberalization. it must be governed by rules designed to safeguard the values peculiar to each people and the characteristics of each country. we must also defend european agriculture, the tradition of these typical products which are also of interest to the textile, footwear and industrial sectors, remembering that the elimination of certain products also implies the modification of traditions and even landscapes: take olive oil, hops and malt. another requirement is food safety. there is no question of allowing - in the name of free trade - the circulation of unsecured products. the hormones in veal are not the most recommended. the removal of barriers must not lead to a lack of safety and quality in products. there is one final imperative: to prevent the disappearance of the smaller ones. let's make sure the millennium round is not the round where europe is knocked out.
- (it) mr president, i think the commission was right in its communication to stress the importance of the round of negotiations we are about to begin in seattle being a round of negotiations in its entirety. these negotiations will be difficult and complex and we must never forget the fundamental strategic interest they represent for the european community. we are the world's largest exporter and we are concerned, more than any other region of the globe, with the drive to remove barriers to the development of international trade. the development of international trade means making a major contribution to the european economic growth which the community countries need more than ever. i believe that this is an undeniable fact, which mr pasqua's anti-american arguments, which are at least thirty years old, cannot call into question. of course we must defend the fundamental values and principles of the community countries, but we must do so in a prudent and flexible way, bearing in mind that what is most important is to pursue this fundamental strategic interest in the liberalization of international trade, which i mentioned a moment ago. i therefore believe that this is neither the time nor the place to raise barriers or impose limits. parliament's participation in these negotiations, in collaboration with commissioner lamy, will help to achieve this.
- (it) mr president, commissioner lamy, minister sasi, the millennium round will certainly have to promote forms of collaboration and integration between the world trade organisation, the international labour organisation, the international monetary fund and the world bank so that trade liberalization is accompanied by a new stability of the monetary market, policies making extensive use of human resources, social protection networks, general respect for basic labour standards. only then can we eliminate the mutual accusations of social dumping and protectionism. in the solemn declaration of june 1998, the 174 ilo member countries committed themselves to promoting the four fundamental labour rights: the right to association, respect for the minimum age for admission to employment, the prohibition of forced labour and non-discrimination. it has been found that there is an indirect definition of fair competition so that social development is not restricted by legislation for competitive purposes. more recently, the g8 meetings in washington and cologne specifically called for the implementation of the ilo solemn declaration. support policies must therefore always take precedence over sanctions. in this respect, europe can be a reliable reference point, thanks in particular to its model of social market economy. the commission, supported by parliament, will therefore have to commit resources to helping developing countries and economies in transition to build up modern social protection systems and effective labour markets. this is the ideal and political message that a united europe can send to seattle, confirming the traditional function of this framework for dialogue and integration between developed economies and developing or transition economies.
council. - (sv) as i said in my reply, there is no doubt that this is a problem which we must try to solve. the emcdda has undertaken to develop a common method for compiling statistics. it is also worthwhile to consider what resources we have available for this purpose. finally, the work of developing this statistical method requires a very focused approach.
- mr president, i am a little surprised by the answer of the council presidency, since we all agree on the need for statistics. the european parliament has repeated this in a resolution, as the president of the council has pointed out. this has been requested on several occasions by the observatory. there is a working group with the retox network, and according to the answer from the council presidency, we still do not know when we will have these common statistics. i think this is really important because we have fifteen national drug policies that are completely catastrophic. it is therefore urgent that european citizens should understand that the increase in resources allocated to the fight against drugs corresponds in a literal way to an increase in drug use and that the policies pursued are therefore a complete failure. i would like to ask the minister when we will finally be able to have these common statistics which will demonstrate the disastrous strategy of the prohibitionist policy.
- mr president, mr rübig's question had nothing to do with the question on the agenda. it may have been a very interesting question for him, but in that case he should ask a question like the other members of this house.
- (it) mr president, we are again faced with the conflict of interests - if i may put it this way - between the principle of the territorial integrity of states and the principle of self-determination of peoples. the latter has been quietly applied - in the case of present-day russia, the former soviet union - to latvia, estonia, lithuania, ukraine, belarus and the caucasus states. but chechnya does not seem to be a caucasian state. the international community has mobilized in favour of the kosovars but not in favour of the chechens. the international community has supported the independence of east timor but not that of chechnya. i wonder why there is such discrimination against a people who have a full right to self-determination.
- (it) mr president, i think it is particularly important that during the debate on the budget the amendments supporting and calling on the commission to support campaigns and actions in favour of a moratorium on capital punishment and, in the long term, in favour of the abolition of the death penalty, have been adopted, for the time being, in committee. why, mr president? the house has often been involved in specific issues and has even achieved several successes, alongside failures in areas such as the abolition or suspension of capital punishment. what is important is to make the year 2000 a reference date for europe - europe as the home of human rights - to take action to abolish the death penalty. there is a very important campaign going on all over the world, and europe must take the lead. i therefore call on the commission to commit itself to implementing these objectives to make europe the world home of political action against the death penalty.
- mr president, since my colleague olivier dupuis and i tabled this motion for a resolution on the establishment of a moratorium on the death penalty, an extremely serious and sinister event has occurred. on monday, the us supreme court rejected the appeal of moumia abu jamal, the african-american freedom fighter who was sentenced to death in 1992. as we are debating this in this house, governor thomas ridge of pennsylvania is probably signing his execution warrant. moumia has few legal recourse to escape the rope. as in the past, when this parliament, the council, various heads of state and government and world public opinion had mobilized to obtain a stay of execution, we have again done everything in our power to save the life of this victim of racial hatred and a flagrant perversion of justice.
- (it) mr president, the fight against the death penalty in the world is first and foremost a struggle of civilization for this right of humanitarian intervention which is taking root in the world's consciousness. this parliament has a long tradition in this area, and i would like to pay tribute here to the work of mrs adelaide aglietta, who was the first in this parliament to write a report on the death penalty in the world. the council is doing a good job and we hope the commission will do the same. it is important, however, to ensure that the resolution which is voted by the house is not just a piece of paper. it must be a step forward in our struggle. the council must not let this go. the additional time limits and control mechanisms for the implementation of the resolution should be defined.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr frassoni, mr thors and mr manisco for supporting the text of this resolution. i think we are a few steps away from a first major result at the un general assembly and that we should concentrate on making sure that the text that comes out is a real text, a text that allows us to continue this battle, which - as other speakers have said - is particularly important to this parliament. we risk - as is the case after the debates in the council - having a weak text, which is simply a reproduction of those adopted in geneva over the last three years and which does not allow us to continue this battle, does not set new deadlines, nor does it provide mechanisms for checking the steps and progress made. i therefore call on the council not to get bogged down in philosophical debates but to ensure that the mechanisms enabling us to continue this battle are inscribed in this text and that the drafting of it is completed very quickly so that the council and the commission - for which we have mr patten's assurances - can begin the work of convincing the 180 member states of the united nations. it is very urgent, the assembly has already begun its work. the coming days and weeks must be used to bring this first major text in favour of the abolition of the death penalty to the general assembly. we must also ensure that this text is not anti-american. the initiatives of recent years have shown the american people that this is not the case, but i think we need to continue to emphasise this. the us administration is now aware that there is progress by all of humanity in this direction and that it is indeed an expansion of the sphere of human rights. finally, it is all the more important because in the past few hours mr öcalan has been sentenced to the death penalty. it is therefore also a way of reaffirming in this respect the importance of taking a final decision at the level of the united nations on the abolition of the death penalty.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we are having this debate today on the tragedy of ustica. this debate will be all the more important if parliament can play a proper and practical political role in helping to shed light on this dark story and to bring justice to the 81 victims and their relatives who have been waiting for more than 19 years to find out what happened, why and who is responsible. it has been more than 19 years, as i said, and many investigations have been carried out by the italian judiciary, but even the last one, that of judge priore, - although very valuable - has not been able to provide really satisfactory answers. what caused the accident? a missile launched during an air showdown or a bomb placed in the plane? unfortunately, too often evidence has been suppressed or destroyed and to blame the responsibility for this tragedy on the military hierarchy alone, which in principle is only carrying out orders, would be simplistic and reductive. of course, the real responsibility lies elsewhere, especially with the highest officials in the government and politics of the day. what embarrassing truth, what political manipulation has covered up the state secret? the complex international events of those years have in fact raised a host of questions that remain unanswered. on the one hand, the great world powers - the united states and the ussr - were on the verge of a diplomatic rupture. on the other hand, relations between the atlantic alliance and certain islamic countries - libya in particular - were gradually deteriorating, while in italy, the far left in particular was continually questioning italy's participation in nato. finally, what connection can be made between the tragedy in ustica and the one that occurred a month or so later at the bologna station? we have tabled a motion for a resolution precisely to emphasize the importance of these factors, which are not mentioned in the joint motion for a resolution. nevertheless, even if we consider that the joint motion for a resolution gives a little too much priority to the air missile hypothesis rather than the bomb, and, above all, even if we consider that this proposal is far too lenient and diplomatic towards the italian political authorities, we agree that it is necessary to invite all the member states of the european union to cooperate in order to provide all the necessary elements to allow the investigations to be deepened, in a timely and adequate manner, in order to identify the perpetrators, the mandators and the motives of this absurd tragedy.
- (it) mr president, the ustica accident is one of the darkest pages in the history of justice, not only in italy but also and above all in europe. in the course of these 19 years, we have experienced many setbacks in the search for the truth, which no one has been able to reveal, in particular, because of the complicity of those who have no interest in the truth being revealed, who have ignored the legitimate rights of the victims' families and violated the fundamental principles of our democracies. we do not want to make a political reading and allow a tragedy that has caused so much suffering to be exploited. let us leave it to the judiciary to uncover the truth, the truth that everyone should know, not just the victims' parents. i do not know whether, apart from the results recently obtained by the italian judiciary, other scenarios will emerge in the future, as we have been accustomed to in recent years with the ustica accident. but today we are faced with a verdict that the accident on 27 june 1980 was caused by a competition between airlines from different countries. parliament must therefore strongly urge the member states and the united states to work together to bring this matter to light. it is certainly worthwhile for our institution to promote an action aimed at... (the president cut the speaker off)
- (it) mr president, as you can see, this debate is almost exclusively attended by members elected in italy, which is significant. several colleagues from different countries asked me what ustica is. and why such an emergency? one question, or rather two more than legitimate questions. ustica, as many of you know, is a small island in the south of the tyrrhenian sea. but why such an emergency ? this emergency is not the result of something that happened today, but of a tragedy that occurred almost 20 years ago. there is urgency because a deputy prosecutor of the italian republic has filed a decree imputing grave responsibility to the high aviation authorities for covering up, keeping silent and not communicating what they knew, so that it was not possible to shed light on the accident that occurred almost 20 years ago. what happened? what happened? a plane that had left bologna, my hometown, two hours late never made it to its destination. he never made it to palermo. many believe that the missile was launched during a military operation in the area where the plane was flying. well, right after the accident, in the days that followed, the weeks that followed, the years that followed, an extraordinary criminal policy was pursued to cover up the evidence, to silence the truth, to make sure that the truth never came out. why was this policy followed? that is why we must reexamine this question, while the italian judiciary has entered, perhaps belatedly, into the last part of its work. since it seems that aircraft belonging to member states or nato may have been involved in this operation, we ask that the member states contribute to the transmission of information, because there is no longer any reason to withhold it, to hide it, to keep it secret, so that the light is really shed on this matter and the whole truth is revealed. at the heart of the matter, the parents of 81 victims want nothing more than the truth, justice. it would be a service to all european democracy because this is not just an italian affair.
- (it) mr president, on the night of 27 june 1980 off the coast of ustica, 81 innocent european citizens, travelling from bologna to palermo, lost their lives in a military operation involving the civilian airliner on board. a few minutes after the tragedy, the military and intelligence services of the countries involved in the military operation - the italians first - began a gigantic and shameful operation of concealing, if not destroying, evidence, in order to prevent the judicial authorities from shedding light on what really happened in the skies over ustica. the european union and the parliament have an institutional duty to defend the interests of european citizens and not those of governments, nato or the united states. the citizens of europe, and the 81 european families of the victims of the ustica tragedy, have the right to expect help from us to ensure that justice is done. we therefore have a duty to ask that strong pressure be put on the states concerned to reveal everything they know. it is also in our best interests because it is the only way we can prevent something like this from happening again in europe and elsewhere. over the next five years, we will work towards establishing a common area of freedom, security and justice. to shed light on this matter would be a great step forward in that direction.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, with more than 80 dead, almost 20 years of investigation, and 15 victims who could be linked to this tragedy - during or after the investigations - the ustica tragedy must make us reflect on three key points: transparency, responsibility and the arrogance of a certain military power and not only military power. perhaps to help us understand this tragedy better, i will refer to the accident that took place in cermes in the dolomites, where an american military plane cut the cable of a cable car. twenty people fell with the cable car cabin and lost their lives. in this case, we know what happened because there were witnesses, but responsibility has not yet been clearly established in this tragedy either. i wonder first of all whether italy is the ideal place to carry out such experiments, tests or even training for war or military aircraft, even though this country is of strategic importance for europe. i think the nevada desert is a much more suitable place, since italy is too populated. it should also be said that the parents of the victims have the right to know why, how and when their children, parents or relatives died. that is why they are asking - and we are asking - for help and for full transparency. the italian, french, british and american governments, as well as the secretary-general of the united nations, must help to shed light on these tragedies, especially the tragedy of ustica.
- (it) mr president, after almost 20 years and despite the work of the italian judiciary and the association of the victims' families, we still do not know the truth about the ustica tragedy, a tragedy which has struck the italian public opinion but also the european public opinion. the reluctance and lack of cooperation of some countries, even those belonging to the european union and the alliance that guaranteed the security of europe in those years, made the investigations difficult. the mystery surrounding this disaster has raised serious doubts about italian democracy and the independence of italy itself. however, various scenarios were considered by a judgment of the italian judiciary, scenarios which would involve the conduct of military operations on the same route as the dc9 which sank in the mediterranean that evening. so there is a problem of transparency. parliament has already referred to transparency in decisions taken in its first weeks of activity and public opinion has a right to have confidence in political and military institutions. we therefore believe that it is right for the european parliament to ask the member states which can help to establish the truth to provide the judiciary with all the documents necessary to definitively establish responsibility in this case. that is the moral and political meaning of this joint resolution and the reason for its urgency.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the accident in italy in 1980 was a catastrophe for many victims. as is common in the italian justice system, nothing certain has been declared, 19 years after the tragedy. as the previous speakers have also pointed out, for the past 20 years, military units, institutions, governments and nations have been in the grip of doubt and uncertainty as a result of a very serious event. the lack of certainty fuels prejudice and summary judgments. the victims, their families, the entire international community have a right to know the truth, not in 20 years or more, but as soon as possible. parliament must force all the states concerned and all the institutions to close this chapter, which is one of the many italian mysteries that remain unanswered and whose responsibilities are at a high level, such as collusion. the italian and international communities will be grateful to this parliament and will once again place their trust in the institutions, also in memory of so many innocent victims.
- (it) mr president, today's debate in this house is also an opportunity to underline the very serious and unjustifiable delay with which the judiciary took action after 20 years of investigation. this delay has deeply wounded the great will, the great thirst for truth not only of the relatives of the victims but also of entire communities affected by this tragic event. so while i certainly welcome the invitation to the countries allegedly involved to work together to find the truth, i also ask the european parliament not to forget this matter at the most delicate moment, that of the public debate, in order to discover the truth. i also ask parliament to continue to ensure that justice is finally done and that the whole truth is finally known, as the italian and european communities are demanding.
- (it) mr president, we agree that this discussion should take on a european dimension because, in our opinion, the problem of ustica, with its deaths and the continuing polemics that have not ceased in our country but also at international level, deserves clarification, and this clarification must take place. if we all want to be european citizens, if we all want a common destiny, we must think that this is not just an italian problem, but a problem of the international community. it must be examined and resolved at this level. we are asking that military activities be coordinated with civilian activities in a definite and transparent manner. this is the transparency that the citizens want, this is the justice that we want, this is the justice that the citizens, the people who have endured this terrible loss, and the international community want. we want serious cooperation between political and military activities: we want justice to be done. like the cermes disaster, we want the ustica tragedy to be treated not only as an italian problem but also as an international one. it also deserves to be brought to light, and we must have deep respect for the work of the judiciary, which must succeed in establishing clearly and completely what the responsibilities are and who should be responsible for them.
- (it) madam president, in the last few days the italian press has revealed a scandal: the mitrokhin archive scandal in connection with a spying case. as one of the members who was voted out of office by this parliament, i have tried to understand the meaning of the term 'affinities'. in the wake of the scandal that has been reported in the press, i have learned that two distinguished members of the european parliament are involved in this affair. i would therefore like to know whether the term 'affinities' also covers the relations between the two groups to which they belong and the kgb.
the rapporteur. - (it) madam president, it is perhaps too much to expect silence when one is speaking in a parliamentary assembly. a little whispering is enough. madam president, the report and the proposal for a decision which i am presenting to you and which i am briefly illustrating on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs deal with the application of the interinstitutional agreement on the procedures for investigations relating to the fight against fraud. the president of parliament himself asked us to present this report. i would add that we are taking the opinion of the committee on budgetary control into account. i would like to remind you of the very simple facts. on 6 may 1999, the european parliament voted in plenary to adopt this interinstitutional agreement. on 25 may 1999, the president of parliament, mr gil-robles, the president of the council and the president of the commission signed the agreement. the council and the commission adopted the necessary decisions within their respective spheres of competence on 25 may and 2 june respectively. parliament is very late. the delay can of course be explained by the interruption caused by the elections and the opening of the new parliament. we must therefore act without further delay to avoid any misunderstanding about our willingness to cooperate fully with the more correct and rigorous conduct of investigations in the fight against fraud. the point is to introduce a new, very short, article 9c, in accordance with article 186c of the regulation. article 9c would make it possible to incorporate the text of the interinstitutional agreement as an annex, to which the necessary technical amendments have been made on the basis of the powers of our institution. i want to avoid any ambiguity and any ambiguity about the respective functions and competences of an institution such as the european parliament and an office such as olaf. in this connection, i would like to point out, madam president, that both recital 5 and the second paragraph of article 1 state very clearly that the provisions of the treaties in general and of the protocol on privileges and immunities in particular are intact and fully respected. i would add that during the debate in the committee on constitutional affairs on 14 october, some concern was expressed about article 2 in particular. all the members of the committee therefore agreed on an amendment which now appears at the end of article 2 as the last paragraph. the text of this amendment reads: 'this article shall apply without prejudice to the confidentiality requirements laid down by law, the treaties or the european parliament's rules of procedure.' i therefore believe, madam president, that this text can be voted on with complete confidence, especially since the committee on constitutional affairs has unanimously approved this report and this proposal for a decision.
- madam president, you have done well to stay on to chair this debate because it is a very important subject. i have noted the consensus that seems to exist in this house on this matter, but i have the impression that there are still a number of us who have doubts and some concerns about the wording of this agreement and this amendment to the rules of procedure. does the creation of an anti-fraud office, logically designed to ensure the proper implementation of the community budget, have anything to do with the introduction of all-round control exercised without discrimination, not only on the executors but also, as someone has already pointed out, on the members of the institutions? i have read the rules for council members. do you really think that the european ministers will accept, beyond the little phrase that has been added, that a real control be exercised over their professional activity? there is an equation here between the official, who is subject to control in the context of the statute, but also in the context of his responsibilities, and the member. i do not want members to be exempt from any control or to be the subject of any questions concerning their activities, including those of a member of the european parliament in the exercise of his mandate, but i am afraid that this agreement will leave doubt and lead to a hasty assimilation, as happened in the last months of 1999, without any backtracking. i would have preferred to wait a little longer, as some groups had proposed at one time, to see things more clearly. i think that the arrangements we have put in place would require further consideration. there is certainly a contradiction between the basic decision and the application of it. we inherited this file; i wonder why it hasn't been declared null and void. this house even decided that a new vote on mr prodi was necessary because the decision had been taken on 4 may. the former parliament adopted a text which has since been amended on 6 may. this bill has the force of law and president gil robles signed it while everyone was campaigning and we are here to enforce it two or three months later. these are things that should make us think. i think that a minimum period of time might make it possible to see things more clearly and to understand better what margin to preserve in the framework of the protocol on privileges and immunities should we all become potential subjects of olaf's decisions or investigations.
- (it) mr president, i have always been a little skeptical of moralist and police behaviour which encourages reporting and which prevents fraud only by creating ever more intrusive control instruments for individuals. we can certainly - my group and i - wholeheartedly support president napolitano's report. the amendment to the rules of procedure and the proposal for a decision are a serious response to a concern which was raised recently and which mr dell'alba was the last to express: not to subject members to excessive and arbitrary controls. i see no reason to delay this decision any further. if such an abuse should occur, the european parliament and its members have ample opportunity to defend themselves. clearer and more transparent internal procedures will of course make things easier. we must have confidence in olaf's future work and we must facilitate its actions. only in this way can we react in a credible way to the use of such instruments. only then can we be effective in dealing with the kind of situations that mrs theato and mr bösch have mentioned today.
- (it) mr president, i should like to begin by greeting commissioner liikanen. this is the first time i have seen him concerned with the problems of the information society and not with the budget. i wish him a good job. i'm very happy about this development. i hope that our vote will make it possible to speed up the procedure as much as possible in order to achieve the recognition, which already exists in practice, of electronic signatures. we are aware that this system is developing very rapidly and that the world of the internet - the world of the participants in the information society - is already well advanced in terms of the validity of contracts and transactions carried out through the electronic system. i would like to stress this: the european parliament could have played a pioneering role in this area, but it did not. our administration has refused to comply with a decision of parliament. we voted for an amendment to the rules of procedure years ago. the amendment was aimed at promoting electronic signatures, particularly in the field of petitions and the use of the ombudsman. this would have allowed petitions to be submitted via the internet, while increasing transparency and the possibilities of appeal to parliament and other institutions, such as the ombudsman. well, despite this amendment, that provision remains essentially dead letter. in fact, it is possible to submit a petition via the internet, but a written confirmation from the authors is always required. it is a fact that this reduces to nothing that possibility. i hope that parliament's will will be strongly expressed in the forthcoming vote. we can therefore immediately put this provision into effect, which would bring greater clarity, greater transparency and greater access to our democratic life for our citizens without delay.
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr harbour, for his in-depth analysis of the common position and for his very concise presentation of the subject under discussion today. the draft proposal for a directive aims to establish construction standards which manufacturers of fuel tanks will have to comply with in order to obtain ec typeapproval. the idea is, in particular, to introduce new provisions in council directive 70/221/eec on plastic fuel tanks for motor vehicles. the provisions will cover areas such as impact resistance, mechanical strength, fuel permeability and fire resistance. safety is of crucial importance when it comes to fuel tanks, especially when new materials and technologies are used. the draft proposal is directly in line with the technical requirements of regulation 34 of the united nations economic commission for europe which deals with fire prevention and more particularly the provisions concerning plastic tanks. the report proposes two amendments, both of which relate to the spill of diesel fuel which can be a serious danger to motorcyclists, especially in combination with wet roads, as mentioned. we fully agree that this is a serious problem from both a safety and environmental point of view and the commission can accept both amendments. in short, the commission can accept all the proposed amendments.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, this is a proposal for a regulation on technical matters, namely the obligation to install speed indicators on 'minor' vehicles, that is to say vehicles with two or three wheels, or even four in certain specific cases. this is still optional today and therefore provides an excuse - especially when it comes to vehicles which are manipulated in a certain way and manipulated in such a way as to allow the highest possible speed - for not respecting the speed regulations and therefore road safety, often causing serious accidents, especially involving young people. the proposal is therefore not strictly technical, but on the contrary, this small set of standards is becoming crucial in civil life. that is why we have put forward proposals and some amendments have been adopted, amendments which focus on the importance of road safety today, not only in the individual member states but also at community level. the delors white paper highlighted this crucial problem and expressed a firm commitment to reduce the number of road accidents, especially the most serious ones, within a few years. this is a moral commitment more than a legal one, a social commitment more than a technical one. we have followed this proposal very carefully. our committee has approved it and has wanted to stress the importance of not following a sectoral approach in the field of road safety, but a more complex and more unitary approach. we need a real package of road safety directives. the amsterdam treaty also makes road safety a community matter. the cross-interest of the car manufacturers gave rise to oppositions that were now defeated. finally, safety has become a fundamental element in the protection of human life and health. this set of regulations must undergo certain changes over time, due to technological innovations, innovations which serve to guarantee this more extensive protection. so how do we plan to change these regulations? this raises a problem which goes beyond the scope of this small proposal and involves a proposal of wider scope: the comitology, which mr harbour mentioned. this is a very important point and i would ask the commission and all members to consider it. our choice is rather innovative in that, by opting for an advisory committee rather than for regulation, we are aiming for a certain balance between the commission and the council. the approach adopted is common, it transcends individual states in a certain way without mortifying them, and it gives the commission a certain competence in matters of coordination and adjustment, in accordance with an approach which goes beyond individual realities which may sometimes oppose some resistance to such delicate aspects. after a first comparison, however, the commission did not seem so indifferent as to be in agreement with the council's ideas. it is clear, in fact, that when it comes to achieving some degree of regulatory compliance, each institution tries to bring the water to its own mill. however, in this case i have the impression - and i ask the commission to confirm this - that the commission and the council are leaning towards a regulatory committee. let's get this straight. i would remind you that this directive already provides for a deadline of 1 july 2001 for all vehicles and 1 july 2002 for mopeds - due to technical difficulties in adjustment - not to mention that we could end up with a conciliation procedure which could postpone the application of this directive indefinitely. the commission could commit itself to producing a transversal proposal, i.e. a more extensive one, which is not limited to this one proposal but which deals with a whole sector, for example the transport sector. the problem is not to extend it to a more general subject, which we shall have to deal with in any case, because the problem of comitology concerns many areas. a set of standards has already been repealed, so we can no longer refer to the old management or regulatory committees or the advisory committee. the commission could therefore adopt a more general position within a relatively short time. if necessary, we can abstain on this type of proposal. this is of course my personal view, which must also be assessed in conjunction with the legal affairs committee, because this objective would obviously be broader and therefore perhaps stronger than the more limited one. otherwise, everyone will go his own way and the institutions will make the decisions democratically.
- (it) mr president, i think mr ferri's recommendation is in the right direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electrical equipment and the use of electrical equipment for the transport of dangerous goods. the speedometer can certainly reduce the number of accidents, since it will serve mainly as a deterrent. secondly, we believe that the extension of the deadline for adoption of the directive, as proposed in the recommendation, can be favourable to industry and allow it to adapt to the technical level. i would like to address a sensitive general theme, however, which the rapporteur, mr ferri, has already mentioned. this report deals directly with one of the most sensitive issues in interinstitutional relations, namely comitology. the implementation of the legislation is carried out by committees. this is very important, no one doubts it. these are very important implementing measures which often interfere with the legislative text and directly influence the way in which community legislation is applied by the member states. in the specific case of road safety - the fundamental theme of the recommendation - we believe that a coordinated general policy between the countries of the union is of interest to all of us, and we would like it to be seen less as a hope than as a necessity, because at the moment it is rather a hope. the legal committee proposes the advisory committee on this directive, which gives the commission the necessary powers to decide on implementing measures, but not without first consulting the representatives of the member states. the european people's party has followed very closely the debate on the method to be used. the commission proposal, which was approved by the council, which provided for the type of 3a regulation, is probably, in my view, abusive. i think that the advisory committee would have brought about a better balance between the institutions. the advisory committee is also the preferred choice of parliament, and has always been so. i would remind you of the positions taken by mr bourlanges and mr di giovanni and by mrs aglietta in the previous legislatures. this is in line with the idea of a complete separation of powers between the legislative and executive branches, and with the aim of ensuring that community interests are better taken into account. however, it is true that the decision of 28 june last profoundly reformed the committee procedure and gave parliament an important role in the field of control, especially with regard to acts adopted under the codecision procedure, regardless of the type of committee. i think, however, that procedure is less important for parliament today than in the past, but i also think that the community institutions must take a comprehensive approach precisely to respect the institutional balance. we can also not support the advisory committee today, provided that the commission undertakes to submit, as soon as possible, a series of proposals to adapt the legislative acts which envisage the so-called comitology procedure in their implementing measures, so that a thorough debate can take place leading to coherent decisions in the various areas of community competence. we call on the commission to submit a proposal as soon as possible and ask it to be prepared to discuss these options in the same spirit of openness as it has shown so far. i agree with mr ferri. in this case, i think we could postpone the decision on the advisory committee for the time being and allow this directive to be adopted without delay, since the council of ministers has indicated its willingness to open a conciliation procedure if the advisory committee is approved.
- (it) mr president, i am very pleased with this report and i would like to say that to the rapporteur. the directive contains important substantive elements. i have only been on the legal affairs committee for a few days and have therefore not been able to follow the whole of the directive. i have had the opportunity to become acquainted with it only during the last few days. the previous speaker said that this type of installation is very common in europe. this is certainly the case in my country, whose territory includes almost all the alps and the apennines. this structure, this activity, therefore, concerns us fully. as i said, we approve the text of the directive and we share it. it gives the green light to the free movement of technology in this field and the free movement of supplies. as we said a moment ago, we are opening the way to competition in this sector, which is fundamental in terms of technology and safety, because competition is what it is: it serves to advance technology. i have read the text of the directive carefully and i have noticed some technical problems. the directive is a principle, it provides precise, uniform guidelines and harmonizes within the member states what should be a fundamental objective, namely safety. however, from the point of view of technology, safety is a matter of fundamental importance, as are the technical data, parameters, characteristics and materials used. the levels of handling and the time required for programming are also fundamental. the technical provisions which will follow this directive - and which will be laid down at the highest level, following other meetings - will certainly, in my view, constitute the fundamental element for defining the application of this directive in all the member states. in this connection, and on the basis of knowledge of all the parameters which will be examined from a strictly technical point of view, i would ask, if possible, that parliament, and the commission in particular, be kept informed of the situation and i would like to know whether the commission can explain to us what the consequences of the application of this directive will be at a strictly technical level.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, as everyone knows, the european coal and steel community was the first institutional nucleus around which the european edifice was gradually built. it has also made a significant contribution to the coal and steel industry system in these years, both in terms of social aid and research. the ecsc treaty is drawing ever closer to its expiry, which is set for 2002. parliament therefore has to make fundamental choices: how to manage the last phase of the treaty in terms of budgetary choices? will there be adequate attention to enterprises and workers in the sector, even after 2002? what liaison actions can be envisaged between the ecsc budget and the general budget of the union to facilitate the transition to the new procedures for access to finance for potential beneficiaries? the committee on budgets calls on parliament to give a clear answer to these three questions. it expects parliament to respect its prerogatives and to be prepared to encourage, through a dialogue which we hope will be productive with the commission and the council, the development of the experience gained so far with the treaty. the committee on budgets unanimously proposes the following - and i thank all my colleagues, from the president to all the representatives of the political groups, for the unanimous support they have given us -: 1. to restore the amounts in the 1999 budget; 2. allocate appropriations for the coal and steel sectors according to need, in particular by increasing social aid for coal and research funds for steel; 3. to request additional appropriations to finance measures to promote health and safety in mines in the coal sector and to ensure the development of clean technologies and high value-added products in the steel sector; 4. with a view to enlargement, to request that part of the phare programme be devoted to activities in the coal and steel sectors of the applicant countries; 5. strongly reiterate the call for reductions in administrative expenditure, which is still at the clearly disproportionate level of 19 years ago, and identify the real needs for human resources in relation to the union's current and future political priorities in this sector; 6. to insist that the management of the research fund for coal and steel, into which the interests of the reserves and provisions, as verified by the accounting officer, will be transferred, be entrusted to a specific body - agency or foundation - in accordance with the wish already expressed by parliament, in order to ensure a certain visibility of the actions in the coal and steel sectors and to guarantee the full participation of industry and workers in the use and programming of the research fund; 7. confirm that the transfer of the ecsc assets to the general budget will involve budgetary entry on revenue lines as well as on expenditure lines and will therefore require a technical adjustment of the current financial perspective; 8. the provide for pilot projects 'bridging' between the general budget and the ecsc budget with the aim of facilitating the transition between ecsc-funded activities and union programmes, in particular as regards the structural funds and research. the commission will have to attach particular importance to actions for which no adequate instrument has yet been provided at community level. on the basis of these general indications, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask parliament to vote as uniformly and as broadly as possible. this would certainly strengthen our resolve.
- mr president, first of all i would like to warmly congratulate and thank the rapporteur for this courageous and innovative draft budget in many respects. the rapporteur's merit is therefore that he has achieved this through a budgetary procedure which has been carried out in the most peaceful manner, even though parliament is now making a serious challenge to the council, and i think that this challenge is worth taking up. i am, of course, talking about the financial perspectives and the need for europe to prove itself worthy of the role it wants to play in the world, not to make a pharmacist's policy with the union budget. in 1999, we had a budget - i say this to the council members in particular, and i say this again because it concerns us all - in 1999, madam commissioner, we had a budget of 96 billion euros. this year, which is a key year, with the war in kosovo, the events in timor, the earthquakes in turkey, the commitments of a union which wants to be more responsible on the international scene, the council is proposing a budget of 92 billion, 4 billion less than the budget of the previous year. the edinburgh prospects set us an ever higher ceiling and the council gives us an ever smaller budget, which means that we will have to cut back on development measures, for example on human rights and many other measures, to finance the priorities we set ourselves, and it is not our fault that europe is the great money maker of foreign policy. we will pay where others make politics and i hope that will change. so our parliament will do well on thursday to ask you to go beyond these financial perspectives. we want to finance reconstruction in kosovo? i'm all right. we want to help turkey's integration, also by meeting its immediate and dramatic needs. we have a new nation that stands on the international stage after all the massacres that have taken place? well, let's fund these policies, please. we have an interinstitutional agreement which allows us, when exceptional events require it, to go beyond the financial perspective. that's an extra €1.5 billion. it will still be less than the 1999 budget, but i think the european citizens will understand very well that this effort is not only logical but perfectly possible at the level of our member states' budgets. so we are doing well to do so and i think parliament should go all the way and ask for the old article 203 of the budget to be used if necessary. a word about bat. i think we are also being very pragmatic here. i thank the rapporteur very much. we have an interim solution which i believe will enable us, through dialogue with the commission, to agree on a definitive solution. i point out this pragmatic aspect of our report for the year 2000 and compare it to a somewhat more boutist policy where we were making mini-budgets and where we ended up with a thousand or two thousand bats that we could not manage because in the meantime we had cut without thinking about the consequences. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur. on political parties, i would say that, frankly, asking the commission to establish the status of political parties - i am referring to the last speech - is neither fair nor dignified.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr bourlanges for the competence he has shown and the great balance with which he has prepared this budget. i cannot, however, fail to stress that this year's budget will not be sufficient to meet the objectives which were set at the outset, namely the recovery of the union's economy and, above all, the increase in employment. if we cut budgets by 10% from the outset and hit sectors such as industry, trade, transport and, in some cases, agriculture, we will not be able to revive our economy and thus increase its competitiveness in relation to competitors such as the united states and the signatory states of nafta. let us not forget that these are our real competitors and that only fiscal policies geared to investment protection and economic growth will enable us to prepare the ground for a union that is certainly stronger from a structural and economic point of view. i therefore propose that in the next period we analyse the programmes and their respective credit lines, not for periods of four, five or six years, but for more limited periods: one to two years at the most. the logic of the market and of investment in a globalised economy no longer corresponds to the criteria on which the budget was structured. in reality, everything moves much faster in the market, in a much more competitive atmosphere. this will enable us to intervene without delay in specific sectors and at the same time to check whether the path followed with our budgetary policy is adequate. in short, this budget must be revised to include new lines of credit for international assistance. i therefore agree with the line indicated by mr bourlanges in his report, but without omitting anything from the other lines of credit already allocated. at the same time, however, we must try to change the content and logic of the budget in the face of the challenges that the union will have to face in the coming years and, above all, in the face of the real enemy to be defeated within the member states: unemployment.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to say that i am happy to endorse the substantive points in mr bourlanges' report. mr bourlanges faced a double paradox: that of a budget debate focused on expenditure but not on revenue, and that of a budget subject to the dual and contrasting pressure of an increase in the tasks of the european union and an objective trend-setting contraction in the rate of european gdp devoted to the union's budget. we have been told how to overcome this paradox: we must not accept that tomorrow's priorities are financed by the sacrifices and priorities of today and yesterday and, therefore, we must finance new, unavoidable priorities, external actions, by revising upwards the financial prospects of category 4. i hope that the european parliament will follow the rapporteur's instructions and that the commission and the council will accept the consequences. however, i do not think that everything can be summed up in awkward negotiations aimed at a possible compromise between new resources and sacrifices of old priorities. this would be blind, largely hypocritical behaviour, inconsistent with the irrevocable prospect of an extension of powers and a geographical enlargement of the union's strategy. this perspective comes from the implementation of the amsterdam treaty, but even more from the evolution of the global balances following the kosovo war. europe has few guarantees of stability and prosperity, which must be respected, including an active presence of the european union on the world stage and a firm determination to establish progressive enlargement policies also for south-east europe and the balkans, in the perspective of virtual and parallel enlargement of peace and security that president prodi has shown us. in this context, a courageous choice is required. the assumption underlying the bourlanges proposal must be confronted by everyone. we must tell the king is naked ! today, the european parliament, the commission and the council must assume their responsibilities and open a broad and thorough debate in the presence of the european taxpayers. in short, we must ask ourselves whether the time has not come to allocate increasing financial resources to the european institutions. it is not a question of increasing public spending in europe, but all european countries will have to be prepared to pay the union the resources corresponding to the actual transfer of powers. the increase in the community budget must and can imply a contraction in the national budgets. the task ahead is enormous, and we cannot avoid it any longer, because the credibility of all the european institutions is at stake. i hope that parliament's work will follow this direction.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is a consolidated budget marked by choices that have been repeated over the years, a budget that has not yet shown sufficient dynamism. the broad outlines have been immediately revised, but they are not up to the standards of a structure without conditions which may be of a different nature: national conditions, which are partly acceptable; conditions of a sector, not to say a corporation, which are less acceptable; conditions of lobbying, categories, subjects and structures. the budgetary language is not a poor language because it is made up of figures, but because it takes little account of the evolution of society, its needs, its expectations and its hopes. the union's great role is not limited to producing political and legislative acts; it also concerns investment, management and expenditure, instruments which are increasingly used not to satisfy high expectations but to silence them. the expectation of contribution becomes the strongest link of many communities, not just local ones; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we are not at all happy with some of the choices made in the programme, but we are prepared to accept them on one condition: that the expenditure be useful both in a general and subjective way, and in a personal and collective way. it's not always like that. criminal cases are not necessary for unjustified management. it is possible to misuse taxpayer money in any orthodoxy. the amount of community expenditure is considerable and there could be many beneficiaries and obliged to pay. if it is not, it is often because brussels seems far from europe and is not always aware of what is happening in europe. the control officers sometimes seem distant, lacking in coordination and organisation. let us give them more resources, as they have been urging, and the results will certainly be more conclusive. trust is great, but it's just as important to choose what happens. finally, a word of recommendation. we must reduce the bureaucratic pressure of the community by reducing the number of officials acting as fictitious controllers, committees, commissions, travel, constraints and regulations. more passion and transparency are needed. as a new member of parliament, i have contacted - and this is just one example - the european investment bank. i felt as if i were facing a sanctuary for highly privileged, all-powerful subjects, operating outside the rules of democracy and therefore free from any constraints on the citizens.
- (it) mr president of the central bank, i speak on behalf of the italian radicals. as regards this first report from the european central bank, it should be borne in mind that the euro is only in its infancy. you yourself, mr president, and the central committee of the european bank bear a great responsibility. the huhne report certainly contains some positive elements, particularly when it asks the european central bank to provide further information on the reasons given for the decisions taken by means of the publication of a succinct minutes including the divergent views. however, mr president, i think there is something in this report which is absolutely unacceptable. i refer to paragraph 11 which says that parliament 'considers the 50 basis point cut in interest rates decided on 8 april 1999 to be appropriate and particularly welcomes the reasons given', which suggests that the interest rate cut was in favour of the general economic policies of the community. as regards methodology, i wonder why parliament - discussing the 1998 european central bank report - feels the need to insert an element of approval for a specific measure which the european central bank will report on in its next report, the 1999 report. furthermore, how can we envisage assessing the effects of the manoeuvre on rates after only a few weeks? and what sense would it make for parliament to express a judgment on a single act of the central bank? to get to the heart of the matter, i would say that this approval is completely out of place. a reset of interest rates to the upside is imminent - as was suggested yesterday by the central bank's chief economist, mr issing, and vice-president noyer. does this not mean that the decision taken in april was a mistake, since there have been no unforeseen shocks in the meantime? as for the increase in longterm interest rates, is it not due to the decline in credibility caused precisely by this decline? it is believed - and this is much more than suspicion - that political pressure has conditioned this decision - think, for example, of oskar lafontaine - and that parliament, by approving it today, wants to confirm a certain orientation, an orientation which wants to subordinate the european central bank to the requirements of politics or even electoral interests. in my view, the central bank's strategy should be focused exclusively on money and prices. it would be suicidal to think - as other speakers have confirmed today - that european leaders can press for the central bank to compensate for their inability to revive the economy through structural reforms, the liberalisation of markets, first of all the labour market, and budgetary austerity which must be accompanied by a reduction in taxation on individuals and companies.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must first of all analyse the first period of activity of the ecb. the latter started operations a year ago with the hope of becoming, in time, the main institution responsible for intervening in the economies of the union's member countries. in fact, on the one hand we have all seen that this institution - and at the same time, indirectly, the union as a whole - has played a major role in recent times in terms of economic policy and, above all, employment policy. on the other hand, this has not been enough to protect the euro from speculation and to prevent us from weakening in the face of our competitors - whom we must not exclude - the united states and the countries which have signed the nafta. in fact, after a strong start on the money markets, the euro was the object of speculative attacks after a few months. we must therefore understand that the major political, budgetary and monetary strategies must not be limited to the novelty of the single currency but must take account of the long term in order to give stability to the euro and the member states, and above all to revive the union's economy and develop employment, an aspect which concerns us so much in this parliament. we must therefore continue along the lines indicated by president duisenberg with regard to the role of this institution and the institution itself. at the same time, however, price stability will have to be monitored in order to control the main scourge - which we all know - inflation. at the same time we must keep interest rates low enough to stimulate investment and to revive the european industrial sector by making it more competitive with other countries. we will thus give a certain prestige to a new institution such as the ecb and our international credibility will be strengthened in political terms.
- (it) madam president, i should like to say how disappointed i am with the results of the tampere summit, and i do not think i am alone in this. the conclusions of this summit could have been worse, much worse, i admit, especially for third country nationals who are in europe or who aspire to come to europe, driven by necessity. the fact remains, however, that we have lost a good opportunity to begin the practical construction of an area of freedom, security and justice. the conclusions of this summit seem to be nothing more than a summary of the preparatory documents which have been circulating in parliament for a long time: a long list of good intentions which we can only approve. some of the clearer decisions, however, concern me and leave me puzzled. this is just one example among many: cooperation to combat juvenile delinquency in urban areas is now a priority. we find this rather strange and irrelevant. indeed, to achieve real results, states would do better to join their cooperative efforts to defeat the large-scale organized crime that is increasingly operating on an international scale. only the legislative proposals that will be put forward will help us to understand things better. in the meantime, we reiterate our concern that we may well be able to create an inner safe space by means of a solid enclosure to the outside.
- (it) madam president, we must once again examine a council document which makes a distinction between the presentation and the implementation of great and noble principles. tampere is not only not building europe - the decisions taken are far too timid and insignificant - it is also heralding the creation of the europe that we - and the european citizens, in our opinion - do not want. the area of freedom, security and justice so advertised is nothing but the affirmation of a bureaucratic and repressive conception of politics which talks so much about security and neglects the aspects of freedom and justice. this is illustrated by the long series of intergovernmental conferences, dublin, europol, eurodac, eurojust, mutual legal assistance, which exclude the democratic control of parliament as well as the commission and the court of justice. you have, once again, decided that it is up to the bureaucracy to define policy, and not the other way around as is the case in the great democracies. having created the european asylum bureaucracy with the dublin convention and eurodac, perhaps one day you will finally decide on a european asylum and immigration policy. how can we fight organized crime with the tools you are offering us? europol in particular: because of its original characteristics and the fact that it escapes democratic and judicial control, this body continues, thanks to you, to absorb new competences. in this sense, europol has the characteristics of the phenomenon it wants to combat. as regards the measures to combat drugs for the period 2000-2004, the council now urges us to adopt this document without further delay. however, as the commission acknowledges, there has been no systematic and rigorous evaluation of the alleged results of the previous plan. the commission not only fails to say that the objective is far from being achieved, but it also notes an increase in drug trafficking and consumption, which means that a significant part of the resources spent so far have not been used to fight drugs but have contributed to their spread. what about liberties? the council proposed that article 13 of the amsterdam treaty be applied to the minimum extent possible and proposed that an extra-institutional body be entrusted with the drawing up of a charter of fundamental rights. ladies and gentlemen of the council, this is not the europe we want: an intergovernmental, undemocratic, non-liberal europe, which you have the institutional duty to represent. we want, like ernesto rossi and altiero spinelli, the creation of a federal united states of europe, respecting rights, freedom and democracy!
- (it) madam president, the tampere summit finally agreed on the need to harmonize asylum and immigration policies, to strengthen investigative cooperation and to establish a european judicial area. this is what the alliance has been advocating in this house for at least eight years, and we are therefore pleased that the fifteen have reached a beginning of a common position. we hope that the speeches will give way to action. one thing is clear: there can be no social peace without security. one way to combat crime is to strictly control illegal immigration. immigration now affects all european countries. we must regulate and control it in all its aspects through common standards to avoid it leading to imbalances and tensions within our national societies. the creation of a european judicial area implies the elimination of inequalities between the legal systems of the member states and the modification, in this field, of the image of a europe at several speeds. a justice area will give form and substance to the third pillar and will enable us to fight more vigorously against organised crime, whatever its tragic nature: trafficking in women and children, paedophilia, prostitution of minors, production and trafficking of drugs, exploitation of prostitution, all fuelled in recent times by illegal immigration. ladies and gentlemen, i think it is hard to imagine that all this could happen in a relatively short time if we do not also send a clear message to the national states. in italy alone, in 1998, 130 000 criminal orders were issued, and the judges themselves say that the criminal procedure code is a failure and that the italian judicial system is bankrupt. we will only be able to contribute to europe's growth and prevent the spread of crime if we have common standards. to do this, we will also have to face another problem: how to prevent the application of safety standards from being uniform in all member states, given the opening of the frontiers?
- (it) mr president, tampere wanted to lay the foundations for the construction of a european area of freedom, security and justice. this objective is important because it involves the fundamental values of our western civilization. we therefore look forward to the declarations of good will being replaced by real and concrete political guidelines. european citizens now agree on the need for a common immigration and asylum policy. we must focus on an open and secure european union that can guarantee partnerships with the countries of origin of migration flows and define common development policies with the countries of origin and transit. we need a common european asylum system which establishes minimum conditions for common reception in the first instance and, subsequently, a uniform status for asylum seekers. i am concerned about one thing: no effective measures of solidarity have been defined by the member states, alongside common standards, in the event of an emergency, such as the massive flow of people from albania and the balkans who sought to enter italy as a result of the political crisis in those countries. the mediterranean in general and the adriatic in particular, which constitute an external border of the union and not just of italy, are examples. the commission's invitation to consider the possibility of a budget reserve in this area will be important but it remains insufficient. the european union as a whole must respond to the considerable influx of non-eu immigrants by means of solid solidarity action towards the countries most at risk, in particular italy. solidarity action and better control of migration flows are important instruments in the fight against organised crime and, above all, against human trafficking. the problem of the exploitation of women and children for prostitution and the links between these groups and the world of drug trafficking seriously jeopardize public security, but they also represent, from a human point of view, a tragic and unfortunate fact which requires specific intervention on our part. all these and other measures relating to the security of the citizens of the european union must be undertaken in full respect for the fundamental rights of the people living in the territory of the union, the key to the future european area of freedom and security being precisely the inalienable fundamental rights.
- (it) mr barnier, the dehaene report has its bright and dark spots, as almost everything in life. i would add that its ideas have been put forward by parliament for decades, so this report does not seem very original to me. i should now like to take advantage of the short time i have to speak to invite you and president prodi to reflect on the risks involved in choosing governments as the only interlocutors, in trying to convince only governments, especially the most reluctant ones, and in always trying to add a touch of realism and credibility to proposals which are often ambiguous and modest. i am concerned that even the wise, who are free from all obligations, are seeking to reach a compromise as a matter of priority and want to play a role which is not theirs. i hope that the commission, and you, commissioner, will have the courage to take your proposal further, that you will be able to present something more exciting than a simple rearrangement of confusing texts from the treaties, the need to define a constitutional chapter in the founding texts of the european union. i regret that president dehaene did not have the courage. i also hope that the commission will be able to break free from the inefficient and anachronistic pillar structure and to reject categorically the truly bizarre idea put forward by the wise men: to legitimize the codecision process in favour of parliament only for the first pillar. the commission has a challenge: it must have the courage to seek alliances and consensus outside the organs of power, among the people, within this parliament. otherwise, we will all be losers.
commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at this stage and in view of the constraints of your agenda, i shall simply say a few words. the rules of the game were clear for today's debate. this debate was of great interest to the commission, but it also had a limit since neither the college nor you have so far defined your positions and proposals precisely. it was therefore an exchange of views on the dehaene report that president prodi had wanted to initiate and inform this debate. i listened very carefully, mr president, to all the speakers, and i thank them for their attention and contributions. we shall take these questions, these suggestions, and sometimes even criticisms or fears, into account in the few days before 10 november. that is the day when the college will adopt its first political position, and then we will have a debate on this first commission policy document. after that, we will have a lot of work to do between 10 november and the start of the negotiations, since the commission will have to present a document which i myself said would be a strong, comprehensive, structured political document to be useful to the negotiators and to facilitate the negotiations. it is during this period that we will have to work closely with the committee on constitutional affairs and with your assembly. i would therefore like to conclude, mr president, by thanking the european parliament for this first exchange of views on the forthcoming intergovernmental conference and the ambitions with which we must approach this intergovernmental conference.
- (it) mr president, this is a procedural motion. i simply want to confirm that once again the radical members present in this house will not take part in the vote. despite the goodwill of quite a number of members - for which i am grateful - this institution has not solved the problem of non-attached members. this is intolerable from the administrative and financial point of view, but even more so from the point of view of parliamentary prerogatives: we are in fact unable to table an amendment or a resolution. mr president, like you, we have been democratically elected and we represent two and a half million european citizens. however, in order to be able to table a resolution during the previous part-session, we were forced to sell it to another parliamentary group. this situation is simply intolerable! we're taking this case to court, and i think we're gonna win. mr president, a month has already passed and the rapporteur for the amendment has only just been appointed. we are all familiar with the 'lentocracy' of this parliament: it takes an average of 21 months for a report to pass from the committee on constitutional affairs to the assembly! well, ladies and gentlemen, we shall not, during these 21 months, simply push buttons, if you will allow us, to vote on resolutions which we have not even had the opportunity to put to your vote. i hope that many of you, who realize that the dignity and prerogatives of the member must be respected, will support those who have been elected and who, like you, want to defend the dignity of this parliament. we are against groups and against your bureaucracies ! (applause) we are members of parliament and we represent european citizens in the same way as you! (applause) i would like to thank
commission - mr president, following on from mr lechner's speech, i would like to say that we have no difficulty with the suggestion he has just made concerning amendment no 1. we ourselves had a difficulty that parliament had with amendment no 6, since it seemed to be in contradiction with article 133 of the treaty. so for that reason too we could not approve this amendment, which mr lechner himself has just recommended should be rejected.
commission - mr president, none of the amendments are a problem for us.
commission - mr president, without wishing to delay your debate, we had no problem approving all the amendments this time too. we had a problem with amendment no 5, which you yourself said was inadmissible.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, i just want to say that in my humble opinion we have just lost an opportunity because this amendment no 5 deals with an important point in the relations between the commission and the council, and in particular the problem of comitology. the previous legislation has been repealed. as regards the procedures for amending the various regulations we are adopting, particularly on certain sensitive and important matters, it is therefore urgent to take a position in the event that the opinion or the commission's or the council's opinion should prevail. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it would have been appropriate to have voted on this amendment because it could have been very useful, especially in a rather delicate area such as road safety and therefore the protection of citizens' lives. i would therefore recommend to the commission - i do not know whether commissioner liikanen is present, but we have already discussed this in the general debate - that if we are to present a framework regulation covering all the subjects, we should act with a certain degree of urgency in order to deal in an organic and thorough manner with a very delicate problem from an institutional point of view.
- (it) mr president, i listened to the speech by commissioner diamantopoulou, to whom i am grateful. for my group, the union for a europe of nations, the question arises in a rather delicate context because on the one hand there is a risk of defining the premises of non-free competition and on the other hand of limiting the action of the member states in this area, which is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. a concrete principle which can justify union intervention in this context is the principle of the possible social unrest that may be caused by restructuring of undertakings within the community and, in any case, within the member states, a principle which was already provided for in the treaty of rome in 1957. all this is to ensure that future union policies, which are geared to ever greater social cohesion and integration, do not prove to be ineffective, even in part. since the union is seeking to adopt a common economic and, if possible, industrial policy, it would be appropriate, in our view, for the union to be able to express its views in particular on those restructurings which have involved or involve a participation, even financial, of the member states. i would also like to stress that the union must subject its interventions in this area to stricter controls and must define mechanisms for monitoring both participation - and in any case the information to the trade union representatives of the workers - and the effective success, not only economic but also social, of the interventions, because the aid granted by the union to enterprises has not always led to the stable development of the activities of enterprises and the protection of their employment level. here it is appropriate to ask for a sanction to be applied which also includes the full reimbursement of the sums invested by the union itself. this principle must be applied even if the aid is intended for a non-community company. in this case, a cooperation agreement with the country where the company is located - if it does not already exist - can not only better define and integrate the union's interventions in favour of that country, but it can also - in the new desirable eventuality - facilitate the enforcement of the said sanction.
- (it) mr president, we are all aware that redundancies hide human tragedies which european governments - inspired by the european social model - would do well to deal with more carefully. i think, however, that the debate today has taken on a lunar dimension since we are discussing restructuring of companies and what profits can be tolerated and what profits cannot be tolerated within the great liberal europe. i believe that if the ideas of many speakers today were to prevail, we would be preparing a europe of poverty and unemployment rather than a europe of employment and wealth. what sense does it make to say that michelin's profits have risen by 17%, if it is not stated whether they are lower or higher than those of bridgestone or goodyear or other competitors, if it is not stated that michelin is a company with a turnover per employee of $106 as against $141 for goodyear, if it is not stated that renault - a company in which the french government has a decisive stake, if i am not mistaken - goes to japan, buys a nissan company there - and is obliged, in order not to close it, to lay off 21 000 workers who, however, being japanese, are of less interest to us? i think we must question the european social model. it illustrates the europe of unemployment, of taxes, of a europe where the trade unions have enormous power, which blocks economic growth, prevents millions of unemployed italians, french and germans, as well as millions of immigrants, from finding work, in order to protect situations which are often nothing but privileged situations. parliament asked president duisenberg yesterday to adapt monetary policy to the growth needs of a europe which does not know how to reform itself, does not know how to reform the economies and does not know how to liberalise markets, particularly the labour market. if this is the europe we are preparing, we are hypocrites because we are preparing a europe characterized by unemployment and the closure of businesses. when corporations are gone, we may not even have tears left to cry.
- (it) mr president, we are here once again - and this is not the first time, unfortunately - to discuss a very serious problem: the dismissal of thousands of workers as a result of unilateral decisions by one company. the michelin case, which i will not go into in detail, as others have already done so, gives us the opportunity to have this debate. restructuring is taking place in many member states - and the history of recent years reminds us of this. history is full of cases of restructuring, transfer, closure of firms - mr wurtz has mentioned a few - which not only reduce the level of employment but also jeopardise the economic and social cohesion of the regions affected, creating a climate of social insecurity among workers, a climate which in no way promotes development and growth. it is true that companies need to strengthen their competitiveness, especially in this period of economic globalisation, but this process must be able to combine the need for flexibility within companies with the security of workers. these processes, these phenomena, which are becoming more frequent, must be regulated by means of available instruments which require some improvement. the commissioner, whom i thank for the clarity of her speech, spoke of intelligent restructuring. the instruments which exist to prevent and manage these phenomena must be used at both national and european level because the loss of jobs, mr pronk, is a european problem: it is not a problem of individual member states alone, it is a problem of all of us. in particular, i believe that the matter we are debating today should give the commission the opportunity to make a commitment today before the european parliament to carry out an evaluation, a review of the directive on dismissals and the closure of undertakings, in order to achieve better protection of jobs. the review of the directive on works councils should also be accelerated, and information and consultation should be improved. i would add, however, that a fundamental problem must also be inserted in this directive, that of sanctions: the rules must be respected, and those who do not respect them must be held accountable.
- (it) mr president, the north american senate voted against the treaty banning nuclear tests. in doing so, it has shown itself to be irresponsible and at the same time it has assumed a certain responsibility: it has exposed the world to the grave danger of nuclear holocaust. the president of the council, mr president, has just said that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left to the mercy of the council. what a sad prospect for our century! in fact, in a country that wants to rise as a moral and strategic leader, what seems to prevail are the forces that, in the name of profit and military and nuclear supremacy, are not afraid to drive itself to destruction. in fact, we may not be surprised. these are the same forces which continue to perpetrate the death penalty, to fail to pay their dues to the united nations, thus contributing to the loss of legitimacy and the proper functioning of an organization based on the right of peoples not to be subjected to war. this action by the united states senate is pure folly. as mr patten said, it may not even have been dictated by strategic calculations but by internal struggles, which makes the matter even more serious and miserable. furthermore, as has been noted, it is primarily encouraging other countries, which already represent nuclear powers, not to ratify the treaty and is encouraging other countries to stockpile nuclear weapons. russia, as we have seen, has not been left in the lurch. the country tested an intercontinental ballistic missile steel rs18 before yesterday. another worrying factor is what happened with the japanese minister. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods between the european community and the republic of korea. it is a fact that all this is now no longer certain. this parliament has repeatedly spoken in favour of the elimination of nuclear weapons. we must ensure that those states which have not yet ratified the treaty do so as soon as possible. these include china, russia, india, and israel, which still holds mordecai vanur, a conscientious objector, in one of its prisons. we must also put an end to nuclear sharing, as suggested by articles 1 and 2 of the non-proliferation treaty: 'every nuclear-weapon state undertakes not to transfer nuclear weapons, directly or indirectly, to any other state'. on the other hand, we have seen that large quantities of nuclear weapons have been stored in nato bases, against the will of the people who have chosen to live in areas free of nuclear weapons. i want to continue to believe that it is possible to make this world more rational and that one day it will stop producing weapons capable of destroying it. i am convinced that the peace movements against nuclear - which did so much in the 1970s and 1980s - can resume their activities by working with us and with parliament to really enable us to live in a world without nuclear energy.
- (it) mr president, the russians are pursuing in the caucasus the policy which they had violently reproached others with in kosovo. recently, prime minister putin gained confidence in the 2000 budget only because he allocated an additional billion dollars to the army in chechnya. this means that the communist veterans voted in favour of the 2000 budget in the perspective of new weapons for the russian army in chechnya. with less than two months to go before the election, putin will not trouble the russian parliament - which is against him - by proposing political rather than military solutions. putin also accepts military aid but says it must be provided by the russians without international controls. that's a ridiculous request when you consider the number of thieves and enemies running around. putin is pushing for war for electoral reasons and not because he is afraid of islam or for some other even more ridiculous reasons. it needs, however, documents expressing a rational willingness to cooperate with the west, such as the helsinki document of 22 october. the debate last week, as we know, was rather heated, but the document that resulted, full of common ground exalting cooperation, certainly does not express the meaning of that debate and serves russian interests. i also urge the ministers not to use the term 'terrorists' too often when describing the chechen guerrillas. we had to change our minds when the terrorists finally came to fight for national interests. i think that the real politics with moscow will only be able to resume in january, after the elections, or even in august.
- the debate was dominated by concerns about the north caucasus. but as mr paasilinna has pointed out, there are also grounds for concern about the situation in the south caucasus. a member of parliament reported the alarming news of today's shooting at the armenian parliament and the reported murder of the prime minister. we are awaiting confirmation of this tragic news but it appears that this information is likely to be accurate. i recently met with the armenian foreign minister to discuss his concerns about the stability of the south caucasus and some of his concerns about chechnya and the north caucasus. i should like to take this opportunity to say that the commission wishes to renew its support for the efforts of the armenian government to find a rapid and peaceful solution to the situation in the caucasus. what happened today is deeply troubling. this debate has focused on chechnya, which was the subject of some very direct talks in helsinki, and i understood some members to say that the european union should have done more than it has already done. i think that the absolute lack of clarity about what we should have done is perhaps an inevitable consequence of a debate like this. i would like to repeat some of the points made earlier by the presidency. as one honourable member has pointed out, the communiqué mentioned that we had an exchange of views on the situation in the north caucasus. the communiqué said nothing more for a very good reason: we could not say in the communiqué that we had agreed on anything with regard to the north caucasus. what the european union has made very clear is that first, whatever the understandable concerns about chechen terrorism, there are strong arguments for a proportionate response to this problem; secondly, we have made a firm commitment to de-escalation and political dialogue. if you seem to be undermining and destroying the authority of the moderate chechen leaders, then the problem is with whom to talk. who do you want to start a political dialogue with ? this is a point we have emphasized strongly to prime minister putin, both in the official discussions and at the lunch where chechnya completely dominated the debate. we have made a strong plea for the need assessment mission to ingushetia to have access as soon as possible. last week i spoke with the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs. i spoke to mrs. ogata from unhcr. i have read, as the honourable members have done, the reports of the international committee of the red cross on the humanitarian crisis which is worsening every day in the north caucasus. according to the icrc's statements last week, more than a third of grozny's population has already left the city. we have therefore urged the russians to accept the need for a forthcoming visit to aid organizations in the region so that we can be aware of the situation and know what the best contribution to make to the humanitarian problem is. i hope that the honourable member who suggested stopping all humanitarian aid will reconsider his proposal. in my country, i was the minister of development and i provided humanitarian aid, on a national basis, to war-torn countries. i never thought that stopping aid to the victims of war, to the victims of political decisions made by their leaders, was a good way of responding to a crisis situation. let me add a word about the financing of the military campaign which in my opinion (a view which does not seem to be shared by the russian prime minister) will have repercussions on the recovery of the russian economy observed in recent months. some meps suggested that financial aid to the russian federation be suspended for fear that it would be used to support the military campaign. i would just like to remind the honourable members, who are probably more familiar with some of the details of these matters than i am, that we do not provide direct financial assistance to the russian authorities. that's not how tacis works. we are not an international financial institution providing financial aid for the reconstruction - we hope - of the russian economy. it must be clear to the public that we do not support in any way russia's military campaigns in chechnya or anywhere else. but when you start talking about stopping aid programs to russia, you have to face some of the consequences. one issue that is particularly close to my heart is the success of the negotiations on the multilateral nuclear environment programme, which is an attempt to ensure that western donors can provide technical and financial assistance for the storage and disposal of nuclear waste, all those terrifying and rusty nuclear submarines and other nuclear waste, in north-western russia. the success of such a programme is really important to all of us. i hope that we can continue discussions on such programmes even as we strongly advise the russians on the tragedy in chechnya in the north caucasus. we have indicated to the russian officials, to the prime minister, that if we are making a strong statement on these issues, it is not because we are enemies but because we want a cooperative relationship with russia. we made a strong speech because it reflected the mood of european public opinion: the kind of opinions expressed today in this house, speech after speech. so this debate has underlined the arguments we have put forward to mr putin and others. i hope they will take them seriously in the days and weeks ahead. we must return to the negotiations, however difficult they may seem to the russian leadership. we must return to the negotiations, otherwise i fear we will see an accumulation of disasters. and under such circumstances, i don't think anyone's opinion polls will hold up for very long.
- thank you very much, mr patten. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0026/1999), on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation (culture 2000 programme) (13328/2/1998 - c5-0023/1999 - 1998/0169 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr graça moura).
- (it) mr president, we have succeeded in including explicit references to culture in the treaty; it's very important. we must not forget culture, the specific features and diversity of european culture, we must not forget to promote and disseminate it, now that we are in this delicate phase of the union, now that enlargement to the east is looming and all the economic and financial transformations linked to the advent of the single currency have begun. culture - which involves history, languages and traditions - must remain a fundamental and inalienable link for european citizens. we must therefore welcome the culture 2000 programme, but we must also repeat certain remarks which have already been made by most of my colleagues. firstly, european citizens, associations and small european businesses in the sector should be encouraged and stimulated to make the most of this programme and to avoid concentrating the already meagre resources on only a few major events, which would benefit a few privileged networks which, in the long run, as past experience has shown, end up with a monopoly of these investments. secondly, we should ensure that the financial envelope for this programme is increased. in conclusion, i believe that europe must not forget that by investing in culture we are not only preserving a great deal of heritage and our european identity, but also creating many jobs. i believe, mr president, that the citizens of europe are in great need of it at the moment.
commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to warmly congratulate your rapporteur on his excellent work and the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport on its support for the rapporteur. i would like to say how much the commission appreciates the fact that one of the great contemporary poets is the rapporteur for the culture 2000 programme. i would like to inform you, even if it is only an anecdote, that one of mr graça moura's books will be translated into swedish this year thanks to the ariane programme. this is to show you that european culture travels ! (applause) i would like to thank your rapporteur has presented a very constructive report, based on a thorough analysis of the needs of cultural cooperation. the report shows clearly, if need be, the commitment of parliament to this programme and to european cultures. the culture 2000 programme is the first framework programme for culture. it will make it possible to develop a common cultural area designed to encourage creation, cooperation and exchanges; to safeguard and promote the heritage and history of the european peoples and to stimulate the flowering of cultures. you have stressed in your speeches and in our small talks in the corridors of parliament what is positive and what could be improved in the day-to-day management of this programme. i have noted the problems with the allocation of funds, the implementation of the specific programmes and the treatment of languages. but i would like to thank you for the speed with which you worked. this is in the interest of our citizens, because you know that the conciliation procedure between parliament and the council must be launched quickly if, in 2000, citizens are to benefit from our culture 2000 programme. i know the expectations of parliament, and i must say very clearly that i share them. this is why most of the amendments tabled by parliament can be accepted by the commission. these are amendments nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 14. i shall not repeat what is contained in these amendments, you know better than i do. i would just like to say that amendment no 4 on comitology is accepted in principle by a simple reference in the text to the management procedure provided for in the council decision of 28 june 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission. let me also make a comment on amendment no 12: this amendment is accepted while maintaining a certain flexibility in order to be able to reconcile the positions of the council and parliament on this specific point during the conciliation phase. i propose to accept amendments nos 7, 11 and 13 in part. amendment no 7, which concerns actions integrated into transnational cultural cooperation agreements, has two parts: firstly, the part concerning the role of the committee, and more particularly the obligation on the part of those responsible for the funded projects to submit a report of the actions undertaken directly to the committee, since this control is the responsibility of the commission, which must also assume responsibility for the management of the programme; secondly, the part which aims at adding the word 'heritage specialists'. the commission cannot accept this very generic term which would greatly and unpredictably expand the list of potential beneficiaries of the programme in terms of practical consequences. this does not mean, of course, that we do not accept the preservation of heritage, quite the contrary; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. on the part of amendment no 7 accepted by the commission, i have only one comment concerning terminology. the term 'member or associated states' should be used, as it is a very modest correction. amendment no 11 on the information role of the contact points can be accepted provided that their regional actions, which can be exercised in addition to their national role, are based on the provisions in force in the individual member states and do not entail any increase in the overall financial contribution from the community. it is clear that the commission will discuss with the member states the breakdown of this aid between the national and the regional level. the commission accepts amendment no 13, which proposes indicative criteria for the distribution of the budget between the main cultural areas, while increasing the percentage for actions in the book and reading sector from 9% to 11%, the annual amount of which would be significantly reduced compared to the ariane programme. your rapporteur will certainly welcome this. i have heard all your demands on the budget. i am with you wholeheartedly, but there is realpolitik, and you know very well that the budgetary authority does not always share our views. i therefore feel obliged to maintain my initial position on amendment no 3 and cannot accept the proposal to increase the budget from 167 to 250 million euro. the three institutions have committed themselves to respecting budgetary planning and only the budgetary authorities, that is to say parliament and the council, can introduce an amendment. of course, if such an amendment were to be introduced, the commission would welcome it, but in the present state of affairs i am obliged to reject this amendment. mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i am glad that we can vote today on culture 2000. it will be a new starting point for our peoples who expect us to put people, culture, roots and the diversities that make europe so rich at the centre of our concerns, beyond economic activities. it is with this in mind and in the hope that we can move quickly in the direction our citizens want, that i ask you to vote on this report.
- thank you, mrs reding. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0038/1999) on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing the community action programme 'youth' (13175/1/1999 - c5-0022/1999 - 1998/0197 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs gröner).
- (it) mr president, the strengthening of the union must not be achieved solely through the euro. young people must feel part of a europe without frontiers, with a spirit that is more open and free. in short, they must acquire the adaptability and speed in cultural exchange, training and professional experience which are the most demanded elements in the society of the next millennium. the youth programme can help us to achieve these objectives. it can especially enable young people from less well-off and disadvantaged backgrounds to have transnational experiences which can be decisive for their positive integration into the world of work. as the rapporteur has stressed, the maximum dissemination of this programme is a priority and we must avoid that this kind of community action should remain the privilege of some because of a lack of information. i fully share the criticism of the council for refusing to grant the necessary budget increase to guarantee equal opportunities in access to the programme. it is also incredible that the protection of the rights of the participants, from the point of view of social security and medical assistance, cannot be guaranteed. in conclusion, i would like to stress this: in a society which is increasingly using telecommunications and the internet for communication, information and services, it is almost ridiculous that the council has rejected the amendments for the creation of a website entirely for young people.
- (it) mr president, commissioner, i was elected to the european parliament as leader of the italian pensioners' party. an hour ago, a member of my group said to me: "fatuzzo, did you hit your head somewhere, you, member of the party of pensioners talking about the youth program?" yes, it's true, two days ago i had a minor accident, but that's not why i'm talking about the youth program. i mention this because i want it to be known that in italy the party of pensioners and pensioners - and, in my opinion, all the elderly people in europe - approve of this programme for young people. they are in favour of young people getting to know each other, learning languages, moving from ireland to italy, from portugal to finland. this programme is of great importance because it brings europe closer to the young. i have tried to replace the word 'young' with 'old' in the programme in question, and the result is a very good project, which is also valid because it is true, as mrs taylor said, that these young people are the first generation to have a european identity and that, as mrs gröner said, the future of europe begins with young people. but do we ever think of those elderly people who built europe? well, i am going from approving the programme for young people to saying: let us build, let us build together also a programme for cultural exchanges between the elderly! maybe we won't spend a billion in seven years, given the age of the people involved, but seven billion in one year. it is not much, but it is certainly a positive element.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, i should like to say at the outset that, by letter of 6 july 1999, the council consulted parliament, in accordance with rule 157, on the proposal for a council decision on the community's participation in the european audiovisual observatory. at the sitting on 23 july the president of parliament proposed to the committee that i should chair a substantive examination, and at the meeting on 27 july the committee on culture and youth appointed me rapporteur. at its meetings on 22 september and 11 and 12 october the committee examined the proposal and the draft report and approved them unanimously. mr president, the european audiovisual observatory is a very important public-service body which is intended to collect and disseminate information on the audiovisual industry: cinema, television, video and so on. set up under the auspices of the 1989 eureka audiovisual programme, it operates under a partial agreement concluded within the council of europe and has as many as 34 european members and the commission of the european union as a whole among its members. as regards the network of partners, correspondents and other bodies, its mission should not be confused with the mission and duties of eurostat in this area - this is an important and fundamental element which the committee has already discussed at length. this is two different things: the community body is responsible for the harmonized and organic collection of general statistics from various member states, the public and the administrations are its main customers and therefore they are the ones who provide the work. the observatory has more specific, more targeted objectives, guided by the market and the statistical requirements of enterprises and professionals. in addition, its sphere of competence is wider: it covers the legal sector, specialised information, and its mandate, which therefore comprises 34 states - i emphasize this again - is broader than that of eurostat. we must not set these two institutions too much against each other, and we must not and cannot do so because they exchange regular contacts and have also established their modus operandi, they have reached an agreement on the way in which they will carry out their activities. on the other hand, the court of justice's judgment of 12 may 1998 on the legal bases required a more defined framework than in the past, precisely to avoid the confusion that existed previously. the new line concerns preparatory measures in the audiovisual sector. it makes no reference to the old article 130 (3) on industrial development and the decisions which led to the creation of an audiovisual eureka. a heading was provided for the establishment of a statistical information infrastructure. this structure should enable the community contribution to be paid to the budget of the european observatory in strasbourg for 1999, the current year. this payment will therefore be delayed, which has hampered and is still hampering the functioning of this institution. i believe - and the whole committee shares my view - that it is important and fundamental for the european commission and for the 34 member states which participate and continue to participate actively in the observatory that this institution functions. i also think we will have the opportunity to work with the excellent commissioner, mrs reding, on these matters, and i would like to welcome her and thank her for her availability. mr president, i have the honour of chairing the committee on culture and, of course, i am also responsible for expressing its position. as i said at the beginning, the proposal and the draft report were adopted unanimously in the final vote and as regards the three amendments in question, two were adopted unanimously and one was adopted by a majority. i would like to say, however, on a personal note that i was against the third amendment because the decision we are about to adopt, which the commission has already anticipated, was due to expire, in the original text, on the last day of the last month of the fifth year, whereas the commission has reduced this deadline to three years. i repeat that, on a personal level, i remain perplexed because i believe that a distinction is being made between eurostat and the observatory, which perhaps does not favour collaboration between these two institutions, collaboration which is not unheard of at the moment. mr perry, who signed the amendment, was rightly concerned that parliament would have to control the observatory's expenditure and budget during these years. he can rest assured that we have extended the deadline to five years, so that the observatory can plan its valuable functions in a more extensive and more organic way.
- (it) mr gargani, the italian radicals would have liked to amend, to participate, to have the opportunity to intervene in this report as in all the others. that is impossible for them because, as mrs bonino said this morning, we are not allowed to carry out this parliamentary activity which is a characteristic of the european parliamentary mandate. we have therefore not tabled, or rather have not been able to table, amendments and we will not be voting on this report. we regret this, because this is an important matter. in addition, our experience as an audiovisual observatory is significant in italy. it was we radicals who, perhaps the first, independently created an audiovisual listening centre responsible for the control of information, for example political, in the various programmes, the various television news, the media. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. this control would have been part of the observatory's tasks, in view of european integration which must increasingly become political integration, integration of societies and the way of making policy, integration of information at european level. i put this idea to you, mr president gargani, because i myself am unable to translate it into a parliamentary act, as we are not allowed to do so in the present state of affairs.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, the idea of including turkey among the beneficiary countries of the youth for europe and socrates programmes dates back to 1996. the commission's proposal dates from 14 may 1996 and is in line with the objective of extending the vast cultural market to this country as well. this proposal was put forward despite the obstacles which existed, namely the human rights situation in turkey and the cyprus problem. despite these difficulties and the recent increase in problems, this idea led parliament, at its sitting on 25 february, to extend this decision to turkey. the commission has also decided to do so in the last few days. ladies and gentlemen, i think this is a very important decision. why would you do that ? it is true that turkey has raised some problems in this respect and i admit, mr president, that the echo of these difficulties has reached the ears of the committee. it has indeed been difficult to get this idea accepted in the european context, in a europe so open to culture, as was repeated this afternoon by the many speakers who dealt with the four provisions, which are in some ways related. but i think that this decision defines europe as a group of states which are rather open to new countries, and with great dignity; the european union is a great example of this, and it offers great opportunities for freedom and cultural development. in my view, when parliament approves this kind of provision, it opens up a great opportunity for young turks who, renouncing the mistakes of their fathers, can thus see europe as a reality offering great freedom, as a union of states in which culture, its dissemination and solidarity between young people are important and fundamental elements. i ask you to approve this provision unanimously, as was the case in committee. i hope that, despite the delay in the 1999 programmes, it will be implemented in time for the year 2000, which is fast approaching.
- (it) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the italian delegation of the national alliance is clearly in favour of turkey being included among the beneficiary countries of the youth for europe and socrates programmes. we are not only paying a legitimate tribute to culture, but we are also making a calm political judgment which is the result, above all, of the awareness of having as a partner a state - turkey, precisely - which is still far from fully respecting human rights and the principles of freedom and democracy, the basic principles of the european union. that is precisely why we must stimulate and encourage the full participation of young people in this country in a valid policy of exchange, mobility and encounter with young europeans. the young have always been the first to grasp the demands of a people for novelty, change, growth and cultural change. the young people are a very effective instrument for transmitting sound, democratic values. the european parliament was therefore right to vote in favour of turkey's participation in the exchanges provided for in the two programmes at first reading - and i thank the rapporteur, mr gargani, for his support. moreover, to deny turkey this possibility would be to increase the isolation of this mediterranean country from a europe which must seek dialogue, especially with those who - young people, in this case - cannot be held responsible for the mistakes of a government which we still have reservations about. allowing turkey to participate in the youth for europe and socrates programmes does not mean giving legitimacy to a state which has not yet shown tangible proof of maturity in respecting the rights of minorities, but it does allow these young people to stimulate the slow and painful process.
- the full report of the debate will be able to give the exact content of the remarks made by mr madelin.
- (fr) madam president, the matter does not concern the minutes, but i would like to draw the attention of all members to a tragic event that took place yesterday in yerevan, armenia. i ask you to consider whether we could observe a minute's silence for the speaker of the armenian parliament and the prime minister who perished in this armed aggression. in addition, 60 people were injured in the attack on a democratically elected parliament. i would like you to observe a minute's silence for this act, which we as members of parliament cannot in any way approve. on the contrary, we must do everything possible to restore peace in parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i do not think that is quite correct. we vetoed it. we have not reached the majority required to agree to a reference to the annex in the rules of procedure. however, we have yet to decide whether or not to annex the interinstitutional agreement itself to our rules of procedure. there are many examples of interinstitutional agreements annexed to the regulation without specific reference to the annexed text in the regulation itself. the remaining part of the committee's report can be accepted - only a simple majority being required - to annex the interinstitutional agreement to the regulation. everything is in perfect order. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, you are absolutely right: to amend the rules of procedure requires an absolute majority of the members of the house. we have just decided not to amend the rules and therefore not to add this new article. however, the rest of the report is subject to rule 186 of the rules of procedure which authorizes us to decide, by a simple majority, to add a point to the annexes to the rules of procedure. it refers specifically to interinstitutional agreements and even classifies them. it is for the assembly to decide - as with any other interinstitutional agreement - by a simple majority whether it wishes to add it as an annex to the rules of procedure without amending them. the reference in the regulation was not really necessary. this was an additional option we decided not to use. we can still decide whether to incorporate this interinstitutional agreement into the rules of procedure. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly vote by a simple majority on the annex to the rules of procedure. the addition of an annex to the rules of procedure constitutes an amendment to the rules of procedure and therefore requires an absolute majority. we cannot amend the rules by an annex. it's obvious. i would remind you that we have just decided that the general regulation contained in the interinstitutional agreement is applicable within parliament, with the necessary measures to allow the office's investigations to proceed smoothly, in accordance with the parliament's decision annexed to the regulation. this decision did not obtain the necessary majority. it cannot therefore be legitimated on the basis of the regulation. i think we would be well advised to refer this matter back to committee and not to continue the debate on the rules of procedure. (applause) i would like to thank
- (nl) mr president, i do not dispute that the rules of procedure are the basic law of this house. i am also not disputing that an amendment to the rules of procedure should be adopted. however, it has become clear this week, as we have been discussing this amendment in detail, that authorized votes from all the groups have been raised to amend the rules now. it is absolutely astonishing that the back-room battles have led to the largest group in this parliament now being prepared to send a negative signal to the outside world. we issued a warning during the week against such a move. we have said: do not hide behind formal objections. no one has been able to prove that the formal objections would remain after the adoption of this amendment. but now it is said that there is no longer a majority in favour of the amendment in question. well, i'll tell you plainly: we're making the same mistake as in may. we had already sent a negative signal on that occasion by showing that there was still a majority in parliament which wanted to retain a privileged position, contrary to all the agreements that had been concluded. to me, these agreements are sacred. i hope we can pass this amendment. (applause) i would like to thank
commission - (es) mr president, the commission accepts amendments nos 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 14. the commission is prepared to accept some of amendments nos 7, 11 and 13 and therefore rejects amendment no 3.
- mr president, i spoke yesterday. i would remind you that i was elected from the town where the michelin company is based, since today we dare not mention it, whereas commissioner diamantopoulou had the courage to do so yesterday. i think that the michelin trade unionists who were here yesterday will appreciate the way in which they are being treated by a majority in this parliament.
- mr president, i should like to make a brief explanation of vote on the bourlanges report and in particular our vote on document a5-0030/1999. in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of that report, mr bourlanges explains the reasons behind parliament's decision to reject the council's proposals. paragraph 8 in particular was a clear political signal to the council. in my group, which is divided on the matter, a minority intended to vote against paragraph 8 and did so. however, i also inadvertently led the majority of the group to vote against paragraph 8 because of a wrong vote. i would like to make it clear to mr bourlanges and to the house that the majority of my group was prepared to vote in favour of the strategy referred to in paragraph 8. i would like this to be taken into consideration and duly recorded.
- i have received three motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 42 (5) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. common positions of the council: see minutes. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m. (the sitting was closed at 5.45 p.m.)
in writing. - (it) the commission waited until the last minute to ask for negotiations to be opened. this is very regrettable, especially in view of the overall development of the whole matter, which, already in previous years, had seen a conflict arise in the institutional framework of the consultation, in relation to the role of parliament in an agreement with important budgetary implications. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on fisheries, which are not in line with the commission's proposals. no one wants to question the effectiveness of cooperation instruments with morocco through negotiations which, as soon as possible, promote the interests of both community and moroccan operators, and thus underline the feeling of solidarity which, moreover, even in sectors other than purely economic ones, has been manifested above all between the countries of southern europe, in the mediterranean region. the european fleet is very careful to respect the specific environmental compatibility standards in fishing - biological rest period, fishing framework, prohibition of fishing with trawlers, etc. however, it requires compensatory socioeconomic measures following an agreement further restricting its activities, including those of the processing industry. let us be clear: compensation cannot be at the expense of the agricultural sector, which has already suffered many budget cuts. the new fifg regulation gives us reassurance in this respect, because it covers not only the effects of international agreements but also the unforeseen events in the fisheries sector. finally, a word on the role of parliament: members of parliament will have to act as observers in all negotiating procedures and will have to look after the interests of the european fishing fleet.
mr president, the french embargo on british meat raises, in my view, two types of problem, both of considerable importance and significance for the future of europe. on the one hand, we must make the very existence of the european union a reality and thus ensure that decisions taken by the competent bodies on matters of community importance are applied in all the member states, especially in cases such as the one we are discussing today, which may invalidate one of the fundamental conditions of the union, namely the free movement of goods. on the other hand, we must protect consumers, and this is an absolute priority whose scope is so wide that it also justifies national choices which are not in accordance with community decisions, provided that these choices can be explained from a scientific and health point of view. the evaluation of these two types of problems cannot be limited to specific positions taken in parliament in support of or against the french decision. in fact, it is for other institutional bodies to assess the validity of the legal conditions and, above all, the health grounds put forward by the french authorities. in this connection, we look forward to commissioner byrne's press conference this afternoon. parliament would be wrong to hold a debate on this, a debate which would involve formulating a political judgment on the conduct of anyone; the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the draft budget. it seems appropriate and desirable, however, to take advantage of these opportunities to resume the work of weaving together the community institutions, which this parliament must undertake in accordance with the mandate of all the europeans it represents, by integrating the role hitherto played by national governments in community construction. in addition, this parliamentary body must act as a counterweight to the executive, and therefore to the commission, and must assume this role with greater vigour. this is a feature of all modern democracies. let us return to the case in question. i do not think that parliament should ask the commission to investigate the existence of recommendations issued by national agencies responsible for food safety which would run counter to community decisions. the commission and other relevant community institutions should be asked to draw up a report on the implications of these recommendations, so that parliament can make valid criticisms in preparation for the improvement of existing community legislation in this field.
- (it) mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i think that if the millions of unemployed in europe had heard this first report on the macroeconomic dialogue to promote growth and employment, they would have pulled their hair out. i understood that beyond a few statements of principle there is nothing incisive, there is no proposal, there is no rigorous analysis, as should be the analysis of the state of health of many european economies, especially continental ones. commissioner, when i hear the word 'macro-economic dialogue' - and i admit that the definition seems to me to be at least elusive - i think of the consultation in italy. what i fear is that this macroeconomic dialogue will attempt to export to the european level the method and mechanism of concertation followed in italy, a method which has led our country to the lowest growth rates and the highest unemployment and inflation rates. the consultation between the social partners and the government in italy has become a pact between representatives of the vested interests - trade unions, industry, politics - who aim to defend vested interests and profits against the possibility of making a place for the unemployed and all those who are not represented in the consultation in the new economy. in italy, consultation with the social partners has blocked all strategies and reform assumptions on the crucial points. i am thinking of the labour market, public spending and social security in particular; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat unemployment. both the council representative and the commission representative were specific on only one point: the request for wage moderation. in italy, wage moderation, which was agreed by the oligarchic trade unions, has blocked any plan for economic reform. i wonder why we have to tell european workers that the only thing that is certain is that they will be paid moderately. why should we not instead tell them that if, thanks to liberalisation and our ability to accept the challenges of the new economy openly, we manage to reverse the downward trend in economic growth, we will benefit from a certain amount of wealth and it will even be possible to raise wages, possibly by linking them to productivity and company results rather than to national or european collective agreements. in conclusion, i think that this dialogue should perhaps serve to explain to the european citizens why employment in the united states has increased by 45 per cent in 20 years, while in europe it has increased by only 4.12 per cent. i believe that the unemployed in europe, and perhaps even immigrants, need liberalisation, less state control, less taxation and less economic management. this is likely to lead to economic growth and new jobs.
- (it) mr president, a lot has already been said which i think can be summed up as follows: either the macroeconomic dialogue is a pure hypocrisy, to hide the absence of a real economic policy for the union, in which case it is totally useless, duplicates and is a waste of time, as has already been said by other colleagues; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but what does macroeconomic dialogue actually mean, what can it mean? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. macroeconomic dialogue and income policy, does this really mean wage policy, wage moderation policy? let 's make this clear ! a force like the epp-democrats cannot agree to this because it aims at the free functioning of the market, which leads to the free distribution of income, especially from the income of the workers. the incomes of workers must be linked to labour productivity and not to more or less obscure coordination strategies decided by others. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's macro-economic policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. well, when a liberal sees this actor in this group, he jumps up from his chair: never a central bank can be involved in a consensus of this kind, never! in fact, if the central bank is telling the truth, it's signing its death warrant, so to speak; if, in talking to these other actors, she is not telling the truth - which she should not do because her task is different - then she is telling stories and wasting her time. then there are the social partners. in fact, these four actors form a very dangerous mixture which, on the one hand, seeks to eliminate the real problem for europe, namely the absence of a genuine economic policy; the commission has also been trying to harden the system by means of more or less obscure negotiating games, in defiance of unemployment and the market. one more point: cologne based its employment pact hypothesis on three pillars. but too little is said about the third pillar, which is the liberalisation of markets.
- (it) mr president, i will confine myself to expressing my great perplexity not so much about the rapporteur's work as about what is happening in the maritime world. this sector is of great importance. i come from a country, italy, where this sector has always been of considerable importance because of the jobs it creates, and it is a sector which used to give workers what it no longer manages to give them today. the workers in this sector have experienced a real regression, they have gone back in time: today they earn less and work more, victims of a liberal capitalism which really makes them victims of the sector. even the postponement of the implementation of the agreements until 2002 leaves us puzzled. we believe that parliament must do more, quickly and properly, to put things right.
- mr president, i would like to invite the house to reflect on the democratization of china. it seems to me that everything we have seen in recent months proves the opposite: the increase in arrests of dissidents, the persecution of the so-called fa-lung-dung sect, etc. we can of course conceive of a strategic relationship with a non-democratic country, with a dictatorial country. there are many loyal friends of the communist regime here, starting with mr gahrton, who has been constantly urging us to renew and strengthen our ties with the people's republic of china. there is another country, mrs plooij-van gorsel, which has a population of one billion and is the largest democracy on earth, india, and that country is always forgotten and nothing strategic is done. even though we're a democracy, we prefer to talk to dictators. i regret this, all the more so as this report, and in particular the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, is particularly hypocritical. we are saying in this report that there are at least four people who are being held for scientific reasons, contrary to what mr brok, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy, has told us. we quote them in this report and we do not even ask for the release of these four people. i think it's incredibly hypocritical. so let's move on, and let's close our eyes to india. let's move on to china. and you'll see that democratization in china is going nowhere. the communists only know the language of force, and in this case we have no force.
commission. - mr president, i should first like to thank mrs quisthoudt-rowohl for her very good report. i think you've covered all the essentials. i would simply like to confirm that what is very important in this agreement is the aspect of mutual interest, unlike other agreements, such as the tacis project, which are unilateral assistance projects. as far as women are concerned, we are fully in line with the commission's communication of february 1999 on 'women and science' and we will ensure that the fifth framework programme encourages the presence of women. secondly, you spoke, quite rightly, of the question of private enterprises, and we also think, as you do, that the presence of enterprises in the collaboration project is an element highlighted for the whole framework programme and is particularly important in this type of agreement. there is of course also the question of the synthesis paper on the various points which have already been provided in terms of information. i believe you have already received a number of particular pieces of information, but i will shortly be sending you a summary document giving an overview. as regards the nuclear issue in particular, and my colleague mr lamy, as you know, mrs maes has alluded to it, mr lamy sent a letter to the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, mr westendorp, today, in which he takes stock of the situation and says very clearly, and i am replying to mrs maes at the same time, that official confirmation from russia is still needed to proceed with the initial draft of the decision of 12 december 1994. so it is the russians who still lack this agreement with regard to the reply that mr lamy has just given you. i would also like to say to other speakers that electronic and information and communication media are already widely used among researchers and that they are already using them as much as they can. this use obviously still needs to be developed. this will also contribute to a better exchange of information and common developments. as regards the more fundamental political question raised about chechnya, it is clear that i share the same questions and anxieties as you, but the question is this: so far the european union has neither suspended nor slowed down its diplomatic relations with russia, because we believe that we must always have channels of dialogue with russia in order to get our messages across, including those relating to our concern about what is happening in chechnya. i would also remind you that the union, through the finnish presidency, expressed its deep concern in this regard to the russian government and its prime minister, mr putin, at the eu-russia summit on 22 october 1999. i therefore share parliament's concern about the seriousness of the situation in chechnya, but i do not think that this agreement is the best way of expressing our concerns and questions about what is happening. like all of you, i'm touched by the events. i think that this agreement is of great importance for dialogue and the promotion of cooperation in the field of technological research and development. this agreement is therefore positive. the question is asked, but we believe that this will be a positive step in our relations with researchers in russia, and thus in favour of building the best possible area of freedom and exchange.
- thank you, commissioner busquin. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0047/1999) by mr linkohr, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the argentine republic (com (1999) 292 - c5-0040/1999 - 1999/0125 (cns)).
commission. - i should like to thank mr linkohr for his relevant report on this cooperation agreement with argentina. in fact, it is the first agreement concluded with a latin american country and it is perfectly in line with the guidelines for eu cooperation with emerging economies, set out in the commission's 1996 communication on this subject and embodied in the fifth framework programme. as you have pointed out, argentine researchers have so far only benefited from cooperation actions on issues such as nutrition, health or the environment. the agreement will enable both parties to exploit the full potential of the countries' advanced research capacities for sustainable development, as has been emphasised, but also, as you can see, in the field of the specific programme 'energy and the environment', in the field of renewable energies, taking into account the kyoto commitments. we will also ensure that this forms a first basis for negotiations with other latin american countries. i can inform you that the preparatory work for the agreement with brazil is already well advanced. but, as you have pointed out, it may be necessary to extend the problem to the whole of the mercosur area. secondly, as i said in the general presentation, parliament will of course be kept fully informed of developments under this agreement. finally, a general remark to conclude. an important aspect of the union's cooperation with the countries of this region is, as you have stressed, the interregional dimension. in the actions undertaken so far, the emphasis was already on developing collaborative projects with other mercosur countries, an association in which argentina plays an important role and is therefore a kind of bridgehead for us in relation to other latin american countries. this aspect will therefore continue to receive special attention in the union's relations with the countries of this region. the commission and parliament will pay particular attention to this.
- thank you, commissioner busquin. - thank you very much. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0040/1999), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the availability of information on fuel consumption and co2 emissions to consumers when new passenger cars are sold (5617/2/1999 - c5-0037/1999 - 1998/0272 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr sterckx).
commission. - (sv) mr president, i should first like to thank the committee on the environment, and of course mr sterckx, for the work he has done on this recommendation for second reading, and in particular for having shown that it is possible to work quickly and efficiently. if mr goodwill had not left the chamber, i would have told him that the aim is to ensure that environmentally friendly cars can also be seen by the opposite sex. we hope that one day this will be the case and that we will have good reason to say that the cars in question are truly environmentally friendly. we support the rapporteur's recommendation that this common position be accepted without further amendments. it is clear from the recommendation for second reading and from the speech by mr sterckx that this common position takes account of many of the views expressed by the european parliament. we believe that consumers should be systematically informed, without undue delay, about the fuel consumption of new passenger cars and the carbon dioxide emissions they emit. we will thus help consumers to make the right choice. it is true that this will not change the world, but it may represent a small step forward, as part of a larger strategy. it is certain, as mrs flemming has said, that several other measures will be needed to make further progress. we have followed the discussions in the committee on the environment very closely. although some proposals were made on how this common position could be improved, it was stated that the main thing was rapid implementation. we are fully aware that the directive, in its current form, was only a first step towards better consumer information. i will give two examples: firstly, we intend to develop this directive further as soon as possible, applying article 9 to the question of the verification procedure and article 10 to the question of the establishment of the committee. commission officials are currently working on the application of these articles. it is more than likely that we will be returning to some of the comments made by the committee on the environment in the course of this work. the commission also plans to create a web page containing information on fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions from cars sold in the european union. this shows that we want consumers to be informed as soon as possible. i would like to say to mr lange - and this is not the first time we have discussed this - that i take this matter very seriously. we will have to return to the question of how the european parliament should be involved and kept informed of the work on voluntary agreements. i would remind you that parliament, the council and the meeting of european car manufacturers have agreed on the urgent need to conclude agreements with manufacturers who are not members of such associations at european level. but, as i have said, i take the common position adopted by the european parliament seriously. i would also like to say that i do not intend to initiate any new projects in the field of environmental protection until the question of the role of the european parliament has been resolved. in conclusion, i would like to say that the commission is pleased that the common position has been so well received by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment. we hope that the plenary will follow the recommendations of the rapporteur.
- thank you, commissioner. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the oral question on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council entitled 'strategy for the european internal market' (b5-0032/1999)
- (it) mr president, i too thank the commission. the strategy paper which has been submitted to us certainly represents an important step towards the single market and extends and consolidates the idea of the single market which is one of the central pillars of european construction. it suggests a series of scenarios in which the single market is also likely to bring new freedoms and opportunities for the ordinary citizen. i do not wish to dwell on certain legal matters which have already been well dealt with by mr lehne and mrs palacio; it seems to me more interesting to dwell on some political subjects which are not yet fully covered by the document but which will certainly be discussed in this parliament, because they strengthen the idea of europe. firstly, how can the single market be made effective where states are trying to introduce protectionist measures - we have seen several cases of this recently - and how will the commission make the best use of the infringement procedure by making it faster and by encouraging citizens and their associations to denounce the violations of community law which take place every day in the various member states? a second topic is the use of new technologies. the european union must provide a direct legal framework to enable free movement and the free provision of services and to avoid conflicts and obstacles to free movement caused by too disparate legislation between the different countries of the community. the directive on electronic signatures will no doubt be followed by those on electronic commerce and copyright in the information society, on consumer protection in the distance sale of financial and other products. all the european institutions will have to ensure that the coherence of the common legal institutions is guaranteed. in these areas, a fair balance between public regulation and self-regulation by the parties concerned will allow the market to function without infringing the rights of citizens and consumers. on the other hand, these new technologies require consumer confidence to be fully exploited. giving out your credit card number should not and cannot be a risk. we have a third subject: how does the commission intend to proceed with the gradual extension of the single market to the applicant countries? this must be done without calling into question the community acquis and ensuring the balance, however fragile, that currently exists. the national markets of the applicant countries will have to be integrated into the community market without any clashes, and it will therefore be necessary to provide for transitional measures where some countries are not yet ready; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. one last point: what does this document say about international economic relations, which will be of vital and brief importance in the millennium round? we are living in an unprecedented historical phase which requires a great capacity to adapt to change, to prevent the european model from losing out on the international scene. we live in an age of interdependence: different aspects of economic and social life are intertwined at a global level and everyone's interests are intertwined. interdependence requires that the transition from diversity to uniformity be accommodated wherever possible and managed in such a way as to maintain a balance between identity, diversity and the conviviality of the models. the inevitable confrontation with diversity implies that one must be able to adapt one's own identity to the level necessary to be able to compete on equal terms with others. finally, in the sectors concerned by international multilateral trade, we are seeing how the mutual influence between organizations at the global level is becoming increasingly greater every day. we know that the european model is already being used as the basis for the transatlantic dialogue. we must prevent our efforts from implying that others impose models on us that are not our own.
- the minutes of yesterday's session have been distributed. are there any observations ?
- mr. haarder, as you know, we decide on big strategies in just a few minutes, but we need more time to solve small problems. you raised the matter in the previous parliament. we'll try to fix it somehow.
- you know, mrs flemming, that more than the ringing of the bell, it is the question of whether or not there will be votes in this house that makes members jump. in that case, there are no plans, which is why several of our colleagues have remained working in their offices.
- your specifics will be noted in the minutes. (the minutes were approved)
- (it) mr president, i refer to rule 43, annex 2, concerning the time limits for the transmission of questions. i have already raised the matter and the president has graciously sent me a reply which i do not think is in accordance with the rules of procedure because if the rules of procedure say a week, it cannot be seven working days: seven days may correspond to seven calendar or working days but certainly not to a week. the same applies to a month or a year which cannot, for example, be equal to 365 working days. moreover, the time limit set for the thursday of the week preceding that in which the question is debated, since the questions are examined on tuesday, is actually eight working days, which is beyond interpretation. in my case, the matter would have been considered on wednesday, which would have been nine working days. in any event, it is not the bureau - a meeting of 22 and 23 november 1979 is cited here - or the bureau acting on a proposal from the president, in agreement with the chairmen of the political groups, in a decision of 19 november 1992, which can interpret the rules of procedure. only one body within this parliament can decide on the interpretation of the rules of procedure, namely the committee on constitutional affairs. i therefore ask, in accordance with the rules of procedure, that the matter be referred back to the competent body.
- i'm sure the president will give you a favorable response to your proposal. then you will get an answer that will be satisfactory to you and to all of us. documents received: see minutes.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - a5-0045/1999 by mr menrad, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision establishing the employment committee (com (99) 0440 - c5-0173/1999 - 1999/0192 (cns)) and on the commission proposal for guidelines for the employment policies of the member states for the year 2000 (com (99) 0441 - c5-0147/1999 - 1999/0816 (cns)); - a5-0046/1999 by mr menrad, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the draft joint report on employment 1999 presented by the commission (sec{1999) 1386 - c5-0215/1999 - 1999/2139 (cos)).
- (it) mr president, we are called upon to examine the proposal to set up an employment committee. in reality, the institutions of committees are often solutions adopted precisely when we refuse to face a problem or when we do not have the capacity, the power, the legal basis to face it. i think that is the main problem we are facing, the problem of who makes the decisions on employment policy. we have already pointed out that the european parliament was almost entirely excluded from cologne; i believe that parliament should be fully involved since employment policies at european level are policies of suggestion, indication and encouragement in favour of coordination between member states. there is therefore no real effective decision-making power, which, taken together, would be, i believe, a positive point in the name of the principle of subsidiarity, but rather a rather limited power. on the other hand, an apolitical committee is in danger of playing the role of a compensation chamber which tries to remove all the tragic aspects of the debate and to find political alternatives in the name of a consensus, which is precisely the neutral and apolitical consensus which, in my view, is impossible to achieve in the field of employment. the system of committees, consultation and social dialogue must not replace parliamentary prerogatives either at european level or, of course, at national level, because social dialogue, when it exists - which in reality consists of a dialogue between the large trade unions of workers, often in the most traditional sectors of the economy, and the large enterprises - often amounts to dialogues, cooperation, consultation which lead to the exclusion of those who are, today, on the margins of european economic systems, namely the unemployed, immigrants, those who are precisely condemned to remain outside the insider system, those who are outside the guaranteed work system. there is a big gap in the employment policy guidelines and that big gap is immigration. in fact, we should, as the european union and as the member states, encourage the arrival of hundreds of thousands of people who today, from countries outside the european union, are capable of performing the jobs with the highest rate of innovation, since the training of the workforce, the current workforce in the european union, is not enough. this is a bold and active policy on employment and immigration which can help employment in the european union.
- before we continue our discussions, i'd like to make a statement. as many of you will recall, at our sitting on thursday 28 october in strasbourg our work was interrupted by an incident concerning the amendment of a motion for a resolution without the agreement of some of its signatories. the resolution concerned the restructuring of undertakings and the inclusion or exclusion of michelin. it is clear from the information which i have received from the general secretariat that the causes of this incident are due, on the one hand, to a lack of communication between the parliamentary groups and, on the other hand, to a lack of coordination between the groups and the departments of the general secretariat. like you, i hope that this kind of incident will not happen again, which is probably due to the significant changes that have taken place in this parliament both at the level of its members and at that of the secretariat of the political groups and the general secretariat. it goes without saying that colleagues who wish to examine the text of this information, which was sent to me at my request by the secretary-general, can do so from the secretariat.
- (it) mr president, the answer to the inquiry which you instigated on the document which did not coincide with what had been agreed seems to me somewhat bureaucratic in that the question which had been raised concerned a document which had been replaced without the knowledge of certain signatories. that was the question raised and the answer given has nothing to do with it.
- let us not now resume the debate of the other day: the answer is as i have summarized it to you; it recalls the terms of the inquiry which i proposed and which was accepted by all, an inquiry which was carried out by the general secretariat and which led to this conclusion.
- i do not share your opinion, mrs flautre, and i ask you to read the text of the letter which has been forwarded to me by the general secretariat. this letter is at your disposal and that of all the other members. after you have considered it, you will no doubt change your mind about your last statement.
- (it) mr president, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done on a complex subject and in difficult circumstances. this is a complex subject, as is shown by the two circumstances: an almost general common agreement on the urgency and importance of adopting effective policies to combat unemployment, within a framework in which the necessary support for a positive economic process preserves social cohesion and the european social model. and the conditions are indeed difficult, since our agreement and convergence on these objectives are often in danger of collapsing when it comes to identifying therapies, strategies of action. i shall therefore concentrate on those points which i believe can be strengthened in the future and which will be one of the elements on which our debate should focus. firstly, i believe that our intervention, the joint intervention of the community institutions in the member states, in the field of policies to increase employment is important but insufficient. the coordination between labour, employment and labour market management policies and those policies which influence structural factors and the macroeconomic framework seems to me to be insufficient, as does the level of structuring and investment for effective community institutions capable of managing these processes for which respect for the competences and prerogatives of the national states alone is not enough. i can only see a limitation in this respect for members who, on the contrary, always and above all show this sensitivity. we regard unemployment as a problem to be combated and not, of course, as an opportunity to be exploited also in the context of competition between country systems and production systems for instrumental competition based on social dumping. i have never fully understood what is meant by employment with a social content, but i certainly know that a perspective of job enhancement based on the reduction of basic protections and basic objectives of social cohesion is impossible. finally, as regards active labour market policies, training and retraining, all important guidelines, i believe that the level of convergence is insufficient as regards credible indicators of the effectiveness of these policies in the context of the national employment plans, the success and results of which the community institutions have undertaken to verify. when we abandon compensation policies and passive policies in favour of active ones, we cannot simply use words casually: it is the facts that count in terms of qualifications, training and retraining. when the suffering of millions is considered, statistics are often misleading. we cannot tolerate them being used as drunkards sometimes use street lights: to support themselves and not fall when they stumble instead of lighting the road they want to travel.
- (it) mr president, i too thank the rapporteur for the remarkable work he has done and i would like to stress that the undeniable fall in the unemployment rate from 10.1 to 9.4 is to be regarded as a positive development, as is the european union's employment policy with its four basic pillars, to which i would nevertheless add language training and the immigration problem. we also believe that it is necessary to evaluate in greater depth the establishment of bodies at community level which could effectively monitor and regulate these processes. we also believe that europe can and must do more, because the europe of the euro will only survive if we build a social europe, a europe of solidarity, a safe europe with more incisive macroeconomic policies, accompanied by structural reforms that stabilise and clean up the public finances of the states. it is true that employment policies are national policies, but it is also true that they must now be brought back to the european level because it is only through consultation and social dialogue that we will succeed in strengthening the power of the european parliament in the field of employment policy, a policy which will allow europe to finally and resolutely have a political face and not just an economic one.
- (it) mr president, on behalf of the uen group i would like to congratulate mr menrad on his report. i would also like to stress that, even if the work done does not define a community law, it is impossible to ignore how important it is that parliament should express itself on an issue considered to be a priority for the union, namely the employment issue. i also believe that mr menrad's report, with the contributions he has been so pleased to accept, is in fact the best report within the limits of this subject, the powers of parliament and the constructive modalities of europe. the problem of employment, however, is not only the estimated work that parliament can or will do, but, in a much wider context, it sometimes arises from the overlapping of powers, sometimes from the vanishing of content. the indications and assessments of parliament on this subject are certainly valuable, but in the face of such a commitment, certain aspects seem contradictory to me. yesterday we heard the council and the commission speak about the imminent launch of the macroeconomic dialogue, of which no opinion or indication will be made public - as we have been told. but it's not so much about that as it is about the spirit that emerged from it, rather random, hopeful but unwilling to coordinate. the objective announced at the launch of the single currency seems to be to build confidence in economic policies through the stability of monetary, price and fiscal policies and through wage moderation and flexibility. however, today national macroeconomic dialogues have been brought down to the regional level; the consultation process has invested the regions and the territory and their capacity for programming in the use of structural instruments and the design of local development models. however, it does not seem to me that the committee of the regions is involved in the european 'macrodialogue' or that there are any indicators to assess the actions taken by the states in creating employment policies at local level, which are often left solely to the activism and will of the social partners. in addition, the same social partners have a fundamental role to play in employment and social integration strategies and there is still no clear definition of the role they should play, particularly as ngos. but that is not all: it cannot be just about wage moderation and flexibility, because that would alter the nature and spirit of national dialogues, the maintenance of social protection and all the instruments of programming negotiated in the territory, which are sensitive not only to small and mediumsized enterprises but also to sectors which correspond more closely to the tradition and characteristics of the territory. taxation and security are not secondary; on the contrary, they are more important than moderation and flexibility. it is desirable that a more coordinated, more transparent but also more determined european model be established, where the states, in their diversity, are not merely divided into strong and weak states.
- (it) mr president, the commission proposal on the guidelines for employment policies in the year 2000 is not in substance innovative in relation to the documents which precede it. it does, however, contain some very important points, particularly with regard to information systems and policies to facilitate the transition of young people to work. it should also be stressed, as in amendments nos 2 and 3 to guidelines 1 and 2, that longterm unemployment cannot be effectively tackled by means of state subsidies. i would just like to highlight three obstacles which we still have to tackle in employment policies and which the commission proposal does not adequately address. first of all, attention is too marginal to small and mediumsized enterprises, which are not only faced with the problems of excessive social security charges, which are also typical of large industries. on the other hand, the document before us does not mention the role that an active credit policy could play in supporting enterprises - the european credit system is still a long way from the american system in this respect - and i believe that the efforts made by the european union and the member states to give it a new direction have been quite insufficient so far. finally, these documents omit one essential point: the definition of the role of the regions and local bodies in an active employment policy. if we continue to think in terms of macroeconomic programming and if we do not organise local consultation and between administrators, trade unions and entrepreneurs to define concrete development projects based on real resources, we will never tackle the employment problem at its root. in this respect, amendment no 15 to guideline no 12 is important but still insufficient.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of employment is a european issue which is not the sole responsibility of the national states. recognition of this does not mean that the member states are being deprived of their powers, but that a broader and more coherent approach to employment can be used to tackle one of the greatest problems of our time more effectively. a shared institutional balance between the union's objectives and guidelines and the free choice of the member states is therefore necessary. in this sense, the committee represents a first step forward, but it is not enough. as far as the guidelines are concerned, i would like to focus specifically on the part concerning the transition from school to work. this cannot be achieved by the merely laudable proposals contained in guidelines 7 and 8. it is important to recognise the fundamental role that schools can play in the fight against unemployment, but there is no reference to the need for schools to work within the framework of a comprehensive spatial planning characterised by the involvement of the social partners, local bodies and the business community. it is therefore necessary for the commission to refer to this aspect and to undertake to promote support programmes to encourage this prospect.
- (it) mr president, in its document on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states in the year 2000, the commission is basing itself on a fundamental consideration: the progress made in developing the employment process, after its launch at the extraordinary summit, is considerable; the commission gives figures - one million eight hundred thousand jobs created in europe - and thus confirms the structure based on four pillars and the main points of the guidelines. we can agree that the structure should not be fundamentally changed, but both the commission document and the european parliament report, despite the praiseworthy work of mr menrad, could and above all should have been more daring. in particular, coordination between macroeconomic policies and the employment guidelines must move from simple dialogue to convergence between member states without weakening the powers and responsibilities of the states, which no one questions. but it is necessary that the guidelines and recommendations at european level be translated into concrete, quantifiable objectives towards which the member states must strive with their own national plans: concrete objectives which define measurable medium-term objectives, convergent in terms of employment rates and reducing the gap between men and women on the labour market, also through investments in infrastructure and services, and promoting the employment of young people. quantitative and qualitative indicators should be defined. it is not a question of providing a remedy at european level, as some might fear, but of presenting a range of instruments which actually make it possible to create jobs and social cohesion: we must therefore make progress in terms of quality and show more courage. the single currency was created because binding criteria were defined. if we do not do this in the field of employment, we will always have too little.
- (it) mr president, i have to speak about the problems of labour and social affairs and employment. we are pleased to have with us commissioner anna diamantopoulou. i would like to have more time to make my proposals to him and would therefore like to invite him to dinner, if possible and if he accepts my invitation; i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope she will accept my invitation and take the few seconds i have left to say that i found the list of proposals from the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities rather curious. (part of the speech without microphone) i would like to emphasize that the elderly and the retired are happy to give their places to the young. there are 630 members in this house and i am sure that many of us would be happy to give up our seats to young members. of course, we will not increase the number of jobs but the number of young unemployed who will thus have the satisfaction they deserve. i think that the member states should ensure that the elderly, who have contributed enough to their pension, can give way to the young.
- (it) mr president, i think mr menrad's report is quite correct in its assertion that modernisation of work plays a fundamental role in increasing productivity, competitiveness and, therefore, employment. however, there are some limitations to the conclusions. the member states are engaged in competition in the field of employment policy and standards relating to the european social model which does not favour the achievement of the objectives which they declare they want to achieve and the conditions which are theoretically guaranteed. when we say that reducing the tax burden on labour costs must not compromise the soundness of public finances or the financial balance of security systems, we are saying that only strong economic growth can solve this problem. in reality, the tendency is to raise the level of competitiveness by imposing certain social costs on family budgets. if we do this, social disparities will only increase and, in some cases, marginalisation and new sources of poverty. in any case, europe is particularly likely to face competition from the major economies, which have invested and are investing more in the dissemination of technology and in research and in the vocational training of young people, in other words in the future of technologically advanced industries. i therefore believe that mr menrad is right when he stresses in his general conclusions that the commission must harmonize the documents on broad economic policy guidelines and on employment guidelines. in this sense, i believe that the committee can represent a very important step forward. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) madam president, i would like to inform the members that rule 51 of our rules of procedure, which allows members to sign written declarations which, if signed by a majority of members, would be sent directly to the institutions mentioned in those declarations, has been de facto abolished by bureaucratic means. i have the impression that this right has been taken away from us de facto. in strasbourg i personally tried to sign mr perry's proposal to move parliament's work to brussels and thus to give this parliament only one seat. it took me 20 minutes: no one knew where the office was, which is on the second floor of the tower, very far from the house, even further away than it was - and it was already - during the last parliament. but look where the offices are for the only signatures that are readily available to us, the signatures for our attendance and the sums associated with it. if they were hidden in some office in the parliamentary labyrinth, we would probably revolt. i am referring to our dignity as members of parliament, madam president, because we must give signatures for politics, for political declarations, the same dignity and the same place as those reserved for signatures for attendance and for money. this brings me to the second point. only a parliament which seeks to confine political declarations and signatures to the basement and which is in fact controlled by bureaucratic logic can allow non-registered members, who enjoy fewer rights than other members, to be discriminated against as they have been for months. we do not want to be associated with this discrimination and therefore we intend, once again, not to take part in the vote until this problem is... (the president cut off the speaker)
- (it) madam president, i think it is my duty to support mr cappato's requests for the constitution of a parliamentary group. if the problem is not resolved, i think that other members will not take part in the vote either. i hope that won't be necessary. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) madam president, in principle i would agree because russia's attitude towards the chechen people is unworthy but i do not see where the consistency is in this parliament which, just a few minutes ago, approved an agreement with china when that country has been oppressing the tibetan people since 1959. (applause) at this point, and for the sake of consistency, either we both vote them or we should both postpone them. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. - (it) unemployment is the main problem in europe and in italy it is dramatic when it exceeds 12%. the fight against unemployment must be pursued by effective, incisive and rapidly implemented measures. it is important that the european parliament should also seek to have a democratic space within this framework to allow it to intervene in the choices of the european union. meps cannot simply sit by and watch, as has happened in the past, decisions taken by others which do not meet the real needs of the people. we do not support the document on guidelines for employment policies insofar as it is inspired by the ideas and principles of economic liberalism; the european parliament nevertheless proposes some guidelines with a view to achieving equal opportunities for men and women, seeking constant dialogue between the social partners and ensuring that companies consult and inform workers. in italy, the communists are fighting for the swift adoption of the law on trade union representation, an act of democracy in the workplace. we note the european parliament's wish to make the tax aid granted to companies subject to certain conditions so that it really contributes to job creation and not to restructuring and relocation accompanied by redundancies, so that the michelin scandal does not happen again. given the limited and insufficient attention paid to the labour market, we have tabled amendments which are quite reasonable and responsible. but these were not approved. the italian communists therefore voted against the menrad reports.
- (it) madam president, i would like to add that a united nations plane carrying 21 volunteers working on the wfp project for the reconstruction of kosovo and three crew members crashed on friday. we must also remember these victims, thank these people for the incredible and useful work they have done and send our condolences to their families. we also need to find out what caused the disaster. i would therefore ask you, madam president, if you consider it appropriate, to observe a minute's silence in the name of these heroes of our time.
- (it) mr president, in my speech i would like to emphasize the fundamental role of the european parliament in this matter, in particular the role of the committee on women's rights and equal opportunities, because it is the committee which allows us today to debate the final adoption of this programme. other speakers have already mentioned that the european parliament supported, a few years ago, pilot projects to support non-governmental organisations and local authorities which have long been involved in actions to combat violence against women and children. this phenomenon - violence against women and children - is unfortunately not only widespread but is constantly expanding and manifesting itself in new, more sophisticated and therefore more difficult forms. the programme under consideration today is the result of this earlier work. there was a very thorough discussion with the commission, particularly as regards the change in the legal basis and therefore the reorganisation which we have seen in the proposal in relation to the original proposal. i do not want to go back on this subject, but i would like to express some satisfaction, despite the change in the legal basis, because certain elements - which are very important to us - have been welcomed by the commission and the council. i am referring to the fact that the common position deals with health, its physical, mental and social aspects, the quality of life, violence as a violation of human rights and, above all, the fact that this programme also covers victims of human trafficking and sexual exploitation. another particularly significant element, i believe, is the recognition of the role played by ngos and multidisciplinary networks and public bodies which are already doing valuable work, especially in the areas of prevention, support and protection of victims. for this programme to have real added value, a major information campaign will have to be implemented. this campaign must involve parliament and the commission, but above all the member states, which must take full responsibility for combating violence.
the commission. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken and assure you that on behalf of the commission i am taking note of your concerns and wishes. i believe that we are faced with a problem which can be analysed from two angles: on the one hand, that of fundamental rights and, on the other, that of the influence of policies concerning children on the areas of action of the union. as regards the first, fundamental rights, we are committed within the union, through article 6 of the treaty, to respect for fundamental rights and, specifically, for the freedoms and fundamental rights of man, as they result from the constitutional traditions common to our member states. i believe that the appropriate forum for the debate on the prospects of establishing a fundamental right for children should be the same as for the charter of fundamental rights. i would like to stress that i will raise the matter in parliament. as regards sectoral policies, i support the commission's suggestion of a communication on this subject, which by definition must be a horizontal communication. but i would also like to stress to this parliament that the commission is already working on developing concrete measures for children. in my area of action, police and judicial cooperation, i would like to tell members that the fight against child trafficking, the fight against abuse and crimes against children and the prevention of juvenile crime are all priorities for action by the commission, which were recognised by the tampere summit and which we will develop in the framework of the police and judicial cooperation programmes which i will present to you when i present the scoreboard requested by the heads of state and government. as regards the possibility of a horizontal commission communication, i believe that the organisational consequences of this, as you suggested, can be considered in the future: the creation of a unit within the commission and the definition of budgets for child protection to improve public control over the union's participation in child protection policies. finally, i would like to emphasise that the responsibility for the application of the convention lies primarily with the member states and that this is an area where the application of the principle of subsidiarity is strictly confined. but i also believe that it is possible to consider promoting, under the responsibility of the commission, a comparative study of the transposition of the convention on the rights of the child into the national legislation of several member states. i believe that such a study could help to identify the degree of practical application of the convention. i am a lawyer and i am very much interested in laws and legal texts, but i am also a father and i am particularly interested in the practical application of moral, political and cultural rules for the protection of children.
- (it) mr president, madam commissioner, in april 1999 the european parliament approved at first reading its legislative resolution on the commission proposal establishing a general framework for the information and consultation of workers in the european union. the proposal for a directive lays down a framework to fill the gaps and compensate for the shortcomings of the national and community legislation currently in force. the objectives of this proposal are: to ensure the existence of the right to regular information and consultation of workers on the economic and strategic developments of the undertaking and on decisions affecting them, in all the member states of the union; to strengthen social dialogue and the relationship of trust within the undertaking with the aim of contributing to risk prevention, the development of flexibility and the organisation of work in the context of safety, and the promotion and awareness of workers of the need for adaptation; to integrate the employment situation and development in the enterprise into information and consultation issues. the proposal also aims to ensure that workers are informed and consulted before any decision is taken which may involve substantial changes in the organization of work and contractual relations; the commission has also proposed that the council should ensure the effectiveness of this procedure by introducing specific sanctions for those who seriously breach the obligations relating to these sectors. in this connection, we have recently seen - as evidenced by certain debates in this house - how important it is to define a precise framework of reference for information and consultation. this proposal will ensure minimum standards of information and consultation to be applied throughout the union. it will therefore harmonize the fundamental rights of workers - which already exist in many member states - and will contribute to strengthening the european social dimension, which is the objective we all seek. the european parliament approved a series of amendments aimed in particular at specifying the information and consultation arrangements and drawing up a definition of them, especially as regards the time when information must be transmitted. we therefore believe that it is important that it takes place during the programming phase, so that workers can anticipate changes. it is also important to extend the scope of the directive and to ensure that it contains minimum provisions at community level, provisions from which it will not be possible to derogate except in favour of workers. the content should also be extended to cover subjects of direct concern to workers' rights and their future. the commission had approved certain amendments to this report and had expressed certain reservations about others. however - and that is the reason for this oral question - it has not yet put forward a revised proposal which clearly states its position on parliament's amendments. in addition - and i regret this, because we were expecting the finnish presidency to take this matter into consideration - the finnish presidency has not expressed the political will to take this matter forward. the purpose of this question is precisely to ask the commission not only to state clearly its position on parliament's proposals but, above all, to ask the commission how and when it will table its revised version in relation to parliament's position. i would like to ask the commissioner, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs - who has shown great sensitivity to these issues on other occasions - what are the conflicting aspects of the question and why has there not been a revised proposal so far? in addition, can the presentation of this proposal be expected by the end of this year? but above all, what steps does it intend to take to facilitate the conclusion of a political agreement on this matter, a fundamental agreement if the commission, the council and parliament are to take a final decision on the matter? in reality, we do not attach much importance to this and, moreover, it is part of a wider subject which concerns precisely the preparation and accompaniment of changes taking place on the labour market so that they do not lead to negative consequences, especially as regards the safety of workers and their workplace.
- (it) mr president, i would like to draw the house's attention to the interview - published yesterday - that our president, mrs fontaine, gave to the italian daily la stampa. in this interview, ms fontaine took an open and strong position in favour of state funding for private schools in italy. the question is now the subject of a very lively political debate in my country. it seems to me therefore quite inappropriate, if not unacceptable, for our president to take the side of one of the interested parties, given her institutional position. it also ignored an article of the italian constitution which states that everyone is free to open private schools without state intervention. i therefore urge the president to be more vigilant - when a political debate is taking place in a country of the union - and not to take the side of one of the parties involved and to respect, or at least to take account of, the constitutions in force in the various countries of the union.
- (it) mr president, what mr vattimo said does not correspond to reality. the president of this parliament merely said what the result of the vote by the assembly was of a european parliament resolution calling on all member states to respect their commitment to equality in education and thus to promote equality in education. it was not a position, it was just a consideration of what was happening, that's all. in any case, to try to exploit, in this parliament too, a political struggle in which the italian left is fighting for equality in education is, in my view, absurd and has nothing to do with the work of this parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last march parliament considered a first haug report on own resources. here's another one, sort of like haug 2, the return, but it's a weakened return. on 11 march we voted in our resolution for a paragraph which said: 'considers that the revenue system must be basically free of any derogations and special arrangements' etc., etc. we know very well what the council did in berlin and what the council based its berlin agreement on. we are now looking at a report in november, six months later, which says nothing on this point except for an amendment which i would like to see adopted, but it is a recital which tries to say a little bit of the same thing in more vague terms. the basic problem we are facing can be summed up simply as follows: either the own resources system is given to us in co-participation, is part of a package of measures which parliament will ask the igc to take care of so that it is - how should i put it - made more democratic, made more participatory, or, unfortunately, on this point we can only conclude that the ball is in the council's court and that it will remain there for a long time if our proposals are not taken into consideration. i therefore believe and hope that parliament, on the basis of this report, will be able to be fuelled by this reference and others, and by the elements contained therein, to join a formal demand that the intergovernmental conference be allowed to tackle both the reforms proposed to us and this fundamental aspect of parliament's full participation not only on the 'expenditure' side but also on the 'revenue' side of the union's budget.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, particularly for his ability to extract the nuclear question from this report. but beyond that, i think, as he does, that the problem with our parliament is that we do not find the time to deal in a general and thorough manner with the question of energy policy. it is due to the shortcomings of the treaty, of the treaties, and perhaps also of our parliament. in fact, with the recent report on renewable energies, this fundamental question has been watered down: i agree with our rapporteur and many of the speakers. as far as this report is concerned, we cannot limit it to the environmental impact of co2 this is a very important aspect of the problem, but as mr belder and others have said, there are many other aspects, particularly nuclear but not only nuclear, which have environmental implications and which will therefore have to be addressed. the problem is also one of appropriations. in the absence of a single energy policy, the european union is increasing its resources, particularly for research. this is proof that there is a policy in place which still favours nuclear power today, which i think is no longer tolerable. the 12% renewable energy target is quite insufficient and yet we risk not reaching it. it is therefore urgent to unify this energy debate in order to determine exactly our investment choices and to put an end to these contradictions which mean that at least five members of the european union, austria, italy, denmark, portugal and greece, which do not use nuclear energy, are obliged to finance a policy which is still more than 50% subsidised by the european union in the field of nuclear energy. i think it is urgent to open a debate to have a real discussion on the energy question and not to practice the policy of sausage making as has been the case until now.
- (it) mr president, i confirm that once again the radical members will not take part in the vote. the reason is, as you know, that we intend to denounce our inferiority in terms of parliamentary rights and the right to speak. i hope that this house will not begin to regard our speeches as an unpleasant habit, or even as a gesture to be ignored or mocked. this parliament must not get used to the persistence of such discriminatory conditions vis-à-vis certain members, which i think would be very serious. we would also like the presidency to show some attention, some sensitivity to this problem which we keep raising.
- (it) mr president, i agree with mr cappato. as a member of the movimento sociale, i too will continue to abstain in order to show my support for the struggle of members who are fighting for freedom and for better conditions for the european parliament's rules of procedure. i shall therefore abstain during this part-session, as will my colleagues from the radical party.
in writing. - despite its general title, once the gift wrapping is removed, it quickly becomes apparent that the motion for a resolution tabled by mr chichester is primarily aimed at promoting the nuclear industry on the pretext that it produces little co2, at least at the plant stage. while remaining very vague on most environmental issues concerning the energy sector, the resolution calls for nuclear electricity generation in eu countries to maintain at least its current share in the future. this is happening at a time when a growing number of european countries are deciding to phase out nuclear power. however, far more than electricity generation, the reduction of co2 emissions raises the problem of transport organisation - on which the resolution is silent. how silent it is about the considerable dangers inherent in the production of nuclear power and the accumulation, over the very long term, of radioactive waste! we can only vote against this motion for a resolution.
- (it) mr president, i hope that what our danish colleague has said will never happen and that the traditional model of families will not change. no, really, it's not funny. i do not think we should conceive of the family in terms of a model that is not part of the normal social order. we are talking about a very delicate problem, such as that caused by the mobility of citizens within the european union and which affects the internal relations within a family. we are basically talking about the protection of minors, a question which is already particularly difficult when minors live in what we can call normal or, better, traditional families. i think that listening to the child is a particularly delicate aspect. many of us, in various countries of the european union, have already faced the problem of child protection at a time when families are at a particularly difficult juncture in their history, such as the separation of spouses, with the repercussions this has - especially in psychological terms - on the children. i should like to use the short time allocated to me to emphasize only a few points. the problem of paternal power is particularly interesting, especially for the nomadic peoples who now number in europe. as municipal administrators, we too are often faced with particularly unpleasant cases which are not regulated. we have taken a huge step forward with this regulation - and i would like to thank the rapporteur for that. however, we will have to return to this problem, focusing more particularly on nomadic children, on gypsy children, and therefore on everything related to the internal problems of these families, with regard, among other things, to mobility in europe.
- (it) mr president, nuclear safety is a matter of fundamental importance in the context of the pre-accession strategy. the opening of accession negotiations with bulgaria depends on several conditions. one of them concerns the establishment of a reasonable timetable for the closure of units 1 to 4 of the kozloduy nuclear power plant, which should be drawn up before the end of 1999. this plant is obsolete. in agenda 2000, the executive classified nuclear power stations into three different categories: soviet-style plants, which have become obsolete and must be closed because of their dangerous nature; other power plants that need to be retrofitted to achieve safety levels acceptable to the union; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs on the report on nuclear actions for the ceecs and the newly independent states, which was unanimously adopted on 27 october last year, i stressed the paramount importance of safety. i believe that security is a condition which the applicant countries must fulfil in order to be able to join the union. millions of citizens in the european union and eastern european countries are concerned about nuclear safety. the abandonment of civilian nuclear power is not on the agenda. the economic and social implications of the decisions which the union wants to have adopted by the countries of central and eastern europe must be taken into account. however, the member states, whether they are neighbours or not, are concerned and refuse to join if this issue, namely nuclear safety, is not taken into account.
commission - (en) since i took office, i have said that i intend to examine the best scientific evidence available to me and make decisions on that basis. i have a unanimous opinion from the scientific steering committee following an earlier opinion from the same committee. that's what i base my decisions on. i think this is a very transparent process. the decision is based, as i said, on the opinion of the scientific steering committee. i do not see any lack of transparency in this respect. you raised the issue of the precautionary principle. sometimes the application of the precautionary principle is not fully understood. it shall apply only where there is no scientific evidence or where the available scientific evidence is so equivocal that it cannot be relied upon and where the potential damage is irreparable and the proposed solution is proportionate, cost-effective and time-limited. it seems to me that it is not wise to compare the bse problem with the hormone problem. the precautionary principle does not apply to the question of hormones. the decision on the presence of hormones in beef is based on scientific evidence - submitted to the commission by the appropriate scientific committee before i took up this post - that one of these hormones in particular - the hormone 17-beta-estradiol - is a clear carcinogen. in the light of this evidence, it seems to me appropriate to impose the ban, just as it seems to me inappropriate to lift the ban in the light of this opinion. as regards the bse crisis, it seems to me once again that the precautionary principle is not appropriate because we have a firm opinion from the scientific steering committee. its members come from most of the member states of the european union, scientists at the top of their careers and capabilities who provide advice on the subject. that's why i'm taking their advice. in view of the scientific opinion on the matter, the precautionary principle should not be applied. as far as labelling is concerned, this whole matter is under consideration and is before parliament. the commission will have the possibility of amending the legal principles if it so wishes. you raised the question of article 36. i believe that he would be an inadequate defense in this case. it does not, as i understand it, provide for a situation in which there is a harmonized market as there is. as regards transmission, there is no evidence of bse transmission other than the identified food and maternal transmission. until such evidence has been provided, it is reasonable to rely on the fact that these are the only two routes of transmission.
- (it) mr commissioner, at least 47 very important countries, including the united states and many commonwealth countries, are maintaining the embargo on british meat. the question i would like to ask you in light of your decision today is this: will you go all the way? will you ask the world trade organisation to take a position on this embargo? i do not think that is superfluous. secondly, the president of the court of auditors presented his annual report to us yesterday. he pointed out serious shortcomings in the keeping of livestock records in britain for cattle. when you made your decision today, did you take that into account?
commission. - it would be a great pity if i could not speak, because i had useful things to say to you. mr hatzidakis, the commission's position has not changed. in dramatic circumstances such as those which affected portugal and italy a few years ago and, more recently, greece, where i visited twice, in particular with our colleague anna diamantopoulou, a month ago and then just a few days ago, we rely on the same general regulation for the structural funds and we are accountants. you can ask nothing of the commission but to enforce and to enforce this regulation ourselves. but nevertheless, in the explanation of this regulation, there are possible answers, and i have confirmed this to the prime minister of your country, mr simitis, and to the various members of the government with whom i have met. the damage caused to the public in greece by the earthquake of 6 september, and i am speaking from memory, ladies and gentlemen, is estimated at about 2.5 billion euros. in order not to jeopardise the important effort, including fiscal stability, which it is engaged in to prepare for its entry into the euro, greece has called for external loans of around eur 1.9 billion. we have assessed that under the structural funds regulation, €1 billion of public expenditure is eligible. today, without changing the regulation, and this is the case, one billion euros of public expenditure was eligible for european aid, within the framework of the envelope allocated to greece. we're going to redistribute, redeploy this money to do the work that's needed after the earthquake, and that work will be subsidized at an average of 80%. for the rest, your country will probably receive in the coming days a loan of €900 million at an extremely attractive rate from the european investment bank. it seems to me, therefore, and i say this because it is a matter of solidarity between all the countries of the union, that following the earthquake in greece, a good response was given in terms of material damage. of course, the damage and loss of life cannot be repaired. nor can we do so in the context of the recent floods in france, which killed dozens of people. i simply want to say that in such cases i will be pragmatic enough to be able to adapt the objective i or objective ii programming to help these countries rebuild, as the national authorities request. this is regional development.
- as regards objective 2, italy has had enormous problems, if we are to believe what the press has told us about its first list of eligible points and areas. there seems to be a conflict between the commission's assessment and that of the italian authorities. i know you had a meeting with the minister of economy and finance. can you tell us what the situation is? has italy compromised the start of objective 2 or has this meeting been the occasion of a possible compromise between the respective positions of the commission and the italian government?
- madam president, i rise to welcome mr solana, of course, but i would like to ask, in relation to the olaf report on today's agenda, when the deadline for tabling amendments will be set. as a non-registered party, we have particular difficulties in obtaining signatures, as you know. we would therefore like to know when the deadline for tabling amendments to mr napolitano's report is.
- a 24-hour time limit, as the rules say?
- madam president, this morning you gave us 24 hours to amend.
- madam president, i am sorry, but the 24-hour countdown begins when all members have the document in their own language, in this case from noon today. the deadline for amendments would therefore be set at noon tomorrow, if i understand correctly.
- i don't really see how you're gonna do this, madam president, i'm sorry.
- (it) mr high representative, the institution of your office, and in particular your appointment, have generated great expectations amongst the large part - i think - of public opinion which believes that europe must have a common foreign and security policy if it is to, in some way, as you said, prove itself credible beyond trade or economic gigantism. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. your task is certainly more than difficult. i wouldn't say it's impossible, but you certainly need something other than our simple wishes - which we all present to you, they're free, they cost absolutely nothing. the departure, at least on the council's part, does not seem very promising to me. i refer to a fact which many people may consider marginal but which seems to me to be very significant: you described monday's council as 'historic' in the field of defence. is that possible ? i too think that this council is historic, but for different reasons and in a rather negative way. i am thinking here of the incomprehensible approach taken to an initiative promoted, for once, by the european union, namely the initiative on the moratorium on the death penalty. i understand that the ministers have decided to be particularly strict this time. they have decided to oppose rigidity to rigidity, to withdraw the moratorium proposal or at least to block it. they decided to show a great verbal and verbal maximalism, extremism, to oppose rigidity to rigidity, not to negotiate... so they decided to lose. this is such a surprising position that i wonder if any minister has read the amendment and the data, because we do not understand anything. unless what some suspect is true, that this moralistic and rigid position serves to embarrass certain major powers who are not particularly interested in the proposed moratorium. the commissioner, what we should have done is obvious: we should have brought along, through serious negotiations, moderate countries which do not apply the death penalty but which had adopted certain positions and showed a certain sensitivity towards the preamble - i repeat, towards the preamble - which referred to an article of the united nations charter. but why would you do that? are we amending the un charter, commissioner? what are we hoping to achieve with a moratorium proposal? reform of the security council, amendment of the charter? all this is beyond our understanding. admit that what happened on monday is unacceptable. as a result, the european union will - it seems - withdraw the proposal for a moratorium, or not even put it to the vote. imagine that: she freezes her. and we want to talk about credibility? the real truth, mr solana, is that europe today is very good at making loud and empty statements, but it is absolutely incapable of showing historical intelligence and of understanding where and how it is actually possible to negotiate. another wish, but this is really only a suggestion concerning the common foreign and security policy: perhaps it would be appropriate, in order to achieve diplomatic and military union, for us to follow the processes of economic and monetary union. we would thus move from declarations of principle to more concrete actions.
- (it) mr president, we are all aware that the challenges facing seattle are many and of great importance for the lives of the inhabitants of our planet. these are not technical questions, but may be of interest to expert groups in the ministries of foreign trade. it is not just that, and this is illustrated by the commitment which has been shown by the debate in this parliament - even though it still has only a small number of decisionmaking powers - but new facts have emerged in recent years which have somewhat eroded the omnipotence of the experts. in parallel with the meeting of governments, thousands of ngos, women and men from civil society will gather in seattle: they are strongly demanding that the wto not become one of the seats of this world government, based on growth and the supremacy of the most savage liberalism, which ignores the increase in poverty in the less industrialized and weaker countries, the destruction of the environment, the defence of natural and human resources and the differences and diversities of each country, all in the name of a globalization that continues to create wealth for the few and poverty for the many. thousands of women and men have debated and demonstrated in favour of a different economy, directly linked to everyday life and democracy: this is an exceptional democratic fact. why would you do that ? because the fact that 134 countries are members of the wto does not in itself guarantee transparency or democracy in decision-making processes, because, beyond the official statutes, the real reality is the contractual power of the strongest governments and multinationals that exercise it. for these reasons, we disagree with the schwaiger report, but we welcome the rapporteur's serious approach. we want the european parliament to take a clear and strong stand. we want the right to dignity, to health, to eradication of poverty, to housing, to freedom to transcend liberalism and profit. we must of course accept that europe continues to defend more humane traditions in the face of the united states' unbridled pursuit of its own interests. however, we believe that this is not enough: it is not enough to profess lofty principles, they must also be put into practice. the schwaiger report contains many positive elements: the defence of our agriculture, cultural diversity and other things, but i will limit myself, for the sake of time, to mention only some of the fundamental issues. the intellectual property treaties are a fundamental point. we believe, as do the ngos and many countries which have suffered the consequences of these treaties, that a moratorium is necessary to renegotiate them. just think of india. the legislation of this country does not provide for copyright in the field of medicines and foodstuffs. yet, herbs that are useful to multinational corporations, as well as to us, to treat our diseases, are produced in india and come from this country. and let us think of mandela's south africa: in retaliation for his attempt to make aids treatment more accessible, the wto has forced the country to withdraw the cheapest drugs. we join the requests of the countries of southern africa not to open negotiations on the possibility of patenting plants and animals or human cells, which would imply the exploitation of the wealth of the poorest for the benefit of multinational companies. in addition, we believe that the principles of precautions and food safety are crucial. we do not want to be invaded by genetically modified food. we therefore believe that the burden of proof should be reversed and that the experts should be genuinely independent, unconnected with the interests of governments and multinationals. we want to protect workers' rights, the right to strike, and to apply the codes of conduct that this parliament...
- (it) mr president, i ask to speak to remind you once again that since the beginning of this parliamentary term, radical members have not participated in the votes, either in the house or in committees. we want to draw the attention of the president and the members to the fact that some members do not have the opportunity to participate in parliamentary life in the same way and with the same means. the indifference with which the presidency and its colleagues have listened to and passively accepted our complaint for the past four months is a clear sign of the contradiction between their conviction and their democratic practice.
- (it) mr president, i agree once again with what mr turco has just said. i too, as a member of the movimento social, will not be taking part in the vote. i have already said yesterday - you can read it in yesterday's minutes - that i shall abstain throughout this part-session, for the reasons which our colleague mr turco has explained very well.
- before proceeding to the vote, pursuant to rule 80 (5) of the rules of procedure, i ask the commission to state its position on the amendments.
commission - mr president, the commission could accept the six amendments that were proposed. there's only four left. i accept the six, therefore i accept the four, mr president.
- as regards the first question you raised, mr casaca, you should know that amendment no 9 is an amendment of the commission. it is on the ballot, and it is on the ballot correctly. the basic text is in german. the reference text, on which we are voting, is the german text. as for amendment no 31, it is a compromise amendment tabled by the rapporteur. so it must be voted on before the rest. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
- my dear colleague, if you are puzzled by what i have said, you should ask for an electronic verification of the vote, as other members do when in doubt. it's very simple. but the last comment you made was hurtful. (applause) i would like to thank
- madam carlsson, colleagues normally ask for a written statement, which they confirm after the vote. once that confirmation is made, most of them leave this chamber. your request is indeed legitimate because the rules of procedure require that the member who announces that he wishes to make a written statement must be present. we will endeavour to reply to your question in writing as soon as possible.
- mr casaca, i did indeed read 'gross national product' because the abbreviation 'pnl' (pnb) appeared in the italian text, which means precisely gross national product. however, i have been informed by the parliament's services - and i confirm this information - that the original text, the authentic version, is the german version. therefore, the translations in the other languages will be aligned with the german version, with the consequences you have indicated. the answer i have to give you is this: the original version, the one that is authentic, is the german version. (the sitting was suspended at 1.10 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
- (de) mr president, i am particularly concerned that all over the world there is a growing tendency to try to resolve conflicts by means of arms. russia is no exception in this respect - and the european left bitterly regrets this - but it does not act any differently from what nato did in yugoslavia. i think that applauding mr solana this morning and now mr cohn-bendit is the worst kind of opportunism. it had to be said! the decisive challenge facing the european parliament is to reverse the trend away from the military option and towards the prevention and peaceful resolution of conflicts. we have rightly condemned the war in chechnya and have postponed the decision on extending our cooperation with russia. we expect the same from the council. his statement yesterday is an encouraging sign, but it comes too late. i hope that the council will not take so long to follow our proposal to freeze relations and tacis programmes with russia until the weapons have been silenced. attacks on refugee convoys and inhabited areas, as well as the closure of borders and the obstruction of international charitable organizations providing humanitarian aid, are not only contrary to the geneva convention for the protection of civilian persons and other international obligations, but are simply inhuman and totally unacceptable. i think it is obvious and essential that the european union should step up its humanitarian aid to the people of this region. we must not, however, relieve russia of its responsibility for the protection and supply of refugees and people living in the war zones. the same is true for the reconstruction of the country.
- (it) mr president, to talk about chechnya is to talk about kosovo, is to question this famous duty of interference, a principle which is unfortunately as noble as it is vague. this principle is used too loosely, often because of particular political or economic interests. this principle of interference has so far proved to be a failure, since the milosevic regime is still firmly in power in a country which has made a historical and economic leap backwards of at least 30 years. while most of the albanian population has returned to their own territory, 10% of the serbian population in kosovo and the entire roma population have been forced into exile. the situation is even worse in chechnya. it's been two months since the russian army entered chechen territory. these areas have already been devastated and ravaged economically and humanely three years ago, and hundreds of thousands of people have died. today we are talking about the bombing of civilian populations, which has caused over 3000 deaths and 200,000 refugees. all this while the international community, cloaked in its "virtue", justifies the russian intervention by calling it an action to combat terrorism and the international monetary fund subsidizes the power of boris yeltsin with lost funds, despite the billions of dollars embezzled by the russian authorities. it is true that chechnya is part of the russian federation, but that does not give russian troops the right to slaughter men, women and children legally. the international community, our union, has a duty not to stand by idly, if it has indeed the virus of human rights protection. the region is devastated by war and, in the meantime, the european union is increasing its commitment to humanitarian aid and to the financing of the traseca project, which aims to link the black sea to central asia. in the chechen crisis, the energy factor - gas and oil - played an important role. american companies have been interested in caspian sea oil as an alternative source of supply to the persian gulf. they led the state department to draw up a strategic map of possible routes: the most important would be the caspian sea-turkish port of ceyhan route, which touches the baku-russian port of novorossiysk axis. the russian military intervened in 1994 to demonstrate that russia controlled the operational oil pipelines that allowed the export of production from the capsian sea and to avoid the risk of being excluded from the american game. the union must have only one objective: to help restore peace and find a new status for chechnya, as provided for in the agreement signed by russia and chechnya on 31 august 1996. the union must also commit itself to recalling that if europe wants to defend human rights, it cannot continue to approve of russia's use of force and the army as its only political instrument.
mr president, to the speeches by mr morillon, mr cohn-bendit, mr posselt and mr schori, with whom i fully agree, i would like to add only two things. it should be remembered that the then soviet union has stepped up the process of decolonisation, even when it was not always clear that the people concerned wanted decolonisation. today we are faced with an empire, the only one that has saved the economy from decolonization. historically, it is indisputable that the russian empire colonized a large part of the caucasus, that is, non-russian populations. that's the first thing. i say this as a federalist, and as a non-state supporter. secondly, and i am addressing myself more directly to mr patten and the council, it is urgent that the european union should have a policy in the caucasus, a region of which chechnya is a part. it is urgent that it has a policy that guarantees stability, not only for chechnya, but also for chechnya from georgia, from azerbaijan, from armenia. we know the problems that have arisen in this last country in particular; it follows that a genuine european policy is urgently needed in this region.
- (it) mr president, i wonder whether these documents are morally correct, especially since they seem to me to be quite useless. the documents on the caucasus and chechnya contain the same elements as the council of europe document which was approved two weeks ago. it seems to be a necessary rhetorical exercise, loaded, as usual, with noble principles and expectations. the european union expresses its concern, stresses, reprimands, calls for dialogue which is known to be impossible and confines itself to condemning - and this is the first element i want to mention - one thing only: the disproportionate, indiscriminate use of force in chechnya. so it could be said that a little war does no harm to anyone, as long as it is not exaggerated. but tell me something: what is a disproportionate war? secondly, the bombing strategy based on the nato model should be the response to the attacks in various russian cities. is there any evidence, is there any suspicion that these attacks were carried out by chechens? what serious investigation can confirm this hypothesis? can we reasonably cause thousands of people to die and 200,000 people to be forced to leave their country just because of a presumption of guilt? the european union wants a negotiated solution - happy is he who believes in the possibility of negotiations. russians in the caucasus, on the other hand, distinguish between the bad ones - those who seek independence - perhaps even giving them islamic colours, and the good ones, namely those who collaborate with them and no one else. so who is talking to whom?
- (it) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, which we have all read. in my view, the millennium cycle is taking place at a particular moment in the european and, above all, international economy. in fact, globalisation has become a topic of debate on a daily basis. globalisation has led to free markets and has made it possible to achieve productive results in other economic areas. i do not mean by this that we are faced with a perfect market, and for that very reason, knowing the advantages and the deteriorations of this market, we must try - through agreements such as those proposed by the wto - to establish standards and rules to protect us all from excesses of all kinds. just think of the financial speculation that can ruin entire geographical areas, leading them to poverty or even to institutional disruption. the wto negotiating cycle is not, however, aimed at creating a supranational body, as is often feared, that would supplant international law or refuse to fluctuate the free market. it also wants, and above all, to offer us safe rules for all, while protecting certain fundamental rights such as the right to health, education or social services as part of the protection of the rights of every citizen. on the other hand, as far as the prices of goods and services are concerned, it is necessary to ask not only for a tariff reduction but also and above all for a certain level of quality of goods and services, in order to protect small and mediumsized enterprises. this will be an increasingly fundamental factor in the future and it is just as crucial to underline the great importance of agriculture in individual economies by protecting small and mediumsized enterprises through appropriate standards - the report underlines this point, but it is up to each of us to make it go further and further. if we can meet these constraints and improve the quality of life through sustainable development, both economically and environmentally, we will certainly have laid the foundations for a better society for the new millennium.
- (it) madam president, i would like to make only two comments. firstly, it has been said too often in this debate that europeans must fear international trade and the millennium cycle. international trade - europe is david ricardo's homeland - has made it possible in recent decades, thanks to a new international distribution of labour, to achieve a certain level of wealth, to achieve a certain degree of integration and to curb a poverty which, with the increase in population and in the absence of international trade, would be much more dramatic than it is today. the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. and we want to discuss the death penalty and other issues in inappropriate contexts, like trade agreements.
- (it) mr president, the attempt of the schwaiger report to reconcile what has so far proved irreconcilable is admirable, and the equally admirable effort of the rapporteur is evident from the first recital. in this first recital it is acknowledged that multilateral relations have allowed a strong increase in world trade without substantially reducing economic inequalities in the world. it is not a question of expressing opposition, of seeking greater efficiency in the system of multilateral relations, but above all of paying the greatest possible attention to certain important aspects. the first of these is the persistence of inequalities between developing and industrialized countries, but we must not forget the social dumping that is taking place within these industrialized countries. it is an undeniable fact that the process of european convergence towards the introduction of the single currency has created opportunities for growth and development for all the member states. today, however, we are faced with a different process of convergence. this process takes place mainly in macro-territorial contexts where europe does not appear to be in a strong position. its economic characteristics - based on small and medium-sized enterprises - and its cultural and social characteristics are therefore likely to be compromised. on the social side, we do not think that social protection systems and public services, i am thinking of schools, social security systems - including health - and pension schemes, should be part of the services to be regulated. the second aspect concerns agriculture. in this area, alongside market liberalisation for developing countries, there is a call not only for the maintenance of community principles - support for environmental policy, definition of a food policy aimed at consumer protection - but also for the protection of typical national agricultural characteristics and products. the third aspect concerns investment and related rules, as well as the local conditions necessary for their implementation. the first conditions for this are tariff and tax advantages. the prerequisite should be at least the harmonization of the institutes, or even the rates. moreover, the recognized prerogative of the states with regard to this policy should even be translated into the possibility for the latter to apply this policy separately on the internal territory, otherwise the flexibility of work would continue to represent the only condition - beyond the simplification of procedures. we hope that the principles of the ilo and the relevant conventions will be accepted in this area, starting with the convention on the protection of minors at work. finally, we hope that parliament will be able to play an active role in the millennium cycle, and to this end it must first of all take note of the study carried out by the commission on the impact assumptions of the new regulatory process.
- (it) mr president, i believe that the millennium cycle is an important opportunity to promote the opening up of international markets to competition, to extend the safeguards to combat anti-competitive practices and finally to tackle the question of investment. the liberalization of world trade is a positive process. it generates a certain development and it can be hindered not only by the protectionist practices followed by the states but also by the emergence of situations of distortion of competition such as the abuse of a dominant position, cartels, dumping - such as that of the shipbuilding industry - which seriously harm europe. this is relatively new ground for the international trade organization but it is very important. the same will apply to new negotiations on another subject: the search for the opening up of national markets to foreign investment. it is important that the schwaiger report and this parliament recognize that the world trade organisation is the appropriate framework for serious investment negotiations where we will have to give priority to security and clarity of law in investment protection but also, of course, to the protection of the social, environmental and cultural laws of the states. the schwaiger report naturally places more emphasis on protection. i think it is substantially in line with the commission's proposal; it therefore expresses its absolute confidence in the work of commissioner lamy on this sensitive issue. it nevertheless takes into account that the liberalisation of international trade, even in new environments - such as investment - is particularly important for the countries of the european union and all countries interested in the sustainable development of the world economy.
- (it) mr president, the schwaiger report confirmed the european union's commitment to the creation of a permanent working forum between the international labour organisation and the world trade organisation on trade, globalisation and labour issues. this commitment by the union is the only way forward if respect for fundamental labour rights is to be combined with trade liberalisation and trade in general, without falling into selfish and hypocritical protectionism or unfair and self-destructive competition. in this respect, the union must regard the bilateral agreement signed by the united states and china to prepare for china's entry into the world trade organisation not only as an important contribution to the multilateral process but also and above all as a fundamental opportunity to verify the present and future importance of human rights in the face of the opportunities offered by a market with enormous potential, the chinese market. in this connection, it should be noted that the 174 ilo member countries - countries which, with the 1998 solemn declaration, committed themselves to respect the four categories of fundamental labour rights, even though they have not ratified the conventions - are largely members of the wto. since international organizations are such as the member states wish them to be, it is legitimate to ask the member states to be consistent in all respects. the desired entry of china into the wto - for which the european union is actively negotiating - will certainly make the organization more representative and increase its potential capacity to create a free but also regulated world trade. however, we must not make a mistake: many of the problems of human rights in china are still unresolved or are not yet being solved. we should also remember that in the past the united states adopted a policy of 'double standards' in respect of the social clause. however, it is better to try to assert these rights within international institutions than in a bilateral context, according to the convenience of the moment.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, i should like to thank parliament for this debate. it will play an important part in the preparations for the next intergovernmental conference and i must say that i very much agree with the general objectives set out in the report to make the union more efficient, more transparent and more democratic. however, let me tell you about the progress of preparations for the igc 2000 during the finnish presidency. a month ago, mr lipponen, the finnish prime minister, came to you to report on the results of the tampere european council and also spoke of the preparations for the igc. we are now only three weeks away from the helsinki summit and we are entering the final stretch of preparations for this igc. the enlargement of the european union requires reform of the institutional system. the european union must frankly acknowledge this reality: enlargement creates the need for change; we must find a solution to these changes within the community. we must have the political courage to seek long-term solutions and to carry out the reforms that the european union so badly needs. as you will no doubt remember, at the cologne summit last june, the task of preparing the next igc was given to the next presidency, that is to say finland. technical preparations were made during the autumn at the level of the permanent representatives. we have now moved to the political level and are holding bilateral discussions at various levels with the other member states, the european parliament and the commission. mr lipponen will begin next week the traditional tour of the capitals which precedes the european council. preparations for the igc 2000 will be one of the main themes of this tour. the european parliament's resolution is therefore timely in relation to this round as well. we have assumed that preparations on the basis of the mandate given in cologne mean three particular things in practice: the size and composition of the commission, the revision of the weighting of votes in the council, the extension of decision-making by qualified majority and, in addition to these three points, other institutional matters which are closely linked to them. the debate on reform of the european union is now well under way and during the autumn the debate on the igc was extremely lively in various fora. a month ago, the group of experts set up by commission president prodi published a report calling for far-reaching institutional reforms. on the basis of this report, the commission presented its views last week on the way in which it envisages the igc 2000 and on the subjects which the igc should deal with. here, too, the igc has been on the agenda of many committees in the european parliament. we know that many of you are genuine igc experts and we appreciate the contribution of the european parliament to the debate. tomorrow you will vote on the parliament's position on the igc 2000. i promise you that we will take careful note of the views you adopt tomorrow. the way in which the european parliament will participate in the next intergovernmental conference is a very important question. i have heard from various quarters extremely positive comments on the valuable and constructive contribution of members élisabeth guigou and elmar brok to the 1996 igc. as regards igc 2000, the member states have not yet decided definitively on the way in which the european parliament will participate. in connection with the preparations for the conference, the extent of the conference agenda was particularly controversial. in addition to the three themes mentioned in the cologne conclusions, various aspects were discussed, including the ec court of justice, the distribution of seats in the european parliament, flexibility and the division of the treaties into two parts. we will present in our report our own views on what, after the discussions we have had and on the basis of the opinions we have gathered, is possible and desirable. there are several points on which the bodies involved in the preparations for the conference are practically unanimous. first, whatever the scope of the igc agenda, the main thread must be enlargement and the reforms it entails. secondly, no one is questioning the fact that europe will emerge from enlargement strengthened. community decision-making and the european union's possibilities for action must not be weakened by enlargement. thirdly, all the participating bodies are willing to commit themselves to a timetable for completing the negotiations by the end of 2000, during the french presidency. reforms must be unanimous as soon as possible if enlargement is not to be delayed by internal timetable problems. i have confined myself to the changes which require an igc. it must be borne in mind, however, that institutional reforms can also be carried out without affecting the treaties. in my view, these reforms must be pursued in a coherent and effective manner in parallel with the igc. i hope that by modernising the institutions and reviewing the methods of action, we can bring the european union closer to the citizens. the finnish presidency stressed the need to improve the efficiency and transparency of the european union's action. we have made a step forward in this area during our presidency. from the beginning of its presidency, finland has implemented the recommendations of the trumpf-piris report, the application of which does not require a specific decision by the member states. we have worked to increase the transparency of the council and to improve the accessibility of documents. as a concrete measure, we have published the agenda and timetable for council and working group meetings. we also proposed that the agenda for council meetings on legislative work be published. this is what i had to say briefly about the state of preparations for the intergovernmental conference in 2000. next week i will have the opportunity to discuss more with you when i am heard by the committee on constitutional affairs on the progress of the igc preparations. we are on the verge of taking - once again - decisions of great importance for the future of the european union. the adoption of these decisions and their implementation in due course will require flexible and disinterested cooperation on the part of all the institutions. i can assure you that the council is prepared to cooperate with the european parliament to ensure the success of the next intergovernmental conference.
- thank you, mr president sasi.
- thank you, mr. mendez from vigo. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
- (it) mr president, we are on the threshold of a new round of reforms and yet another intergovernmental conference. unlike the millennium cycle, we have not yet succeeded in arousing the interest of public opinion, non-governmental organizations and even our colleagues on this issue, which is still far from our concern. we must nevertheless take advantage of this opportunity. on the other hand, as mr dimitrakopoulos and mr leinen have pointed out in their report - and i thank them for this - we are struggling to find ways of turning this confusing machine into a modern democracy, of making rights, policies and decisions more transparent for all and of making the union more open and welcoming. with this resolution, the european parliament sought to broaden the revision process and the agenda of the intergovernmental conference. to be honest, i don't know if we'll ever get there. parliament is in an objective position of weakness when it is in dialogue with governments, which does not make things any easier. my group, however, feels that certain points need to be clarified. the commission has therefore tabled amendments which i hope will be of interest to this house. the european parliament cannot - as the commission often does - hold a dialogue with governments alone. it must therefore seek to open up and introduce a constitutional perspective, so to speak, so that the instruments for making democracy effective are clear to everyone and not just to a few specialists. as regards the method, we think that sending two observers is not enough: two parliamentarians observing a diplomatic conference and who, moreover, are bound by a duty of confidentiality can only be a weak and unambitious pretext. if we are to open the intergovernmental process, we must move towards a political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on the content of the reform. secondly, the agenda must not be limited to technical items and relics of amsterdam. the co-decision procedure with the european parliament and the majority vote must become the rule, even in difficult sectors such as agriculture and taxation. citizenship needs to be clarified. i wonder why the report specifically mentions the need to maintain unanimity. that's not necessary at all. we want to strengthen democracy, increase codecision and impose majority voting in the council. there is no need to reassure governments: they do not need to be reassured; they're the ones who decide in the end. finally, mr president, although it is very fashionable today to talk about defence, my group remains convinced - even if it has differences of opinion - that it is not productive to talk about security in a purely military context. the intergovernmental conference will not be of much use if we limit ourselves to discussing how best to integrate 15 different armies. we believe that we can only talk about security and defence in the context of a general communitization and democratization of foreign policy.
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. - (it) mr president, this report has been approved by a large majority of the committee on constitutional affairs. in my view, this confirms in a significant way the shared pro-european orientations which have marked the history of this parliament in its relations with the other community institutions, with the national parliaments, with public opinion. we have taken bold steps - and we wish to continue to do so - in favour of the process of european integration and its constant and coherent development. political tensions marked the beginning of this parliamentary term, but they did not prevent the necessary convergence between the various parliamentary groups, some of the most important, on the strengthening of the union, its institutions and its policies. it is important to reach agreement at this stage on the proposal to be made for the revision of the treaties, the convening of the new intergovernmental conference, the definition of the agenda and the method. the positions expressed in parliament the day after the vote in our committee support those expressed in the dimitrakopoulos-leinen report. i refer to the communications by president prodi and mr barnier on behalf of the european commission. this is now a matter of course and everyone will have to take it into account: parliament and the commission are working in the same direction, both are convinced that the scope, organisation and agenda of the intergovernmental conference must not be limited. we have had a long discussion in the committee on constitutional affairs, which shows that parliament wants to be both farsighted and realistic, demanding and practical. we must stop believing that parliament is making god knows what dangerous claims and making impossible demands. our proposals are not an abstract system or a luxury, but reflect objective requirements which cannot be avoided, the requirements of a general reform of the union's institutions. we must look beyond amsterdam and look farther ahead if we are to be able to fulfil the historic commitment to enlarge europe to the east and to protect the further development of the integration process against the existing risks, the risks of dilution and stagnation. no one can ignore the problems of strengthening political europe and institutional change that have confronted us with the birth of the euro and the european central bank, the kosovo tragedy, the vague expectation of a guaranteed area of security and justice, the disillusionment of too many voting citizens. we are making this appeal in particular to national governments and parliaments, with whom we must be able to build a more united, stronger and more democratic europe.
- (it) mr president, the roman jurists said that ex facto oritur jus. i think we must recognize that mr dimitrakopoulos and mr lienen have in fact laid the foundations of a new foedus, a kind of pact for european unity which takes account of differences, attempts to mediate and, above all, advances the founding unities and principles. to secure a democratic future, europe still has much to do. however, we now seem to have some common ground: a genuinely common foreign and security policy is needed. i believe that, alongside banking and the economy, social and structural policies, the common foreign and security policy will be an additional factor in the promotion of genuine integration. we need a european parliament which sets the general rules of the union - like the council - and which is fully involved in the appointment of the members of the other institutions. it must be able to establish a relationship of trust with the european commission which is no longer weakened by the double qualified majority now required for the motion of censure. decisions of the council of ministers must be taken by majority vote. other issues such as the greater integration of national parliaments into the community decisionmaking process, in my view, complicate matters unnecessarily. the regions and local communities should also participate with greater dignity in the formulation and implementation of community law. what is provided for in the provisions on the structural funds could become a basic principle of the new european construction. the european parliament must play a truly constituent role, taking up the spirit of alcide de gasperi, schuman, adenauer and kohl - to remain in the popular european tradition - a spirit already represented by important figures from other political families: altiero spinelli, françois mitterand, henri spaak. we are approaching a decisive season for the survival of europe as an entity and a model. the attacks are no longer military but economic and political, the adversaries are no longer the same as during the cold war. if we are to equip ourselves to meet the challenge of the new millennium, we must equip ourselves with the necessary legal and institutional instruments, on the basis that the union will remain what it is only if it is able to question itself and to take that great leap forward.
mr president, i am pleased to make this point of order before the commission and the council because the matter is particularly serious. at 5 p.m. today, a text signed by mr barón crespo and some of his associates asked that the debate on the napolitano report, which was due to take place at 7 p.m., be postponed until tomorrow. it was requested, in an urgent motion, that a debate scheduled for 8 p.m. this evening be postponed until tomorrow morning. explain to us why the emergency. this request was also made under rule 112 of our rules of procedure, which refers to rule 60, whereas mr napolitano's report, as is very clearly stated in the report's foreword, is a report which refers to rule 181, because it concerns the rules of procedure of our parliament. it is therefore not a legislative proposal or similar text, as mr barón crespo claims. mr barón crespo has been accustoming this parliament for the last 15 years to these stalinist methods, to this soviet way of looking at a parliament. we want, apart from any substantive considerations which we shall be discussing tomorrow, to try to enlighten members on a mistake which has been made, so as not to continue in that mistake. we are embarking on a dead end path, ignoring the prerogatives of members, ignoring the history of parliamentarism in the european union and all its member states, and we are prepared, because we do not want to correct a mistake we made six months ago, to institutionalize whistleblowing in our parliament, to allow any assistant or official of this parliament to make a report because he suspects the cousin of the brother-in-law of this or that may have committed fraud! this is absolutely outrageous! i ask that this decision of parliament be annulled. she's not eligible. i ask, in the name of rule 115, that the debate be put on the agenda 24 hours after the various versions have been made available to members, that is to say not before noon tomorrow. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, first of all i would like to say that mr corbett's speech may have been a political speech but that it was not a reference to the rules of procedure either, except to reply to mr dupuis. i mean, i... (the president cut the speaker off)
- rule 112 must be applied in accordance with the rules of procedure. article 112 refers to article 60. mr corbett is too familiar with the regulation to be unaware that this rule does not apply to amendments to the regulation concerning the treaty or interinstitutional agreements. so i support mr dupuis's request. i suggest that we come tomorrow morning after weighing mr dupuis's arguments and mine to consider the request made by the three groups as inadmissible. we could be wrong. in this case, the case is clearly inadmissible, since they are not based on the rules of procedure but on a somewhat misinterpretation of the rules governing our assembly.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the european union is very concerned about the production of narcotics in afghanistan, the direct and indirect effects of which are felt over a very large geographical area. the presidency decided that one of the priorities of its action in the field of drugs would be to monitor the situation in iran and afghanistan. the negative effects on civil society, particularly in europe, and in russia, central asia and iran, cannot be underestimated. the european union is concerned that the majority of heroin consumed in the member states originates from afghan poppy fields. it took note of the recent unodc report which stated that afghanistan is now the undisputed largest producer of opium. its share in world opium production is 75 per cent. opium production in 1999 increased by more than 100 per cent over the previous year and was the highest quantitatively to date, estimated at 4 600 tonnes, as a result of a significant increase in the area under cultivation. the council set out the overall policy of the european union in the revised common position of the european union on afghanistan adopted on 25 january 1999. the main objectives with regard to afghanistan include the pursuit of lasting peace and the promotion of internal dialogue in afghanistan by supporting the leading role of the united nations, the promotion of stability and development of the entire region through peace in afghanistan and the strengthening of the fight against drugs and terrorism. because of the political instability and civil war in the country, not a single eu member state has recognised the taliban government. the common position calls on the member states to maintain contacts with all groups in afghanistan. the european union has repeatedly condemned the human rights violations that have occurred in the country, in particular the continued and systematic discrimination against women and girls, summary executions and the system based on harsh discipline and oppression. the european union considers that participation in drug control measures is difficult, given the critical political situation in afghanistan and the lack of conditions for the establishment of bilateral relations. the european union has taken note of the fact that the undp launched a pilot programme in afghanistan, which progressed slowly but steadily in 1998. the programme is based on a commitment by the uncdp to fund development in specific poppy growing areas, in return for which the taliban agreed to ban poppy growing in new areas, let the uncdp control the poppy harvest and take measures to combat drug trafficking and destroy illegal laboratories.
- (it) mr president, i am quite willing to believe that the council is concerned about what has happened. my question was different, however, and concerned past performance. according to them, production has doubled. in the common position of january 1998, the council committed itself to the union's support for all unido's efforts in afghanistan, and you have done so by means of your financial aid. it is the result of these financial aids that is problematic. the result was a doubling of production. so my question is: will you continue on this path of ruin that is not just about afghanistan? what's the matter, man? in fact, the european union continues to fund pnucid also for programmes such as the strengthening of criminal codes in countries such as china and burma, countries which sentence to death simple drug users. and we indirectly fund and collaborate on these kinds of projects. in the face of the clear, documented failure of these policies, the question is therefore: will we continue to fund these kinds of projects which, in reality, strengthen totalitarian regimes, regimes run by criminals and tyrants who do not respect human rights? that's the question.
counsel. - (sv) as i said, no decision has yet been taken on possible cooperation with bangkok. this is a proposal which is currently being considered by the council. in my opinion, the outcome of this study should be positive. as the honourable member has said, it is clear that we are dealing with a number of issues during this part-session about which very little information is being disseminated to the public. as regards the results, it is in the interest of the council, the commission and the eu as a whole to report to the public on the progress achieved, as this is in itself a way of strengthening action and achieving better results in the fight against drugs.
- (it) mr president-in-office of the council, the annual $18 billion allocated to the fight against drugs is increasingly being called into question in the united states. in a very recent edition, the financial times called on european public opinion to reconsider prohibitionist policies. i wonder whether a cost-benefit assessment has been integrated into the evaluation which, we have been told, the council is carrying out, to find out what the cost to european taxpayers of these so-called drug interventions is and what practical benefits they bring.
- madam president, on page 20 of the minutes it is stated that i supported mr dupuis. we're colleagues and we agree on a lot of things. that wasn't the point. mr dupuis's and my interventions were intended to challenge the request made by mr barón on the application of article 112. so the request i made was addressed to the presidency to assess its admissibility and to let us know this morning what the situation was with regard to the admissibility of that request.
- madam president, i think mr. voggenhuber wants to speak against this proposal. i am intervening on the inadmissibility of this request, since rule 112 refers to rule 60, which concerns commission proposals and legislative texts. mr barón crespo has a very flexible approach to our rules of procedure. yesterday he was talking about article 60, today he is talking about article 61, the constitutional aspect. the audience can see the richness of the nights in strasbourg and the capacity to develop our internal law. in the preamble to mr napolitano's report, there is an explicit reference to article 199 of the treaty of amsterdam, and that article deals explicitly with the rules of procedure of our parliament. so this is further proof that the procedure requested by mr barón crespo yesterday has nothing to do with article 112. i therefore ask you, madam president, not to put it to the vote and to consider this request by mr barón crespo inadmissible.
the rapporteur. - (it) madam president, i fully agree with your definition of the mandate of the committee on constitutional affairs. this mandate is very specific and very limited. it is simply a matter of inserting the institutional agreement into our rules of procedure. i therefore agree with what you said about the nature of the report.
- (it) mr president, i would just like to remind you that rule 115 of the rules of procedure, which has already been taken into consideration for the napolitano report, provides that 'except in the urgent cases provided for in rules 50 and 112, discussion and voting may only be opened on a text if it has been distributed for at least 24 hours'. well, i would point out that the last amendments to the giannakou-koutsikou report were distributed last night. the last amendment translated - amendment no 20 in the french version - was distributed yesterday evening at 9.52 p.m. the 24 hours before the opening of the debate and the vote - as stated in the rules of procedure - have therefore not elapsed. i therefore ask the president whether we will apply the urgency procedure again, which is not justified in this case by the rules of procedure, because in that case it would be the same as throwing the rules of procedure out of the window and decreeing that everything that is urgent can be dealt with - it is enough to call what we have urgent. as far as i know, no proposal has been made to classify this report as an emergency. i would like to understand one thing: will we act with this debate and this vote exactly as we did with the napolitano report ? are we going to ignore our rule? that's the problem.
- thank you, mr cappato, for this reminder of the rules of procedure, even though we have already debated this question and a decision has already been taken on it. i do not think it is appropriate to reopen the debate on whether or not the rules of procedure have been respected.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, i hope that the few members still present in the house will pay some attention to this report. i am sorry to say that although many members feel that this is a very sensitive issue, many do not follow the debate. i also regret the facts on which i shall now dwell on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs. what i am about to say, ladies and gentlemen, is very important and concerns the text which did not obtain the qualified majority in this house during the last part-session and to which certain amendments were made at the instigation of the main political group in parliament which had then expressed certain reservations and had demanded more clarifications. the committee on constitutional affairs has in fact approved three amendments proposed by mr méndez de vigo. through these amendments, and in accordance with the application of the interinstitutional agreement within parliament, the president of parliament - who will receive information on members - has been given a special role. the committee also approved an amendment proposed by mr nassauer and mr brok which guarantees - i am reading the text of the amendment, which becomes the new article 4 of the decisionmaking model - that 'the rules relating to parliamentary immunity and the right of members to refuse to testify remain unchanged'. the full respect of the protocol on privileges and immunities - article 10 of which i would like to mention is very precise and very comprehensive - and of the related standards referred to in article 6 of the regulation, which, in accordance with the guidelines of the protocol contained in the aforementioned article, govern parliamentary immunities even more, has been strengthened. this is already guaranteed in several parts of the text. i would like to say to those who have expressed doubts and concerns that, thanks to these amendments proposed by the group of the european people's party, they can vote in favour of this text with greater confidence. i must, however, remind you immediately, and confirm to you, of the type of mandate given to the committee on constitutional affairs - mrs fontaine also mentioned this - and the subject of the decision which parliament must take. the mandate was - and remains - as follows: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. amend the regulation by introducing a new article 9a without making any changes to the institutional agreement. i would remind those members who were not in the previous parliament of this in particular. my personal situation is no different: on 6 may last year, parliament gave its president a mandate to sign this interinstitutional agreement, which was signed on 25 may. i respect the reservations and concerns of members - newly elected members or members of parliament from the previous parliament - about this agreement. i have nevertheless had to reject in committee the amendments which seek to alter the institutional agreement which we are simply obliged to apply. what you are probably concerned about, what you are about to read, is not the result of a decision by this parliament, but of the decision-making model which is an integral part of the interinstitutional agreement, already published - in the same terms - in the official journal of 31 may last. we have merely made technical amendments to it to enable it to be properly applied in our parliament. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to remind you that although the experience of the application of this interinstitutional agreement suggests that we should reopen the debate on certain points, we will indeed discuss these matters again. today, however, i think we must not forget that we signed our commitment to implement this interinstitutional agreement. (applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, i just want to make it clear to the minutes that in addition to the consequences of this scandalous interpretation of the rules of procedure, i have also lost my speaking time. i was registered, i had a lot to say, but after these outrageous manipulations, i can no longer intervene.
- this debate is over. the vote will take place at 12 noon.
- the next item is the report (a5-0059/1999) by mr pirker, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation on the establishment of the eurodac system for the comparison of the fingerprints of asylum seekers and certain other aliens (com (1999) 260 - c5-0082/1999 - 1999/0116 (cns)).
- (it) madam president, i would just like to remind you and the members of this parliament that the radical members present - della vedova, cappato, dupuis, dell'alba and turco - will not be taking part in today's vote either, even though they are present. a parliament which does not have the courage to deal with a flagrant case of discrimination against some of its members and millions of european citizens is not, in my view, fit to give lessons in democracy to many of the countries we have condemned, as was the case again this morning.
- (it) mr president, the resolution we are about to vote on, in a rather neutral and courteous way, describes and makes a judgment on the facts which led to the withdrawal of the moratorium proposal. i fear that the reasons for withdrawing this resolution are, to say the least, suspect. these reasons, in my view, are more about boycott than defending arguments of principle. i sincerely hope that parliament will be vigilant in this matter because there is no doubt that some member states have shown an ambiguous attitude to say the least. it is therefore logical that parliament - which has always been rather consistent in this regard - should remain vigilant. the green group takes note of these facts and of the rather lukewarm wording of this resolution. we believe, however, that it is important to adopt it, at least to signal the existence of a problem which should be further addressed. however, i would stress again that from this point of view no one is unaware of the ambiguity of the european union and we should, in my view, express ourselves more clearly than we have done in this resolution.
- mr president, i entirely agree with mrs díez gonzález on the need to try to persuade the council to introduce a clause on the death penalty and the abolition of the death penalty in agreements with third countries. but perhaps we should also try to convince our colleagues in the socialist group to be firm on this point. that has not been the case so far, and i wish mrs díez gonzález well. that said, i think the substance of the problem has been raised by mrs frassoni and mr salafranca. we are not talking about the death penalty here. our parliament has repeatedly demonstrated its conviction that this universal moratorium is necessary. this is a matter of foreign policy and, more precisely, once again, the question of the absence of a foreign policy for the european union. i'm more radical than mrs frassoni. there is no ambiguity. on monday the council decided to withdraw the motion it had tabled on the grounds that it was a reference to a fundamental article of the universal charter of human rights; on tuesday it voted texts with the same recall of the fundamental articles of the charter. the problem is clearly the lack of political will, and the reasons for this are easy to understand: pressure from major countries such as the people's republic of china, the united states and japan, which have ensured that this policy, which was decided by the union, has been literally betrayed at the last moment. the central problem facing us as a parliament is therefore the need for a common european security and foreign policy. one of the first things we 're going to ask is that this file be transferred to mr. solana . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we need a permanent contact person who can, under his authority, organise the work of the various delegations of the member states in new york so that next year we have a position that is consistent from beginning to end. this would avoid the truly tragic position which has put a number of third countries, friends of the european union, in difficulty, starting with mexico, which had made a very strong commitment to defending a compromise position which was perfectly acceptable. we must therefore amend our motion for a resolution today to condemn the council very strongly and ask it, just as strongly, to entrust this matter to mr solana, exclusively.
- (it) mr president, as the rapporteur has pointed out, the european commission considers that, in the action plan for the fight against drugs for the period 1995-99, neither the normative instruments nor the programmes have been sufficiently evaluated. how can we then determine the extent to which the objectives set have been achieved? since we are talking about the fight against drugs, i would point out that the commission's communication is not on the agenda of the court of auditors or even of olaf, but of this parliament. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, you are about to reaffirm the strategies of the previous plan for the next five years. it's against all logic. i am sure you will all agree - on the right and on the left in this house - that when we discuss the subject of drugs, you are limited to small differences of opinion. no group has the courage to propose alternative strategies. in fact, on a question like this, the vast majority of you refuse to act as political leaders. a political leader, when faced with a problem, seeks to solve it. if the results are unsatisfactory or counterproductive, as is the case here, he changes policy. you refuse to consider a change in the prohibitionist drug policy because the political choices you impose are choices and moral convictions which concern the conscience of each individual. in short, you are preventing a real debate on this issue, a scientific, secular debate, by choosing an ethical approach that is frustrating, impotent and destructive. you're trying to explain this failure by the lack of financial resources. but how much would it cost to eradicate drug trafficking, which, according to the united nations, accounts for 8 percent of world trade? you refuse to analyse the cost-effectiveness ratio because that would lead you to admit that your policy has allowed crime to have a monopoly on the production and trade of certain substances. i'm not surprised. during this century, such foolish and incomprehensible things as nazism, fascism, and communism have succeeded in gaining ground. the prohibitionism of drugs - an ethical, inhuman and anti-scientific madness - still holds.
- (it) mr president, i shall also try to summarize in my speech the views of the italian members mr costa and mr nisticò. they were among those who had registered for the debate, but as it was postponed they are not present. we, the italian delegation, would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs giannakou-koutsikou, on her excellent work. as several colleagues have pointed out, this is a difficult balance to achieve, and yet it has been achieved. this balance has been difficult to achieve because member states' experiences and policies are not similar. at the same time, the relationship between the union as a whole and the action of individual states, between the principle of subsidiarity and the need, rightly emphasized, for the union to have a common policy on this phenomenon which concerns our present but also our future, is also different. i am convinced of this from the point of view of values, and i fully share mr coelho's ideas, which i will not repeat. i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i refuse to believe that politics should lay down its arms on this issue. this report is excellent, i said. it rightly emphasizes the two sides of the question - the combined action of reducing demand and reducing supply. it is also quite frank, with all due respect to mrs giannakou-koutsikou, when it criticises the shortcomings of the commission's proposal, both at the financial and economic level - one cannot claim the importance of a battle and then not be consistent in financial terms - and at the level of political lukewarmness, so to speak, of the initiatives which the states have not yet taken. i therefore think that we should support the excellent idea of convening an inter-pillar council. in conclusion, i would like to stress only two points which seem particularly important to us, given our experience in italy. firstly, it is important to support basic scientific research in order to increase our knowledge of the phenomenon and, if possible, to predict what the famous drugs of the future will be, and above all to know the devastating power of synthetic drugs. secondly, it is important to involve the main actors in our actions, to involve those on the front line, those who deal with the problem day by day, those who assist addicts, namely the therapeutic communities. they need encouragement and support. mrs giannakou-koutsikou gladly accepted this request from the italian delegation. i think that when we deal with this subject again in the future, we should return to this aspect: those who are now managing the situation of drug addicts and helping them.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have some good news for the house, which will certainly welcome it as such. yesterday's newspapers, published today by the press magazines throughout italy, write that the gene for a longer life has been discovered, that our life span could be extended by a third - 35 percent to be precise. so if i now hope to live to be 90, this gene will allow me to live to be 130. you may say: but what does this story have to do with the debate on the forgery of travel documents? i'll get back to you. you are aware that i am a member of the party of retired persons and that i was elected to the european parliament on that list. i am constantly asked by pensioners what is going on in brussels. they know that in brussels - and especially in the 15 member states of the union - these pensioners are being thrown into the boiling water, as many as possible. it is not a new practice and today, with this new information, i think we will boil the pot a little more so that we can cook even more, if possible all together. they know that this is a serious damage they are forced to suffer, but, as elderly people, they are also the privileged victims of the criminal acts perpetrated, alas, throughout the european community by the many people who clandestinely cross the union's borders and who, once they enter the community, commit criminal acts. i would therefore like to say to our friends and colleagues, mrs gebhardt and mr schulz, first of all, that the amendments tabled by mr newton dunn do not negate the need to combat crime and human trafficking, but on the contrary, they reinforce it. i would add that we are happy to welcome immigrants who are not illegal immigrants, who are not criminals, who are not committing crimes, who are decent people with proper travel documents. that is why we support this provision - even if it reminds us of arsène lupin - but a european electronic identity card would be much more appropriate, a similar identity card in all the member states. in particular, it would be much more sensible to strengthen border controls at the borders of the european union, at the borders of spain, greece, italy and eastern europe. why spend money and effort on other things? we must prevent so many illegal immigrants from entering the union and then committing crimes. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, this is an additional amendment which, in our view, better defines the role and contribution of the therapeutic communities. i read the text for my colleagues: 'considers that rehabilitation of drug addicts, like other measures, is a fundamental pillar in the fight against drugs, since the intervention is at the level of demand; the european commission has also launched a new initiative, 'action for the rehabilitation of drug addicts', which aims to promote the rehabilitation of drug users in the eu.
- (it) mr president, after considering the amendment tabled by our colleague mr lisi of the european people's party, elected on the forza italia lists, i am very pleased to explain my vote in favour of this provision. therapeutic communities are of course of great importance. as for my motives as a representative of the retired, i must say that it is rare to see a retired person using drugs, unfortunately, this sad plague causes the premature death of many young people. i would like to stress that this is a positive provision. but we must be the first to set an example for the young, because only by setting examples that bring them closer to the family, by following the sound principles of the past, will we be able to combat this great scourge of our century.
- (it) mr president, i should like to speak on the giannakou-koutsikou report, to remind you that we pointed out yesterday to the presidency that the opening of this debate would not be in accordance with rule 115 of the rules of procedure. i am simply saying this to put it in the minutes. the presidency does not know what to do with this regulation. i hope that order will be restored, at least in the future. if not, then tell us clearly that the work of this parliament is governed by the presidency and not by the rules of procedure. the fact remains that the debate and vote were held in contravention of rule 115. the last french version was distributed at 9.52 p.m. on wednesday and we opened the debate well before the 24 hours provided for in the rules of procedure had expired.
- (it) mr president, i did not ask a question and i did not expect an answer. i merely pointed out that rule 115 of the rules of procedure had not been observed. i don't need any answers because the fact has already happened, it's no longer possible to avoid it. you have violated rule 115 of the rules of procedure, period.
- madam president, this is a procedural motion on the agenda. you have announced, and i thank you for that, the result, and therefore the reconstitution, of the technical group following the court's judgment. it is, moreover, already quite embarrassing, i think, that a democratic institution should have to be taught by a court what civil law, parliamentary law and voters' law are. and i thank you for that communication, madam president. i spoke because, as you know, following the dissolution of the technical group, we radicals had announced that we would no longer take part in the votes in this house. based on the information you've given us, the radicals will also resume their voting activities. but let me say, madam president, that if the abstention stops, our fight for the amendment of the rules of procedure on which we tabled a motion, which was supported by 80 members, to establish a genuine mixed group of non-attached members, will not stop. i thank the members who supported this approach to the dignity of every member of parliament without discrimination. i also want to thank president barón crespo, who invited us to join his group, and our colleague mr cohn-bendit, and i say this from the bottom of my heart. but that was not the problem we had posed. while thanking him, i want to say that we will continue the fight for non-discrimination against members, and i hope that soon the mixed group of non-attached members will finally exist on an equal footing with all the others and that there will never again be, as has been the case for the last twenty years, discrimination against non-attached members, who are the real pariahs of this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, i am speaking, of course, on behalf of the italian radicals. the council is preparing to shamefully exclude the european parliament from the intergovernmental conference, as we believe. the european parliament is also calling for the establishment of a european union, and for the european parliament to be given the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. ladies and gentlemen of the council and the commission, today the union does not respect the minimum parameters of democracy and the rule of law. that is why it seems difficult for us, the radical european federalists, supporters of the united states of europe as envisaged by altiero spinelli, to regard the small, very small reforms on the agenda as real progress. we are utopians and you are realists, so realists that the berlin wall fell 10 years ago and we have still not been able to enlarge to the east. we have also failed to intervene to prevent genocides in bosnia and kosovo. the reason is that the strength of the union increasingly resembles the strength of a bureaucratic power, an invasive bureaucracy that wants to take care of everything, feeding the ideological illusion that law and the parliamentary process are obstacles that unnecessarily slow down reforms. i believe that parliament should not simply ask to be associated with the work of the conference and the drafting of the charter of fundamental rights. it must demand to be able to act as a real parliament and to be restored, at the intergovernmental conference, the right to decide autonomously where to meet and not be forced to work with its secretariat in three different places. this could be a first concrete step towards enabling this parliament to act as a real parliament.
- (it) mr president, i would like to say to this house that i am very concerned and - let me say this - somewhat pessimistic about the developments that are to take place at the next summit. parliament has been very clear: it wants some major institutional reforms to be implemented before enlargement if we do not want europe to be limited to a large free trade area, if we do not want a europe limited by an outdated regulation and internal rules, characterized by a very high level of indecision. parliament also stated that it was not enough to take decisions on qualified majority voting and the composition of the commission to give europe a new impetus and strength. he says that other ways must be followed, that for example a charter of fundamental rights must be drawn up and some of the things that were to strengthen the great european movement as a whole must be done. it is important to respect the nations, their feelings, their history, their traditions - which i consider very important. i think, however, that - because we are not blind - prudence and realism may, on the contrary, prevail over boldness and courage at the next summit. at this historic moment, when we either have the courage to take a big step forward or risk being condemned to a long period of impotence, i believe that audacity and courage matter more than realism. i therefore call on all those who believe in these objectives - and president prodi, who is here before us, has said it more than once and i know he believes it - to show determination and resolve. i call on the european parliament to come together immediately after the helsinki conclusions - if, as i fear, the conclusions are too little a step forward - and to take up with great openness and great courage all the decisions it wants to take, declaring now and feeling, as at other moments in european history, that parliament has great possibilities and a great duty to fulfil.
- (it) mr president, i wanted to speak to tell you first of all that i was surprised by the remarks of the president-in-office of the council when she spoke of the intergovernmental conference. mrs halonen did not even mention the european parliament's resolution of 18 november and the proposals it contains for the agenda of the conference. it is a serious and well-motivated proposal, not a leak, a wishful thinking of utopians. i do not think that this is the right way to behave in the face of a major decision by parliament. we already know everything about the three relics of amsterdam: we just have to take the decisions that we were not able to take at the previous conference. it would take a whole year just to do that. let me say that it's ridiculous to support that. the council, the european parliament and the commission must be aware that the european union is not a single institution, but a single institution, and that the european parliament must be aware of the fact that the european union is not a single institution. mr prodi, i do not understand what preparatory work should be done outside the intergovernmental conference, which you mentioned. it seems that you are entrusting to this strange institution some of the subjects proposed here by the commission on 10 november. i hope that you will uphold all the commission's proposals concerning the agenda and the method to be followed for the conference and thus contribute to the positive conclusion of the helsinki council.
- (it) mr president, i think that president prodi was right to say in his speech - and we can fully agree - that the main, essential element of helsinki must be enlargement. parliament has long pointed out the inadequacy of the approach taken by the commission or the council to enlargement. i think that this was a strategic and political mistake, the consequences of which have fortunately been limited by the commission's repentance. it is also sad to think that perhaps it was only the war that was waged on europe's doorstep that led us to adopt a new strategy. it is right to include all the candidate countries in the negotiations, but there is no doubt that we will have to differentiate between them, since the levels of adaptation to europe vary enormously from one candidate country to another. it is true that it seems difficult to move forward the dates of accession, although it would be useful, very useful in stimulating public opinion in the countries concerned. we are seeing a growing risk that negotiations which are too long could lead to a drop in enthusiasm, both in the member states and in the applicant countries. this is what recent polls in poland show and what i myself have seen in this country from which i returned yesterday. we would be missing an historic opportunity, to use mr prodi's words again. i am firmly convinced that the accession of a new member state must be the result of a long-standing consensus between political forces, but above all it must be approved by the majority of the populations concerned. we must therefore - and i urge parliament to do so - pay particular attention to information campaigns so that support for the european idea in these countries does not wane. i believe that the phare programme can be the appropriate instrument in this respect and i therefore believe that it must be strengthened in this respect.
- (it) mr president, one thing is very clear: the presentation of this report shows that public opinion has become more aware of the importance of civil and human rights issues. let us take the last few months and years, for example, of the amsterdam treaty, article 6, the confirmation of the weight and role of the european union in relation to the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, or the establishment of the international criminal court. let us also take the need we all feel to give more force to article 7 of the un charter so that it can guarantee respect for human rights, by withholding the exercise of any humanitarian interference from logic that is not linked to respect for these rights alone. all of this shows that great progress has been made. however, 50 years after the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights, we know that there are no rights that are won once and for all. i am thinking of tibet, burma, timor and other asian countries where the exploitation of women and children is still a serious problem. i am thinking of kosovo, chechnya or africa, this too often distant and forgotten continent. i think of the 790 million people in the world who are hungry or the 300 million children who are forced to work. i am also thinking of the 1,625 executions last year in the 72 countries which still have the death penalty. finally, i am thinking of the fate of the kurdish leader öcalan, whose life we must all try to save. the practice of the death penalty is one of the most serious violations of the dignity and right to life of every individual, a violation which deeply affects us and which we want to put an end to by recalling, for example, that the process of enlargement of the union is not only a factor of peace and security for the continent but also the way forward to ensure that the candidate countries abandon such a barbaric practice. the road will be long and winding, we know that. i would like to see this demonstrated by the lack of discussion in the un on the european union's resolution on the moratorium on capital punishment. it was a serious and painful stopgap measure and it is up to us, parliament and the commission, not to let go of this commitment, but to take it on with renewed vigour. mr president, in the united states a young italian-american man who has been sentenced to death in recent weeks continues to claim his innocence. this is one of the many lives we have to save. i take this opportunity today to ask you, the president of parliament, the presidency of the council and the commission, to take urgent action and to call on the united states to suspend the execution of derek rocco barnabei. the fight against the death penalty is a civil war which must be fought whenever necessary and in every way possible.
- (it) mr president, i have demonstrated several times in favour of öcalan, but the debate on turkey must not be focused solely on the death sentence for president öcalan, because the whole of turkey is undemocratic. turkey does not respect human rights. as a member of the committee on human rights of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, i have visited turkey and therefore feel that i can speak with full knowledge of the facts. it is not just the öcalan affair that makes me say that turkey's candidacy is still premature. öcalan was handed over to the turkish authorities almost by the d'alema government - a negative point for italy - but on the other hand, it was precisely on the basis of the italian penal code that turkey amended article 155 of its penal code which allowed öcalan to be convicted, article 155 of the turkish penal code inspired by article 241 of the italian penal code. the italian government's position on this matter did not surprise me at all. however, turkey continues to apply the death penalty. it may be difficult to change the mentality of the police, to change the situation in prisons, but it is enough to have a legislative act, a parliamentary vote to abolish the death penalty, as all the countries of the european union have done. how can we maintain the death penalty and at the same time ask to join the european union? i'm still shocked by that. i am even more surprised that there is talk of granting this status to a country which has not yet abolished the death penalty. that is also why i am in favour of postponing the vote.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks after the debate on the extension of the socrates programme to turkish youth, this parliament is once again returning to the controversial issue of relations between the european union and turkey. this time, the european union's intervention is not aimed at supporting culture but at supporting the social and economic development of this mediterranean country. for the umpteenth time, everyone is tacitly asking the following question: can the european union, or should it, in any way support a state that is geographically close, or even contiguous, to a state bordering the sea that bathes the coasts of southern europe, even if that state is far from respecting human rights? we regret that since 1996, when the aegean crisis led the european community to block the agreement on a customs union with turkey, no progress has been made towards ensuring full respect for civil rights and the protection of minorities. the turkish government has made some tentative attempts in this respect in recent years, but the recent death sentence on the kurdish leader öcalan has destroyed any possibility of political rapprochement between turkey and the union. but as we have already said in this house, the democratic growth of a community also requires its economic and social development. refusing the financial aid proposed by the commission for the next three years and for the development of the customs union would be tantamount to fuelling a vicious spiral in turkey with unimaginable consequences, especially at this tragic moment when this mediterranean country is on its knees because of a dramatic earthquake. in conclusion, a balanced accession to cooperation with turkey seems more reasonable to the italian delegation of the national alliance, which supports the idea of subjecting this country to concrete and tangible alignment actions, alignment with the western european democracies. democracy comes at a price, mr president: to ask turkey to pay this price is not an act of weakness on the part of europe, but an act of great responsibility.
- (it) mr president, i also thank mr morillon because the turkish issue is not an easy one. we've been talking about it a lot lately. today we are considering two proposals for regulations to develop the customs union and to provide for measures to improve economic and social development in turkey. we are doing this on the eve of the european council in helsinki. at this summit we will decide on the possibility of turkey joining the european union. we are considering these proposals at a time when the turkish court of cassation has confirmed the death sentence of abdullah öcalan, which was followed by the request for a stay by the european court of human rights and a statement by the turkish authorities, a statement by prime minister ecevit, who said that he would prefer to follow the judicial process, including the appeal by the defence lawyers, before making known the government's position and before the matter was submitted to parliament. so the debate on this issue is not over and it is up to us again to choose the strategy to follow. it seems to me that parliament has decided to invest in the democratic development of this country. but the alternative before us is not between a position of total closure - which is already taking place today - and uncritical acceptance of events. i would remind all members of parliament's amendment no 11, which makes us responsible for the development of this cooperation. however, in the more general context, as many colleagues have pointed out and mr swoboda said a moment ago, the fate of mr öcalan remains a crucial question today.
- (it) president prodi told us today that, in order to avoid exacerbating turkey's behaviour, its application for membership of the union will be legitimised in helsinki. this is a great step forward, but it is a pity that turkey has not made as much progress. we are all outraged by the confirmation of the death sentence against president öcalan, and we are all calling in unison for a gesture from the turkish government, namely a moratorium on the death penalty. it is therefore likely that, despite the government's decision to refuse to comply with the strasbourg court's request, the judgment will be set aside. we are asking a lot, but is that enough to say that turkey meets the conditions for membership of the union? no, i'm not going. human rights are violated daily in turkey, where thousands of political prisoners are held and where the freedoms of trade unions, opinion, religion and minorities are suppressed. in the face of an extraordinary event and unilateral peace actions such as the choice of the pkk, which decided to abandon the armed struggle and declare a ceasefire, in the face of the choice of many pkk leaders, who went to the turkish authorities to confirm the choice they had made, namely to want to negotiate peace, the turkish government responded in a negative and contemptuous way. some young kurdish refugees who were visiting the european parliament asked us: will you help us to return home? our villages have been destroyed, will you help us rebuild them? i appreciate the morillon report and welcome its contents, but i think that a clear message must be sent and that this choice should be postponed until the turkish government confirms the abolition of the death penalty and opens negotiations with a view to resolving the kurdish problem. there is no question of adopting a policy of "double standards" when it comes to the right to life.
- (it) mr president, the euro has given rise to high expectations but also to many problems, particularly for the companies in padania, which are oppressed by an incredibly greedy tax system and have lost their competitiveness because of the change in the exchange rate. furthermore, the investor who decided to invest in dollars or pounds sterling certainly benefited much more from his choice than the one who invested in euros. one last thing: today the currencies of the different countries can be considered as sub-currencies of the euro, but the same cannot be said for banks. at present, even for small sums, the commissions payable for purchasing lire, belgian francs or french francs, and vice versa, are much higher than those for purchasing dollars or pounds sterling. i think we need to do something about that too.
- (it) madam president, the new proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery and aquaculture products contains some new and interesting points for further consideration which i am unfortunately not in a position to discuss in this chamber. i represent the largest island in the mediterranean - sicily - and i am president of the province of catania, which has a large number of fishermen. so my everyday experiences could be useful here. but today i would like to make some constructive criticisms, hoping that they will help to improve the proposal for a regulation in question. as far as consumer information is concerned, i fully agree with the commission's proposal for mandatory labelling indicating the name of the species, the method of capture and the area of capture. however, in order to make consumers more responsible and to increase market transparency, other data such as the legal minimum size, which respect fisheries resources, should be included on the labelling. as far as producer organizations are concerned, it is true that they must be given greater responsibility both for the organization of the market and for the rational management of resources. it would, however, be appropriate - and i would stress the relevance of amendment no 67 tabled by my group - to allow member states to grant additional aid to producer organisations which develop measures to improve the value of the species caught and to adjust supply to demand through structural measures carried out by the fifg. since, according to the data provided by the commission - and this has already been said this morning - 60% of fishery products consumed in the european union come from imports, substantial and thorough support should be given to aquaculture. this sector represents a significant economic opportunity for maritime communities. often, we don't have access to it because we don't know it or don't know it enough. finally, i would like to thank mrs fraga estévez for supporting the amendments tabled by the uen group in the committee on fisheries.
- (it) madam president, my question concerns the order of business. i would like to make a brief historical reminder. as regards the agenda, i would like to stress that this is a matter of real urgency. that is my answer to the member who tabled a procedural motion because if a matter is not urgent after 55 years, it means that in the meantime we are all dead. i would like to make another historical reminder to our colleague, the representative of greek culture. i would like to remind you of this: when prince victor emmanuel was expelled and exiled from his native country, he was four years old. so it seems unlikely to me that he could have invaded greece. he 's invaded the gardens of his own house . i would therefore ask my colleagues - in reference to culture - to remember the history of our peoples and of europe. it is important to focus on the issue without political and ideological prejudices, which are so strong that they prevent us from assessing human rights calmly. mr tannock's request concerns human rights and a few days ago we commemorated the 50th anniversary of human rights in europe. this request is obviously relevant, especially at this time of the session, which marks the end of a century of war and, hopefully, the beginning of a millennium of peace.
- (it) mr president, it would be very unfortunate if the failure of seattle meant that the processes of trade integration at world level were to stop or slow down. it would be unfortunate for the producers and workers in the most vulnerable countries and not, as we have heard, for the multinationals who would, in any case, find, as they have always done, ways of increasing industrial and commercial penetration all over the world. this would be unfortunate for consumers in european countries, especially the most vulnerable consumers whose expectations would be frustrated because they would not have a wide choice of products from all over the world at lower prices than those on national markets. it would be bad for the environment if poor countries, unable to sell their products to european and american markets, insisted on exploiting natural resources. the failure of seattle was not caused, commissioner, by the inadequacy of the wto or by the us election campaign - which nevertheless contributed to it. seattle is a failure because the political will of the major countries was to slow down, not speed up, international trade. europe, commissioner, is not to blame for this either. it has in fact loaded the agenda with issues that have nothing to do with international trade by providing an excuse for those who have an interest in pressing for the process of integration of world markets to slow down. this interest certainly had nothing to do, i repeat, with european consumers or indian or pakistani workers. mr president, commissioner, i think that europe - with its centuries-old tradition of market economy, of free trade and economic freedom, which is a freedom without epithet - must affirm that market integration and free trade is an objective in itself, which we must achieve for ourselves and for all other countries. as for the other questions, let the competent bodies take care of them!
- (it) mr president, as we have already said, the outcome of seattle was not particularly positive. the only real actors were the protesters, whose demands can be shared. but they wrongly thought that the failure of the summit could in itself represent a victory, a solution to the serious problems at stake. in reality, the problems and contradictions of the world economy have not disappeared, they are present and remain unresolved: the doubts about gmos, the exploitation of child labour, the negative social repercussions of a process of globalization that is wild and unregulated. but there is more: these objections may have served as a pretext for the official protagonists of the summit - those who were rightfully at the table - not to take full political responsibility for the negotiations, which are very difficult but very necessary, on social rights and the protection of the health of our citizens, negotiations which can no longer wait. the process is complex, but europe must rise to the challenges it faces. the wto negotiations must be resumed. europe must be clearly aware of the role it must play, it must be balanced and responsible, in order to achieve a humane globalisation, open and ready to accept changes and accelerations in the economy, but also a globalisation capable of guaranteeing the right to work and the protection of the environment and health. finally, europe must not forget to defend our specificities, not only economic but also cultural and social, because the globalisation of uniformity, levelling and exploitation must not be part of the european development model.
- (it) mr president, commissioner, i think we should congratulate the rapporteur, mrs pack, on the work she has done in the second phase of the socrates programme. i would also like to thank the entire delegation of the european parliament, which, through patience and determination, has obtained an increase in the financial allocation of some eur 300 million. these are valuable resources for our young people, and they give much hope in terms of the educational and training potential of this programme. i would like to take this opportunity to remind the house that the success of socrates depends mainly on the publicity given to it in the member states and the speed with which it is selected. many young europeans often complain about the difficulties they face in obtaining timely information on the programmes that concern them. better dissemination of information and a reduction in bureaucratic formalities will certainly guarantee equal opportunities and more democratic access to the programme. young people, especially the most disadvantaged, will thus be able to see socrates as an opportunity for integration, cultural enrichment and vocational training, but also and above all as an opportunity to live a personal experience, a life experience, in order to acquire the flexibility and openness necessary to face the challenges of the world of work successfully. in this sense, socrates represents a major investment in the youth of europe.
- (it) mr president, this directive is the first time that the european commission has taken an initiative in response to a request from parliament under its indirect legislative initiative power enshrined in the maastricht treaty. this is an important fact for the interinstitutional balance because it proves that when parliament asks the commission to act on a reasoned request in accordance with the procedures provided for in the treaty, it can find an attentive and available interlocutor. this is in line with the demands made by parliament - and by the group of the european people's party in particular - on the occasion of the inauguration of the president of the commission, mr romano prodi. i believe that mr rothley's report must be adopted as a whole because it represents an excellent compromise, the synthesis of a whole series of stimulating and innovative concepts, the result of the collaboration of the various institutional forces. i should like to speak, for example, about amendment no 4, which seeks to delete recital 26. it is clear that as soon as a legal person, in compliance with an obligation, compensates a party, it cannot be denied the right to subrogate the injured party vis-à-vis the compensation body. i should also like to draw attention to amendment no 11. there is still the problem of claims in a third country. i hope that a solution will be found which preserves the approach taken by parliament, which wants to extend the scope of the directive to these cases, and which will allay the council's concerns about respect for the principles of private international law. we all have to look at this problem, especially the rapporteur, mr rothley, and the chairman of the committee, mrs palacio. a future legislative initiative could once again affect the insurance sector, in particular in the sense of some harmonisation of the standards for compensation for personal injury, which still causes so many disparities and injustices within the european union. the spanish example could be used as a basis for work, with the necessary adaptations. i urge everyone to think carefully about this.
- (it) mr president, it is indisputable that the regulation under consideration is of paramount importance. the european union is setting out the methods and timetable for the phasing out of ozone-depleting substances, and i assure you that i am not underestimating the danger of the present situation. the call for a shorter deadline, adopted by parliament at first reading, was broadly supported by the council. nevertheless, mrs hulthén's report proposes again the amendments which were not accepted, making indiscriminate progress on the deadlines for the prohibitions on the production, marketing and use of these substances. overall, this is a welcome direction, or rather a welcome intention, in the continuation of the montreal protocol. however, it does not take into account certain facts. first, the other signatories to the protocol, including the united states, envisage a longer transition period before stopping production of hydrochlorofluorocarbons. secondly, they are, in the present state of knowledge, the only real alternative in the field of fire-fighting agents to halons, the number one enemy of the ozone layer, which are still widely used in developing countries. i am not convinced either by the rigidity we have tried to maintain in the case of methyl bromide. it is a pity that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has not tried to find a reasonable and realistic compromise. it now seems that, in a certain way, the statement of principle, even symbolically, is more important than the concrete result. the european union must be at the forefront, as was said again this evening, but when it comes to protecting the stratospheric ozone layer, the results are not measured by the progress made in europe but by a general framework. for all these reasons, the council's common position certainly seems more balanced, even if it is not entirely satisfactory.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my disappointment and bitterness. i think i am interpreting the sentiments of other members who have just arrived in this house. at second reading, these new members are unable to make any contribution to improving the content of the provisions which will then be adopted by parliament, which naturally causes deep frustration. this frustration is even deeper when, in the presence of new scientific evidence, as in the case of substances that attack the ozone layer, bureaucracy and emotionality, taking precedence over politics and science, do not make it possible to make new amendments admissible that are valid from a scientific point of view. that is why i ask all members to approve amendment no 34, which i have already tabled in committee with mr bowis and mr sacconi and which has been signed today by 32 members. the amendment we want to see adopted on the rigid and closed position of the rapporteur, mrs hulthén, and all those who blindly support her, calls for a small extension until 1 january 2004 of the ban on the marketing of hcfcs in firefighting systems. these substances have a very low ozone-depleting potential - 1200 times less than halons - and are much better tolerated by the environment than substances such as hfcs or pfcs which parliament unfortunately authorizes, despite the fact that they are more harmful because they have a high warming potential and remain in the atmosphere for six to seven thousand years. these conclusions are also those of internationally qualified scientific bodies such as the 1998 cairo conference, the parties to the montreal protocol, the 1999 ozone depletion panel and the uk department of the environment. the progressive ban on hcfcs called for in the amendment takes account, in addition to scientific reasons, of social reasons because many people are at risk of losing their jobs. that's why i'm asking for your support.
- (it) mr president of the commission, despite all the talk about transparency and openness that our nordic friends are fond of, i believe that the finnish presidency has succeeded in getting in the conclusions what the governments really want: to ensure firmly that the decisions and actions of the european union are not hindered in any way, not only by parliament but also by the commission. i am surprised at your satisfaction, mr prodi, because the commission's role is practically reduced to reporting on the most varied subjects and your institution is clearly kept out of decisions and initiatives, whether at the level of the igc or the cfsp. i am also very surprised that you are satisfied today that the general agenda has not been set, when you have been telling us since september about the importance of a comprehensive reform and your willingness to work with the council on this. i would like us to think carefully before we give parliament's opinion on the opening of the igc - which is the only miserable instrument we have. i would also like to see every effort made to convince the commission that it is important that it accepts a clear confrontation with the council and its members - including the italian, belgian and french members, whose interventions in this area have been, let us say, rather modest - to ensure that decisions on the future of the european union are no longer the responsibility of diplomats and national governments. in my view, pretending that everything is fine when the choice that has been made is resolutely in favour of enlargement without any deepening is really not the right attitude to adopt.
- (it) mr president, it is good that the european union is seeking to expand to other countries in order to strengthen the development of democracy and improve their economic capacity to enable them to face the world market. we repeat it for the umpteenth time: we must protect the specific features of national production within this market, and thus fight against standardization and levelling which undeniably cause a loss in the specific crops and the quality of the products. but it is equally important that parliament firmly confirms that the accession of a new country must follow the effective application in that same country of the points already defined in amsterdam. in this connection, it should be noted that the problem of dangerous and obsolete nuclear power stations is still a long-standing one and that parliament has already expressed its views on this. it is equally clear that the completion of enlargement within the time limits set does not allow for the immediate elaboration of a common foreign policy or the definition of a draft economic policy, although this is urgent, in the light, among other things, of the recovery of the dollar against the euro and the disappointing results of seattle. we therefore regret that we have to adapt our old hopes to the present requirements. the only solution seems to be to involve in a new type of alliance, within the union and before the accession of new members, countries which share the same interest in a common foreign and defence policy, in common laws which guarantee the fight against crime, drugs and uncontrolled immigration; countries that want to reclaim their common right to fight human rights violations through active interventions against barbarism and massacres. we made a choice in helsinki, we decided to create the first nucleus of a european army. this is a step in the right direction and is supported by the european parliament, which hopes that this initiative will not be limited to this first step forward. we are proposing this idea in the hope that, finally, a debate will be opened on the possibility of concluding new agreements between the subjects who accept these objectives. this idea is distinct from the notion of a multi-speed europe, but should rather be seen as a two-tiered union. we propose a political level for the present member states which will choose to make a leap forward in this area, and a second level, an economic level, for the present 15 member states and the new member states. of course, in time, any state that requests it and meets the necessary criteria will have its place at the political level. however, if we do not act quickly today and if we think of enlargement by almost doubling the number of member states without carrying out thoughtful and proven institutional reforms - we do not have time to test them now - we will destroy the dream of a political europe which can respect identities, cultures and traditions while helping to create a new model of european citizenship. one thing is certain, for some, enlargement will not help to strengthen the union but to weaken it, it will destroy the hope that the founding fathers had for europe. finally, i would ask the commission to stop proposing measures for asparagus and lupins and to try to present us with a political and economic plan before it is ridiculed.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all a premise which i believe applies to all of us, but especially to our president, nicole fontaine. i think that the question of the status of two members of parliament in the intergovernmental conference is absolutely intolerable. we cannot accept that and our president should let it be known. this is an ngo status. do we want to be and continue to be an ngo? we would be, like the ngos, mere observers. i think it is time for parliament to say no to this state of affairs. more generally, i think we have a somewhat selective memory, colleagues. in amsterdam, the conference concluded that if we were to go beyond 20 members, we would have to make at least three reforms. we are no longer in that situation. we are in the case of 27 member states and more in the coming years, and so the reforms that are needed are much, much deeper. by accepting its conclusions, we, the council and ourselves, are complicit in a policy which will prove to be extremely serious in the coming years and which will immobilize the whole of the european union. our parliament cannot pretend not to understand, not to have a perception of this policy. we cannot, as some colleagues have said, think that we can engage in dialogue with the portuguese presidency when we already know that there is a majority in the council to refuse to enlarge the items on the agenda. we must use the only weapon we have and if mr barnier does not agree to call it the strike of life, let us call it resistance. in any case, we cannot postpone to june a battle which we must fight in january. our problem is the opinion we have to give before the start of the intergovernmental conference, that is, as early as january. of course, we can be pleased, we can pretend to hide our faces, to believe that we can convince the portuguese presidency which in turn can convince the other member states. we can tell each other stories. we have told each other many stories, but perhaps it is time for this parliament to wake up. as regards enlargement, i think we are making an insult that a number of countries are not aware of. we have extended the application to turkey, which is a good thing, even if we have done so, as always, too late, but we are abandoning states like albania, macedonia, croatia, when there is no reason to abandon them, since we have decided that each country will enter the union when it has made the necessary reforms. it is urgent that we open the application to these countries, just as it is urgent that we know that chechnya is not on the moon, but in a region of europe, in transcaucasia. it is urgent that europe has a policy worthy of the name in this region, otherwise we will see it, like the balkans over the last ten years, become a region of war, of destruction, as is already the case today in chechnya.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we have not reached agreement on the tax aspects - dissatisfaction is almost unanimous - and i think that the reasons for this are broadly shared. we have almost reached general agreement on chechnya and the need not to use double standards in our foreign policy but to reaffirm the basic principles of the european union. in addition, the eu's first intervention force is generally welcomed, although there are some who are against it. but this is generally the case, not only in the european parliament but also in national parliaments, when it comes to problems which concern military aspects, whether or not we are talking about a european army. the short remark i would like to make, however, concerns the most controversial point: the intergovernmental conference. the commission was not left out of the igc decision, nor was the role of parliament increased in relation to amsterdam, although progress was less than what the commission and the president of parliament said during the helsinki debate. some progress has been made and we can look at it with confidence: two representatives of parliament will be present at all negotiating sessions and will be able to speak at the beginning of each igc meeting. in addition, each such meeting will include interviews between the president of parliament and the heads of state or government. this is a small step forward, but i can assure you - and this is the important message i want to convey - that the commission and the president of parliament shared the same view and both wanted to extend the presence of parliament itself. that is the way forward, in my view. so the path we have taken is the right one, even if the pace is extremely slow compared to what we had set out to do. but we must not dwell only on the past. this is a warning, a lesson for what we have to do in the next six months. the igc agenda is not strictly limited to pre-defined topics, it is an opportunity for the commission and parliament to cooperate in order to get the reforms we want through this igc. before the helsinki conference, the agenda did not allow for any additions. the opening of the conference is not of great importance, but it exceeds our expectations and goes beyond what we were prepared to allow before this conference. but we must learn a lesson from this in order to work together in the coming months. we must cooperate very much because this openness will make it possible to bring about the reforms we need. i would like to conclude with a remark on enlargement. as president poettering said, it is true that history will tell us whether this decision is historic or not, but it is a great decision. this decision will require a very large change in the rules that guide us, the current reference points. we're going to have to change a lot of things in our lives, our culture, our budgets, our figures, everything we do. this decision has yet to be implemented. on the other hand, it is clear that this will take years and that we will have to carry out a rigorous analysis, because we have to reassure public opinion in the various candidate countries and confront it with our reality and compare carefully and seriously the legal, economic, political and transparency problems. in short, we have begun a work that will lead us to a historic conclusion. we have not yet reached that stage, but the decisions taken in helsinki will have a huge impact on the life of this parliament and the european commission. this is another fundamental point on which we will have to work to create a virtuous circle and so that the politics and the economy of the eu and the applicant countries can evolve and develop together in the future.
- (it) mr president, i should like to say that this debate was very short. we have heard the replies of the president of the council and the president of the commission, who have replied to the speakers who have spoken. i do not see why we should continue this debate. i do not think that parliament is serious about doing this. (applause) in my view, the replies of the president of the council and the president of the commission have closed the debate. i therefore ask you to remove me from the list of speakers. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, commissioner bolkestein, i am naturally pleased that the commission has dealt with these problems and that the three infringement procedures have now been initiated. we're all waiting for an answer. but on this subject i would ask you to consider the possibility of considering a link between the commission services responsible for transport and those responsible for competition in order to advance decisions affecting transport in europe. we must and we want to shift heavy vehicle traffic to rail. in this respect, the positive example of the award of the brenner motorway concession for investment in a brenner tunnel could perhaps be a lesson at european level. i would like to remind you briefly and emphasize that the concession for the brenner motorway should be awarded - but has not yet been - with the obligation, or even the promise, to transfer the funds for the motorway to the brenner tunnel, that is to say, to the railway. if the commission departments responsible for transport and those responsible for competition work together, i think that a major step could be taken towards a policy of shifting heavy goods traffic from road to rail.
commission. - as you know, colombia has been plagued for many years by civil war, kidnappings, violence and drug trafficking, all of which seriously jeopardise the rule of law. i am deeply concerned, as i am sure every member in this house is, about the recent murders, including that of a young spaniard who was working on a project funded by the european commission. it seems he was killed, along with a priest, by a paramilitary group. the commission has asked the colombian authorities to investigate the circumstances of this crime as a matter of priority. president pastrana is stepping up efforts to find a negotiated solution to a conflict which, as the honourable member has pointed out, is extremely complex. the colombian government is currently busy finalising the details of plan colombia. colombia will continue to need strong support from the international community. however, the specific areas for which colombia would like assistance, including financial assistance from the european union and others, have yet to be defined more precisely. the commission has already expressed its willingness to support a peace process in colombia under plan colombia, as it has done for several other central american countries in recent years. it goes without saying that the commission would take all necessary measures to ensure that the various parties comply with their commitments before community aid is actually provided. the commission is currently concentrating its aid on internally displaced persons, spending on average eur 7 to 8 million per year. it also provides financial support for a range of initiatives aimed at promoting human rights in the country. the commission shall bear the major part of the operating costs of the colombian representation of the united nations high commissioner for human rights; the commission has also just approved a multiannual programme of aid for human rights in the andean region, with a budget of some eur 11.5 million, which will benefit mainly colombia.
- (it) mr commissioner, thank you for your reply. i also very much appreciate the statement on the financing of a support plan for colombia, provided that the commitments made are respected. unfortunately, according to human rights watch, some high-ranking, recognizable and well-known military officials, who were responsible for military training and involved in various massacres, have not yet been removed from their posts, while the dramatic collusions between the military and paramilitary forces continue. i therefore think that what commissioner patten said is important: we must not turn a blind eye to such things, we must not be silent about them. i am also pleased to learn - and i admit that i know very little about this - that some projects, even important ones, are planned, projects concerning evacuees, humanitarian aid and human rights commissions. with a view to the peace negotiations, i wonder whether the commission can massively increase the aid it gives to the social movements in colombia and to the associations which defend human rights.
mr president, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the court has recently confirmed the following point: even if gambling is authorized by a member state, it is still free to restrict the provision of such games, taking into account public interest objectives such as controlling the desire to play such games, preventing fraud or crime and using the winnings obtained in the public interest. each member state may define the extent of the protection it provides in its territory in the field of gambling. the commission cannot therefore deplore the fact that only four gambling houses are authorized in italy, nor the fact that they are all located in the north of italy. indeed, there is no evidence that foreign companies are discriminated against in comparison with domestic companies.
- (it) mr commissioner, i think this problem is particularly important in this member state because the attitude adopted by the italian government is not fair, on the contrary, it clearly shows discrimination. the italian government has recently rejected the application of a clearly tourist-oriented municipality, taormina, to set up a gambling house. at the same time, he allowed the casino of venice to open a branch in mestre. does the commission not think that this is clearly discriminatory within the same member state? does it not think that this is forcing people in the centre and south of the country who want to visit such casinos to go to other member states to gamble - europe has hundreds of casinos - instead of going to the north of italy, which has no obvious appeal?
- (it) mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr bourlanges, who has done a commendable job all this time, not only on the budget but also, in my view, on two main problems we have to face. the first concerns kosovo. with kosovo, the commission objectively seems - and it is true - to be sending a big political message. this message is intended to strengthen europe's political position at international level, to make the world understand that there has indeed been a serious intervention by europe, by a europe which is not only economic. we all agreed with this political message, but we now see that the funds are not following. this is precisely the kind of behaviour i am criticising, because we cannot simply throw the responsibility for expenditure that should have been planned onto parliament. we disagree, neither i nor my group. i would stress this point so that tomorrow we are not held responsible for this, a political responsibility which must not be seen from the economic point of view alone. i would then like to return to the promise made to us not so long ago - it actually dates back to the beginning of the presentation of the budget - a promise concerning administrative reform, the so-called bat. perhaps we can find some funds to allocate to the various lines of credit in the future if we can get a fair reform going, to support the departments that provide enormous help, both in terms of staff and research. the reform must be immediate, it must follow the approval of this budget, so that we can proceed with proper programming. if that is the case, we can intervene, influence our economies and achieve one of our objectives as members of parliament: the economic recovery and development of our countries.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to send a message of appreciation to our rapporteur, a message of support and friendship for the work he has managed to do so far this afternoon. madam president-in-office of the council, you must know that this parliament, which was prepared to say that the intergovernmental conference should be revised and that we should ask for a lot of things, will probably welcome tomorrow the fact that you decided in helsinki to give us two observers instead of two representatives and that you want to limit yourself to the subjects which parliament had considered absolutely impossible to discuss. the same will be true of the budget, madam president. our rapporteur had the vision, the courage to bring us to the point where, for the first time, we were going to discuss in depth what we considered right. if you want to finance kosovo, if you want to respect the rather hasty commitments that the president of the commission has made to this region, well, give us the budgetary means to be serious and consistent and give us the possibility of revising the financial perspectives. in fact, you're giving us a little and letting go a little. you agree to give us some small instruments of flexibility, and this parliament will of course be ready tomorrow morning to throw itself off the scent, to abandon the path that had been traced and which was the right one, in order to go to a confrontation on principles with the council. you may also win in this area. it's sad for our institution because it shows once again that it doesn't have the word that in french also begins with "c". i'll say she lacks the courage to make that gesture and respect it to the end.
- (it) i thank the rapporteur, my friend mr valdivielso de cué, for his enormous work of mediation and reconciliation of the different - and legitimate - interpretations of the validity of the new economic instrument of cooperation with the new independent states and mongolia. it was a difficult task, but the rapporteur's competence and tenacity enable us to adopt this provision. i think that the new financial programme for the development of the newly independent states and mongolia, which replaces tacis, introduces more precise mechanisms than the previous ones. the partnership and competition between the partner countries for funding encourages them to be active and tends to enhance existing professional qualities and thus to create a ruling class based on the merit-based criterion. the need for constant monitoring of project implementation, as provided for in the draft, protects the european union from the blatant fraud attempts of the past and aims at the implementation of initiatives that are obvious and therefore verifiable. the choice of such visible initiatives satisfies the condition that it highlights the positive role of the european union vis-à-vis the ruins left by communism ten years ago and tests the ability of the western democratic model to replace the leadership of the past that has failed in its objectives. as expected, it will be necessary to assess the interventions in relation to the civil, economic and social situation of the various newly independent states and mongolia using two parameters: the resolution of the problem of poverty and social and economic exclusion, without privileges or hierarchy, and the assessment of the strategic civil, economic and social importance in order to bring the citizens of these countries closer to the european union. the european union and its member states must therefore intervene to establish a security framework between the newly independent states on the one hand and the european union and its member states on the other, in order to create better conditions for peace and stability. a key requirement that the european union must impose on the newly independent states is respect for civil rights, which alone can anchor democratic principles and cultural, religious, political and ethnic pluralism in order to improve the quality of life. the possibility of suspending intervention in the event of a crisis will undoubtedly encourage the newly independent states and mongolia to seek a negotiated solution to the conflicts, bringing them back to a normal political dialectic. i think that the european parliament should debate and adopt the new instrument which replaces the tacis programme, even though parliament is currently suspending the technological cooperation treaty with russia, the largest of these countries, because of the war in chechnya. this is not the only problem in russia, which is also going through a deep political, economic and social crisis and will soon elect a new president. it is a great country that is going through a difficult transition and which, in my opinion, should not be abandoned to its fate, nor isolated as a punishment. it is necessary to help, reassure and reassure the people through close political and economic relations, even if the former are dialectical and the latter competitive. the european union must pay close attention to russia, with caution, encouragement and, if necessary, opposition, but without presuming that relations will break down. on the contrary, relations must be intensified, particularly with a view to the development of a new legal and administrative apparatus that will cut the grass under the feet of any attempt at corruption. we have a duty to create the conditions for peace, cooperation, support, aid, partnership and the newly independent states, mongolia and russia in particular, must deserve our offer, respecting the objective conditions of defending the fundamental principles of citizens and governed communities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the tacis regulation to all the member states. i shall also be answering in a moment the problems with this regulation which members have raised - the two points they have raised in this debate and the points they have raised in the amendments. it is inevitable that our attention tonight should be focused on russia and on the people of grozny, who must live another night under the threat of bombing. it is inevitable that chechnya will be at the forefront of our concern during this debate. the last time i addressed parliament on 17 november, just before the osce summit in istanbul, i said that the european union's relations with russia were extremely tense. this tension continued to grow in the following weeks, to the point where the european council in helsinki decided to act. the message of last weekend's statement could not have been clearer. we understand and support the russian concern about terrorism and territorial integrity. we do not question that at all. we never did. this does not, however, justify the recent and current actions. we condemn the disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force against the chechen population. we condemn russia's failure to respect international humanitarian law. we condemn the lack of cooperation with international humanitarian officials. we also condemn the lack of meaningful dialogue with the elected leaders of chechnya and the unwillingness to accept external mediation, for example, from the osce. the commission has started to implement the operational conclusions of the european council with the presidency and the member states. first, we will work with the council to review the implementation of the common strategy towards russia. secondly, we have been asked to put forward proposals to suspend certain parts of the provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement. we're working on it. we have also been asked to adopt a zero tolerance strategy in the event of violations of existing trade agreements, such as the steel agreement with russia. i will tell mr paasilinna that if we are concerned about these issues, it should be noted that 40% of russian exports go to the european union, that 3% of eu exports go to russia, and that russia has a surplus of 10 billion euros with the european union. thirdly - and this brings me closer to the subject of today's debate - we must review the technical assistance we are providing to russia. i hope that mr valdivielso de cué, mr clegg and mr piétrasanta will support the points i am going to make. the european council invited the budgetary authority to consider allocating part of the tacis 2000 budget for russia to humanitarian assistance. in general, this could shift funds from traditional technical assistance to the immediate needs of the chechen population, including an element of reconstruction. but first, we must ensure that the necessary security conditions are met so that international aid agencies can carry out an effective delivery. the european council decided that the new commitments would be strictly limited to areas of direct interest to the european union and not directly supporting the russian government, including human rights, the rule of law, civil society and nuclear safety. in all, this could reduce the tacis programme for russia by two thirds. it would therefore rise from almost 120 million to almost 40 million euros. i don't like to make this list of measures. as i said in my last meeting with parliament, these measures will also have a negative impact on the european union - a point raised by two speakers in this debate. i really wish it were different. i hope that conditions will soon be created for our relations with russia to resume their normal course. i'm firmly committed to it. but that will only happen if the russians heed the message of the european council. the assault on the chechen population must stop. political dialogue must take the place of military action and the conditions for the delivery of humanitarian aid must be met. the russians need to change their policy. we can make our discontent known and exert pressure by firmly applying the economic, financial and political measures i have just announced. but in doing so, let us not forget, as mrs krehl has said and as i said at the beginning, that the tacis programme is not just about russia but a much wider region. the proposal for a regulation presented to parliament will benefit 13 countries and nearly 300 million people. it would be wrong if our efforts to make russia realize that it must pay the price for its behaviour were to lead to the many other countries being penalized, when they are dependent on the tacis programme and we have nothing to reproach them with. i hope therefore that parliament will give a favourable opinion on this new regulation. let me answer some of the points that have been raised in this debate and in previous discussions. the new regulation is intended to be flexible, designed to respond to changing situations. i hope he learns the main lessons of the past few years. it contains the views of the members of this parliament. your extremely valuable input has helped us to design the new regulation. i am glad that you acknowledge that this new programme contains innovations such as links with partnership and cooperation agreements, differentiation by region, concentration, not based on our experience - concentration, as mr clegg has said, on a limited number of multisectoral themes - greater use of investment finance and an incentive scheme to improve the quality of projects through a competition mechanism. a particularly important aspect is the emphasis on dialogue with the national authorities of the beneficiary countries in order to ensure that the national programmes best reflect our common interests. the council discussions have made good progress. many topics, including tendering and procurement procedures, were discussed at length. we take note of your proposal, which the council accepts, but the existing procedures should still be applied before the adoption of the harmonization of procedures. the commission can accept this, reluctantly, i must say, as the only practical way to ensure that the regulation is adopted in time. however, in view of the generally accepted need for simplification and harmonization of procedures at all levels, we hope that this transitional agreement will be short-lived. the commission will shortly present proposals to amend the external assistance chapter of the financial regulation in order to provide legal support for key elements of the new harmonised procedures. at this time - although when i was a member of the house of commons in the united kingdom a few years ago we considered it still early at this time - i do not think that members will want me to elaborate on absolutely all the points raised in previous discussions on the rules of procedure. i shall concentrate on one or two points which are particularly important. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. that is not our intention at all. we fully recognize the role of the budgetary authority. however, the proposed ceilings are intended to ensure the flexibility needed to develop actions in these areas while maintaining the main emphasis of tacis on structured cooperation and technical assistance to the countries concerned. we are aware that many members are concerned about the key role of ngos. it must be acknowledged that the capacity of ngos in the region is not yet as developed as we all would like. it is therefore unrealistic to think that they will be able to assume more responsibilities at this stage. in many countries there is not even a legal basis for their establishment. the priority now should therefore be to help countries develop the necessary regulatory structure. ngos in the tacis countries will of course still have the right to submit adequate funding projects under the european initiative for democracy and human rights. i fully agree that delegating responsibility for project management on the ground can make our assistance more effective. but the prerequisite for strengthening the role of eu delegations is to ensure that they have the necessary staff and other resources to assume these new responsibilities. this is something we need to put in the framework of the review of the management of external aid, which i announced earlier today. at the same time, we must avoid taking risks by delegating responsibilities to recipient countries whose authorities may not be equipped to handle them. this is probably the case in all tacis partner countries at present. i would like to thank parliament for this debate. the commission agrees with many of the ideas behind the amendments which parliament has tabled and which will be reflected in the text. for purely formal reasons i cannot accept the wording in many cases, but the commission can accept amendments nos 4, 5, 8, 22 and 32 in full, as well as parts of amendments nos 1, 14 and 19. i would like to make one final comment. after listening to the speeches this evening, most of the members of this house believe as i do that we have a historic responsibility to assume at the end of this century and the beginning of this century, which is to avoid the mistakes that have disfigured relations between europe and russia during this century, to try to develop a relationship and a strategic partnership with russia, which will lead to russia's membership of the european family. it depends on how both sides develop. we're on a two-way street. we deeply regret that russia's behaviour in the last few weeks and months in chechnya has so seriously damaged, and almost destroyed, our attempts to establish this kind of relationship. i very much hope that the council's decisions and the speeches made by this parliament today will convince russia that what it is doing in the north caucasus is foolish, in breach of the promises it has made to us and to the international community about its behaviour, and far below what one might expect of a great civilized nation. i hope that in the future we will have a relationship with russia which will allow us to resume a normal course.
the rapporteur. - (it) mr president, this recommendation invites parliament to give its assent to the council's proposal on technical harmonization in the motor vehicle sector, considering it a key factor in the development of the world market. the aim of the harmonization process is to achieve the highest level of safety and environmental protection and to improve quality, which benefits both industry and consumers. the origin of this recommendation is to be found in the agreement concluded in 1958 within the framework of the united nations economic commission for europe. this agreement was subsequently amended to a large extent and other non-european countries were able to join it. the european community is thus part of a modified agreement which now includes japan itself. however, for reasons related to the orientation of the certification system, but also to the procedure, the united states could not adopt a similar decision. to overcome these difficulties, a parallel agreement was negotiated to establish harmonized technical standards, but only by unanimity and without the signatories being required to mutually recognise certificates and authorizations. the european community thus plays an important role as an intermediary, since it is the signatory of both agreements. the rules laid down by the parallel agreement are similar to those of the eec agreement, but it provides for a specific decision-making procedure in the event that a draft regulation is not examined under the 1958 agreement. in any event, a corresponding directive, proposed by the commission and approved by parliament by the codecision procedure, remains necessary for the transposition of technical regulations into community legislation. this is how the role of parliament is ensured. the commission is expected to forward to parliament the draft regulations which are intended to be applied at world level. i would like to conclude by saying that the assent to this recommendation will enable the european community to fully adhere to the parallel agreement, confirming its leading position in harmonizing and enlarging markets.
mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal, but i will say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. this will give a decisive boost to the competitiveness of our automobile industry on the world stage, while improving safety and environmental conditions, in the interests of the consumer. as regards mr harbour's question, i would say that, as you know, it concerns state aid schemes, which are the responsibility of mr monti. i'll brief him on the questions you've asked here. as for mr lange, you are aware that any new community legislation adopted under the geneva process must be adopted by parliament either by assent, in accordance with the 1958 agreement, or by codecision, the parallel agreement. i'm open to any discussion you might have about that. i hope that we will start to talk, informally or in committee, to find the best formula.
- i'd like to inform you that a suspicious package was discovered this morning in the vicinity of the louise weiss building and that the french police, in collaboration with our security services, have banned access to the building and carried out a search which, fortunately, turned out to be negative.
- mr watson, i think your request is entirely legitimate and justified. we must ask our services to carry out an evacuation exercise as soon as possible, on a day when we are sitting in plenary. but let us wait perhaps two or three months until the temperature and climate allow us to do this exercise under the best conditions. i would also like to point out that the package discovered does not belong to mr dell'alba or any of his friends and that it is, of course, a piece of equipment of a photographer. our security services were aware of this when the object was discovered, but, plagued by uncertainty, they took this extraordinary step.
- i think, mr rübig, that your request should be carefully examined by our quaestors, who can then propose possible measures to the bureau and, if necessary, to the conference of presidents.
- thank you, mr poos. by your intervention you have indirectly answered mr watson and mr rübig.
- ladies and gentlemen, i have the honor to inform you that a delegation from the national people's congress of china has taken their seats in the official gallery. i welcome the delegation which is here to take part in the 16th meeting of the european parliament and the people's republic of china in strasbourg on 15 and 16 december. (applause) i would like to thank the delegation is led by ms li shu-zheng, vice-chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the national people's congress of the people's republic of china, and consists of five members of the national people's congress, accompanied by four senior officials of the foreign affairs department of the national people's congress. the european parliament and the chinese national people's congress began direct political dialogue in 1980, which has developed over the years to cover a wide range of issues. we hope that this dialogue will be deepened and that our cooperation with the people's republic of china will be strengthened. i hope that the 16th interparliamentary meeting will be a further step in our mutual understanding, that your meeting in the european parliament will be a positive one and i wish you a pleasant stay in strasbourg. adoption of the minutes - documents received: see minutes.
- mr. poettering, i'll be able to make this communication to you as soon as it's been transmitted to me. you were informed before i was. however, i shall pass on this information to you and to all the members as soon as i receive it.
- the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the fifth conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change. i give the floor to mrs hassi, representing the council.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate policy has been one of the key environmental issues during the finnish presidency. i think it's important to realize that climate policy is likely to be one of the biggest challenges facing the planet and humanity over the next century. in its resolution, the european parliament rightly notes that the commitments made so far are still insufficient to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees by the next century and that new commitments are needed to complement those already made. however, the achievement of the current objectives is already a colossal task. finland has been working hard to prepare for the fifth conference of the parties in bonn. the union was generally satisfied with the outcome of cop 5, which had made progress on a number of issues. in addition, we have agreed on an action programme which will, in my view, enable the decisions necessary for ratification of the kyoto protocol to be taken at the sixth conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change (cop 6) to be held in the hague next autumn. at community level, and in order to integrate climate policy into other areas of policy-making, finland has in particular implemented environmental strategies in the fields of energy, transport and agriculture. it should be borne in mind that these strategies are only the first step in a process which is hoped to be sustainable in order to implement and develop environmental strategies. one of the most important decisions taken this autumn was the commitment at the helsinki summit that the community and the member states would ratify the kyoto protocol by the rio+10 meeting in 2002 and that the community would take all the necessary steps to ratify it. finland also held an in-depth dialogue with representatives of ngos and the business community. in the long term, we believe that multiple links with climate policy is the best solution. although i have said that the decisions already taken will help to achieve the expected results of the sixth conference of the parties to be held next autumn, there is still much work to be done. it is very important for the union to build a bridge between us and the developing countries, to seek solutions which are equally justified in the eyes of these countries and which are win-win solutions, which benefit both development and the environment. for developing countries, the important issues are the creation of conditions for emission reporting, the development of their general capacity to act and the promotion of technology transfer. in this task, particular attention must be paid to the position of the poorest countries. much remains to be done in developing the rules governing the kyoto mechanisms. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the environment. the european union must make every effort over the next year to find solutions that are as environmentally and emission-reducing as possible and that can be supported on a large scale, so that agreement can be reached on the rules governing the kyoto mechanisms and on the rules governing compliance with the convention. in my view, it is important that nuclear energy cannot be accepted as a method of application in the context of cdn and joint implementation projects. the environment ministers meeting at cop 5 had a firm opinion on this matter. naturally, however, this is a real challenge in view of the current trend of greenhouse gas emissions, which are rising when they should be falling. within the union and the member states, further measures remain necessary. the introduction of an environmental tax is one of the key points in this connection. the commission's initiatives to set up a community action programme and the proposed proposal to develop an internal system for trading emission allowances are also steps in the right direction.
- thank you, mrs hassi. the commissioner has the floor.
- i would like to answer the question put by mr poettering at the beginning of the sitting: the european councils in cologne and tampere have set up a body to draw up a charter of fundamental rights. this body includes representatives of the european parliament, heads of state and government, national parliaments and the european commission. membership of the interparliamentary delegations: see minutes.
- several members have raised questions and problems to which both the council representative and the commissioner intend to respond.
counsel. - (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have followed this debate with great interest and i must say that i appreciate the level of knowledge that the european parliament is showing in this area. many meps illustrated the debate with problems such as floods, storms and other climate disasters, which indicate that climate change is already under way. i agree with all those speakers. i also agree with many speakers who have said that kyoto is only the first step. after the kyoto agreements, we must be able to commit to greater emission reductions in order to prevent rapid and dangerous global warming. two points are essential for the european union in this area. firstly, the measures taken by the union itself to reduce its own emissions, which is also a crucial issue for the international credibility of the european union. in this area, as many members have said, the union still has a lot of work to do. i would like to comment on the question of the energy tax. what mr wijkman said, if i remember correctly, is quite true: the quantity of fossil fuels is too large on a global scale for market mechanisms alone to limit their use. our consumption behaviour influences the climate and the energy tax, the co2 tax, is a way of making the price an eco-label. we all know how difficult it was to reach a decision on the energy tax at european union level, but the conclusions of the cologne summit, for example, acknowledge the importance of this issue. in my view, this issue must be taken very seriously in the work programme of the council of economic and financial ministers. the council's common position on the famous directive on strategic environmental impact assessment, which is a good instrument for assessing the environmental impact of various programmes and measures - and also of emissions - is a step forward, achieved at the meeting of the council of environment ministers on monday. secondly, we must make progress in the international negotiations. as i said in my preamble, the most important thing now is to build bridges to other actors. several speakers rightly stressed the need to cooperate with other actors besides the united states. that is absolutely true, but i would not portray the united states in such a dark light as might be shown by some of the speeches. i have a feeling that in the united states, too, the ways of thinking are changing. concern about climate change is a notable concern among the american public. it is also seen in the changing behaviour of the american corporate world and, in my own experience, i would say that it also influences the way politicians work. although we have no clear indication yet that the rules on the kyoto mechanisms and compliance with the convention will be good, it is still quite possible to have satisfactory arrangements in place within the timeframe. as to why the union does not ratify the kyoto protocol as soon as the sixth conference of the parties, i would say that this is not possible because we will not have a clear picture of the text ratified before the said conference. if we were to commit ourselves to ratification before the moment, it would weaken our negotiating position and our ability to impose the issues we hold dear in the negotiations. although i think ratification is very important in itself, i do not think it is possible yet. i think the european union has always led the way in this matter. at the moment, it is not as clear as it was in kyoto, for example, because we are in the middle of the work phase and are busy working out many technical details. this work is not publicly visible but it is absolutely essential.
commission - (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was most impressed by the arguments put forward by the representatives of the small islands at the bonn summit. the combined effects of climate change are threatening and have already threatened their respective countries in such a way that they know this is essential for their future and their survival. i was very impressed by the concern they expressed for the future and the eagerness with which they urged us to really put ideas into action. i also listened to an elderly man from another island, where i had the privilege of living for a short time. he said, "i think that ordinary men like us, who think about their children and grandchildren, have a greater perspective on the future than you politicians. you have to think about it. do not think only of the length of your term of office, and dare not look up and look ahead". it's also a warning. i do not want to be too optimistic, mr wijkman, and i hope i did not give the impression that i thought this would be an easy game. because this part is anything but easy. we have made climate change in accordance with an idea that is politically correct and that we find in words, in a document, at the top of the agenda, but unfortunately we can see that the trends are going in the wrong direction. that means we have to act and we have to act now, because the effects may not be seen for another 50 years, or even 100 years. i agree with a lot of what has been said here. the commission has already taken some important first steps in this area, but there is still a lot to be done. i think that if we want to be successful, we also have to give ourselves the tools and the tools that allow us to be effective. we will need more financial instruments: we must actually give the environment a value so that we can see alternatives develop. we must involve the various stakeholders in a much broader way. we will need the help and support of industry to tackle the problem and we will need the mobilisation of the respective citizens of all the member states if we are to have sufficient political power and support to take action. to answer the question about the ratification process: it is clear that the commission and the european union must continue to play a key role. however, i believe that ratification by the eu alone would be a second-hand alternative. i am saying that we must do our part to get the united states to ratify the protocol as well and that it would be best to do it together, as soon as possible in connection with cop6. i also think we must make it clear that we want to achieve a coordinated ratification by the eu. without this, we will not be able to clarify the division of tasks on which we have already agreed within the eu. we must therefore do this together in the eu and with all member states on board. we need to put more pressure on the national levels that all the member states will now develop, we need to show the way and take the lead more clearly and we need more power in the whole process. i hope that the documents we will be presenting on behalf of the commission early next year will provide this driving force in all the work to combat climate change. i would like to thank you for all the valuable and constructive comments and i can also say that i do not see how the commission could do otherwise than support the amendments and the progressive resolution which parliament has put forward.
- i have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 37 (2) of the rules of procedure. see minutes of the sitting. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today at 12 noon.
- the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in macao. i call mrs hassi on behalf of the council.
- (it) mr president, like the slaves of ancient rome, the africans on american plantations or the serfs in the ghetto, the inhabitants of macao change their masters without having been consulted, without having had a say in the matter. once again, the right of self-determination of peoples is being trampled underfoot, as it is in chechnya. i regret to hear president soares and others draw a parallel between east timor and macao. the comparison is completely unwarranted, since east timor will become independent and macau will be under communist dictatorship.
mr president, i refer to rule 142 and rule 180 of the rules of procedure. as president, you have the right to interpret the rules, but not to break them. but your decisions must be respected. i have not found any provision which allows the house to decide to derogate from its rules of procedure. you asked us to vote on the non-respect of deadlines, but this is a procedure which is not provided for in the rules.
- (it) mr president, i also asked to speak for the explanation of vote on the hulthén report. i don't think i heard you say that, but, anyway, she can answer me later. i voted in favour of this adaptation of the institutional aspects of the europe agreement between the communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of hungary, of the other part. this shows once again - and i would like to emphasize this - that before enlargement of the european union can take place, the relations, even political ones, between the member states must be strengthened. after this step, we can think about expanding them. we are even in a situation where we have to revise certain institutional clauses to take account of an enlargement which we have already made.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of mrs grossetête's report, as did many other members, because it is important to contribute by all means to the discovery of scientific cures for rare diseases, for which the pharmaceutical industry does not intervene. it goes without saying that it is equally important that the community be more involved in scientific research so that a cure for all diseases without distinction can be found. there are many diseases that affect mainly the elderly and the retired and that, unfortunately, cause millions of deaths worldwide. i'm thinking about bronchopneumonia and heart disease. we still need to increase scientific research in the field of treatment of any disease.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of the socrates programme. education of the citizens of the european union is extremely important. this programme - let me stress this - should enable all those who have completed compulsory education and, therefore, all those who are also working, to have access to education, which is important for the cultural development of everyone. i would also like to point out that the attitude of the states, which depends on the sensitivity of each individual and therefore on the culture of the people, has shown that the more educated a people is, the less wars there are abroad, civil wars, injustices in regions where culture has advanced.
- (it) mr president, i voted against the hulthén report. it is the european community that has the delicate task of choosing whether it is better to continue to make progress or to think about the care, the health and the environment of our great-great-great-great-grandchildren. i therefore believe that before any action is taken, we must ensure, by listening carefully to the scientists and technicians who are constantly evolving in the world of science, that certain substances should continue to be banned and that, on the basis of scientific research, any progress we make is really important. i mean, we have to understand that we are a little less fortunate than i think we think we are.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution and i am not opposed to the labelling of genetically modified food products. but i ask you whether it would not be more correct for the european union, the european parliament, to decide to ban the production and marketing of genetically modified products if they are dangerous or to allow them to circulate if they are not. the introduction of labelled products on the market is like putting the words 'night for health' on cigarette packs. this does not prevent anyone from smoking, for no importance is attached to what is written on the label.
- (it) madam president, i would like to draw the attention of the presidency to the increasingly difficult working conditions in the computer services of this parliament. for the past two weeks, computer operations and internet connections have been extremely slow. access to many internet sites is prohibited. this is directly attributable to the system chosen by the it department of this parliament, namely to place members of the european parliament under surveillance and to filter their access to the internet. as a result, it's been impossible to log in for two weeks. we are informed today that it will be impossible to access the internet via the european parliament's computers in brussels from 22 december to 4 january. meps will therefore be unable to work at all in their brussels offices from 22 december to 4 january. i think the presidency should quickly check the reasons behind this suspension. i think that such a suspension can only be imposed for extremely serious and insurmountable reasons. but i'm afraid this is just bureaucratic idiocy from the it department. since there is, unfortunately, no other official way of requesting a verification, i am addressing you directly here.
- (fi) that is precisely the council's view on this matter. the various cooperation programmes with the candidate countries are now an important component of the enlargement of the european union. the starting point is precisely the improvement of their economic situation and, in so doing, of the employment situation in these countries, so that people are no longer forced to emigrate for economic reasons.
- madam president-in-office of the council, do you not feel the doubt, because in addition to the arguments given by david martin, prohibitionism in the matter of migration is one of the causes of the influx and trafficking of labour which almost inevitably leads to crime?
counsel. - (fi) mr president, the gardaland project, approved in december 1997 by the board of governors of the european investment bank, was already mentioned during question time to the commission. the motivations and advantages of the project in question have already been explained in detail. in this respect, it is probably worth recalling that for all projects evaluated and prepared by the eib, respect for the environment is one of the basic conditions for approval of project financing, as was also the case for the gardaland project. as regards the transparency of documents relating to the gardaland project and other projects envisaged in the community, it is essential to understand that the eib is really a bank. the documents in its possession cannot therefore be accessed in the same way as those of the council bodies which prepare legislative texts, for example. in order to maintain the confidence of all parties, the eib may not make public any information on documents or data in its possession concerning lenders or any other party involved in the preparation or implementation of the bank's projects without the express permission of those parties. it should also be borne in mind that although the ministers appointed by the member states to the board of governors of the eib are usually the same as those who participate in the meetings of the council of ministers of economy and finance, this ecofin council is not empowered to make recommendations to the european investment bank regarding its lending policy or the related information policy. on 26 march 1997 the eib's board of governors adopted rules on the publication of documents, which were published on 9 august 1997 on page 13 of the official journal of the european communities (c 243). within the framework of these rules, the european investment bank practices the disclosure of documents and information, although the general aim must be to optimise the exchange of information and the principle of transparency, without however threatening professional secrecy. while the community grants a guarantee to the european investment bank in the european budget for the granting of certain loans, for example for projects in third countries, the council decided that the eib should send an annual statement to parliament and the council on the actions undertaken with the aid of eib loans.
- (it) madam president, if what you say is true, we have been particularly unlucky because, although we asked for these assessments, we have received no reply as we were told that this was confidential information. obviously, something's not right about what you're saying. we did not ask for information on the reasons why the eib had granted the loan, we simply wanted to know the general criteria justifying the loan and the assessments on the basis of which the project had been examined - a project which, moreover, concerns one of the richest areas of italy, characterized by a fragile environmental balance - and the loan granted. if you are being honest, these assessments should be public, whereas according to the eib they are not. so there is a slight contradiction between what you say and what is actually happening.
- mr. president, i wanted to know if this was a specific question, or a boat question.
- (it) mr president, the process of globalisation of our economy, which includes the completion of the single market, is made up of regional districts and energy centres which become international because they manage to form a network. to be fully realised, this process needs clear, simple and effective rules, which our businesses and our craft industries have not been able to take advantage of in a crucial sector such as commercial payments. in this sense, the council's position, presented at second reading, is still weak and, above all, it does not protect small and mediumsized enterprises and craft industries from the inefficiency of the public apparatus and the excessive power of certain large enterprises. the amendments tabled by parliament are intended to fill this serious gap and pursue the ambitious objective of creating a legislative system which, while avoiding unnecessary bureaucratic complications, allows the major productive centres of the union to express themselves in the best possible way on the internal market, which would facilitate their action on the world market. the most significant innovations we intend to introduce are: the careful examination of the consequences of late payment for perishable foodstuffs; the recognition of the right to demand reimbursement of costs resulting from the recovery of the credit; the reservation of title clause in favour of the seller; the assurance that an enforceable title can be obtained, as a rule, within 60 days of the date on which the creditor has brought an action; finally, greater transparency in relations between the contracting authority and the contracting entity and in subcontracting relations. this set of amendments can mark the beginning of a real cultural change in the present relationship between debtor and creditor. my last remark will be of a strictly political nature. at a time when there is so much talk about the role and future of the community institutions, i would like to point out that the credibility of a body such as parliament or the council is strictly linked to its ability to solve the problems that beset the daily lives of citizens or to intervene in a positive way.
- (it) madam president, yesterday i drew your attention, together with a number of colleagues, to the suspension for 13 days of access to the computer systems of members' offices. we were then warned, yesterday, that the brussels parliament would be completely inaccessible from 27 december to 2 january. i think that such a long suspension of it services is really excessive. i would therefore ask whether this inconvenience could not be overcome by conducting sectoral operations and thereby allowing members access to the building, even during the end-of-year celebrations.
- (it) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the colom i naval report and the budget report. the commission representative concluded by saying: 'it is a christmas present.' i hope and wish that next year too we will vote on the 2001 budget a few days before christmas, with an increase at least equivalent to that of this year's budget. so we hope that it becomes a tradition to receive a christmas gift like this.
- (it) mr president, i voted in favour of the murphy report. i think it is quite right that the european parliament is trying to avoid delays in the payment of commercial transactions. as a representative of the pensioners' party, i hope that one day parliament will also take an interest in the public administrations which have to pay pensions to the beneficiaries of the 15 member states. in italy, for example, it takes 10, 15, or even 20 years for an elderly person, even a 90-year-old, to receive what he is owed. i would not mind if the public administration in the 15 member states were given the same attention as individuals.
- (it) mr president, i am particularly pleased that the provisions on the labelling and identification of cattle have been adopted, but i would like to see people, human beings, labelled too, especially pensioners. i would like to know when they were born, how they were made because -- and i notice this a lot -- they're considered numbers. yes, the bureaucracy considers old people who apply for a pension to be numbers - i recall that i represent the party of pensioners and have observed this fact on many occasions - and that is why i would like to see the photographs of these citizens attached to the applications, so that they are labelled and treated at least in the same way as cattle.
mr rothley. - (de) i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer the question. i would like to stress first of all that the commission started to deal with the crossborder system of book prices in germany and austria long before the austrian company libro denounced the case in 1996. the proceedings were initiated in 1993 after german and austrian publishers had denounced these crossborder agreements to the commission. this was followed in 1994, 1995 and 1996 by denunciations by two german booksellers and the austrian federal chamber of labour, an organisation which also plays the role of consumer advocate. the commission has not yet completed its examination of the cases in question and therefore cannot anticipate what the eventual decision will be as a result of the proceedings currently under way. it is the duty of the commission not to discuss, except with the persons concerned, an individual case of competition still under consideration, but it can provide a response to the general aspects raised in the oral question, which i am happy to do before this house. national price systems for books may be based on national legislation or on agreements between companies, in this case between publishers and booksellers. it is impossible to compare such legislation exactly with an agreement between undertakings. different provisions of the treaty apply to them. legislation-based systems must be examined on the basis of article 28 of the treaty, while agreements between undertakings must be compatible with article 81 of the treaty. in both cases, the case law of the court of justice must of course be respected. the commission considers that national price systems for books, based on agreements between undertakings, are compatible with community competition rules if they do not significantly interfere with trade between member states. in such cases, article 81 shall not apply. as regards systems based on legislation, each member state is free to establish a legislative framework provided that it complies with the principle of the free movement of goods enshrined in the treaty. this choice is left to the national authorities. as regards more particularly the french legislation - to which mr rothley referred - as it was drafted at the time, the judgment of the court of justice in case 229/83 leclerc v au blé vert of 10 january 1995 stated that, in the context of national legislation establishing a fixed price system for books, rules requiring compliance with the sales price fixed by the publisher in the sale of books published in one member state and reimported into that member state after export to another member state, unless there are good reasons to believe that the books in question were exported for the sole purpose of reimportation with a view to circumventing the legislation, constitute measures equivalent to import restrictions, prohibited by the former article 28 (article 30) of the treaty. finally, i would point out that such legislation in germany and austria would not contribute to the harmonization of european law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the price of books is not increased by the same amount as in the case of books sold in the member states.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the fixed price system for books is a question of cultural policy par excellence. the very fact that i am addressing you here, mr president, commissioner, in german shows that a fixed price system for books is not just a national problem, but a problem that goes beyond national borders and concerns a number of small linguistic islands outside germany and austria. the book is a cultural asset, writing the first transcribed form of language, of linguistic identification. and while it is very important to respect the rules of competition, the question of the cultural dimension must be equally important. if the legal possibilities we have at present within the european union do not yet allow us to reach crossborder rules in this area, i hope that this will be the case in the near future, especially after the austrian and german ministers of culture in february last year recognised the need for crossborder rules in this area and provided a written argument on this. in order to protect authors and publishers, i think it is necessary to find a regulation on this matter. if it is no longer in the form of planned crossborder measures, it will have to be done at national level. the problem of importation, whether contractual or legislative, is a fundamental point in this connection. i hope that the rapprochement between the commission and parliament, which has already raised this issue on many occasions in the previous parliament, both in the committee on culture and in the plenary, will continue. and to quote mr rothley: there can be no question of continuing to have a variety of disparate national legislation in this area in the future. we need sensible regulation, which will not be optimal, but which will nevertheless meet the expectations of the professional organisations concerned. the french model could in the near future offer us a useful and viable solution. in this respect, we hope, commissioner, that you will be able to give effect to the wishes expressed by parliament here and in the documents of this parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
(de) mr president, i am glad that we can say that the death penalty has been abolished in europe. the abolition of the death penalty is almost part of our culture. unfortunately, it was not possible to incorporate abolition into un texts in 1999. we all know that the death penalty is still on the agenda in iran, turkey, china and yemen. i find it particularly tragic that the death penalty is still maintained in america, in the country which has set itself the goal of freedom and human rights. at the moment, two eu citizens are awaiting the death penalty, a spaniard in yemen and an italian in the united states. the latter, mr barnabei, is to be executed in the year 2000. mr. barnabei, a formerly upright man, is accused of murdering a young woman. this concerns me all the more as he is an italian citizen, like me. since leading american jurists say that this could be a miscarriage of justice, which happens quite often, but also because he is an eu citizen, i ask the commission and of course this parliament to do everything possible to commute this death sentence into a life sentence or to defer it.
- (it) mr president, for a christian, the demand for a moratorium on the death penalty and its abolition is not only a duty or a due act, but a moral choice of respect for a person who has failed and who can, and must, redeem himself. we are opposed to all deaths caused by human hands, such as abortion and euthanasia. the motion ignores the judgment of guilt. we would ask for a moratorium again even if the convict had confessed and we do so all the more so when there may be serious doubt as to his guilt. if we demand, on the basis of official human rights documents, humane conditions in the prison universe, we are even more opposed to the death penalty and therefore cannot understand how supposedly civilized countries can maintain barbaric laws. finally, i would like to emphasize that, in the modern conception of the study of the consequences of criminal judgment, punishment must have a re-educational function enabling the rehabilitation of the bankrupt citizen and his reintegration into civil society. we are aware of these values and we are reiterating our strong call for a moratorium on the death penalty for the two citizens convicted in virginia and yemen.
- (it) mr president, we are not invoking an abstract principle today, but we are intervening on behalf of a 33-year-old italian-american, rocco derek barnabei, who has been living for six years on death row in a prison in virginia, with the daily threat of death for a crime he most likely did not commit. how many other people are in the same situation as him? how many other people don't have the funds to pay for lawyers or expensive tests that could possibly exonerate them completely? it is our duty to condemn the death penalty without mercy and to continue to call, as the pope did last sunday, for at least the moratorium proposed by italy to the un member countries to be applied. we hope that the third millennium will begin with the acceptance of this proposal. in the meantime, we will continue to work concretely, supporting initiatives such as that of the tuscany region to raise funds to enable rocco barnabei to pass the necessary dna tests to prove his innocence. we call on you, mr president, to use all the means at your disposal to make the voice of parliament and the european institutions heard by the us authorities.
- (it) mr president, an extraordinary 21-year-old afghan girl, who miraculously escaped the barbarism of the taliban and is now a refugee with hundreds of thousands of women in islamabad, said to me: 'now that you are in the european parliament, speak about us! here, take my burka. show it, show the world the symbol and reality of our denied existence, imprisoned, our bodies raped, killed, stoned". that is why today i will be wearing a burqa to speak before this parliament. i make this gesture on behalf of all the women who are murdered, raped and denied their existence in afghanistan and around the world. (applause) every moment, women's rights are trampled on in afghanistan. afghan women and their resistance need our solidarity and commitment. for this reason, we call on parliament, the council, the commission and the united nations not to recognise the taliban regime and to promote an action plan for ngos working in afghanistan to ensure that the fundamental freedoms of afghan women are respected with a view to their economic and social emancipation, and for ngos helping afghan refugee women. we must also do something else together: grant asylum and assistance to women who have been forced to flee afghanistan. (applause) i would like to thank
- (it) mr president, yesterday's vote on the budget was a special moment in that the three institutions involved were represented by women. the president concluded by saying that the millennium was ending on a positive note. i simply wanted to point out, as the greenwich observatory has also recently noted, that the millennium will end on 31 december 2000.
- (it) mr president, as the applause for mrs redondo jiménez has confirmed, this is one of the most important measures we have voted for. i think that statistics are fundamental and italy is in the most absolute chaos when it comes to the milk produced by its cows. i therefore voted in favour of the report and wish to express the wish that statistics should also be drawn up on the number of pensioners in the 15 member states. many people say that there are too many of them, and i think the opposite: the statistics will enable us to verify this. i would like to see more of them, because retirement is a beautiful thing.
- (it) mr president, before i left for strasbourg, the pensioners who accompanied me to the airport asked me if we would talk about beer on friday morning. i said, "i'm sure you would". they said: "you have to explain why you voted and say that the pensioners are in favour of the production and development of beer". we are in favour of this not only because the party of pensioners, ten years ago, put forward as a candidate for mayor of the city of rome the top model solveig tubing, born in berlin, a great lover and expert of beer, but also because the statistics i have compiled on the subject have shown that beer rejuvenates those who drink it. i know that the social security agencies and governments are opposed to the development of beer because they will have to pay pensions longer, but as a representative of the party of pensioners i am in favour of it.
- (it) mr president, i should like to say how pleased i am to make this last explanation of vote in 1999 in favour of the savary report, which i voted for. i am very much in favour of this initiative by the european community to provide practical aid to the most deserving regions, such as tajikistan. as mr blokland has said in his statement, i would like to say to commissioner wallström - who is disturbing the sleep of italian, greek and spanish pensioners with old cars which must be quickly taken off the road - that i would be grateful if the aid granted to tajikistan and other countries were also controlled as to its allocation. i would be glad if they were also given to people who need them, such as pensioners.
