it is contrary to any democratic principle to decide on measures to promote an energy source which is already preferred without the consent of the european parliament.
euratom loans are in principle contrary to the internal market in electricity directive and put other energy sources at a disadvantage.
in order to avoid further obstacles to free competition in the energy market, the financial resources for decommissioning and waste management must be strictly and without exception managed separately and transparently and subject to control by an independent authority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used in a proper manner.
the general approach to the storage of radioactive waste is: the very fact that there is no safe solution to the disposal of nuclear waste shows how irresponsible it is to build new nuclear power stations.
it is also inconceivable that some countries can dispose of their radioactive waste by exporting it to third countries.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
euratom bonds - we all know this - are a distortive promotion of the nuclear industry: lower interest rates, cover for high political risks, no other type of investment in the entire energy sector anywhere comparable.
the committee on the environment has made it quite clear that within the european union six out of fifteen member states have never entered into nuclear energy production, six have decided to withdraw, leaving only three member states.
we have made it quite clear that since the question of the disposal of nuclear waste is an unresolved problem worldwide, it is unresolved!
secondly, i would like to say very positively that iran has signed the additional protocol to the international atomic energy convention, not least because of the initiative of some european foreign ministers.
the fact that citizens in a eurobarometer survey on enlargement in april 2003 identified the cultural sector as one of the major beneficiaries of enlargement, alongside the environment and trade, speaks to the commitment of international organisations to safeguarding and promoting cultural diversity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the protection of workshops - which i believe are now well protected - is also an important area, as are the common purchasing bodies, which have been set up by an increasing number of member states, and, of course, very important, all those provisions - especially in view of the enlargement mentioned by the rapporteur - which clarify, so to speak, the applicability of the labour, social, tax and environmental provisions in force in each country.
in conclusion, i can only appeal to the member states to implement this directive quickly, to implement it in the spirit of the new approach and to create a genuine internal market for public procurement, for more competition, for more transparency, but also for progress in the field of environmental and social policy.
the eu's enhanced cooperation with the un should and can make a concrete contribution to strengthening multilateralism and cover all areas of activity of both organisations: counter-terrorism, conflict prevention, human rights, crisis management, environmental protection and weapons of mass destruction.
the compensation must guarantee that the concerns of society are met, namely the desire for healthy and safe food and a livable environment.
we have clearly chosen the european agricultural model and thus the preservation of a multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in all parts of europe.
in order to conserve resources and to protect our environment, further research is essential in the fields of organic farming, extensive farming and, above all, non-food production.
the development of knowledge about renewable raw materials for energy and material use must be promoted as a survival strategy.
the emphasis must be on improving yield security, quality of life and environmental compatibility, as mentioned in the report.
on-farm research is an indispensable tool in integrating nature conservation and agriculture in the sustainable management and use of natural biotopes in the agricultural landscape.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy did not welcome this.
i am thinking of ratifying the additional protocol to the atomic energy agency.
the energy partnership is of course also a point of particular importance for europe.
energy security is the issue of the future.
cooperation in the closure of old nuclear power stations or the disposal of nuclear waste off the kola peninsula and in the north sea leaves much to be desired.
humanitarian and democratic interests, but also very concrete strategic interests in the energy sector, make it imperative to deepen the strategy for the south caucasus.
this framework directive already has three adopted daughters, the first on sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, particulates and lead, the second on benzene and carbon monoxide, and the third on ozone.
the commission has already set a target value for ozone in the parent framework directive and has acted accordingly.
the environment committee voted by a very narrow majority of 26 to 24 in favour of the limit values.
in addition, the environment committee requested and commissioned a study by the institute for european environmental policy.
i conclude by saying that we need to strengthen the resources in the personal environment of relatives and to increase the support and guidance of relatives.
this is a very important aspect of the european union's policy on the environment.
mr kendell, chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, has informed me that the item will be on the agenda for the next meeting of the committee in april.
i don't think this is sustainable.
first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr albert maat, very warmly for his report, because he has really tried to reconcile the very opposite views of the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment in a document that we can live with.
i wish the united states would spend as much energy - i don't say military - as it did in iraq to solve the real middle east problem.
i would also like europe to devote as much energy as some member states of the european union do to solving the middle east problem, because then there would be fewer terrorist attacks, then there would be fewer illegal killings like that of sheikh yassin.
we would have to do more, we would have to raise more money, but also much more energy to push these important reforms in the arab countries.
i would remind you that in the text of the convention for a new constitution for the eu member states of europe we have committed ourselves to implementing a policy designed to ensure sustainable social, economic and environmental development.
the environmental liability directive on the prevention of environmental damage and the restoration of the environment is therefore, in my view, a logical consequence of the commitment to the european regulatory model of the eco-social market economy.
i therefore expressly welcome the fact that the polluter pays principle is now applicable and that companies or other operators are obliged to prevent environmental damage or to compensate for damage caused to the environment or to pay for the corresponding remedial measures.
we cannot understand why environmental damage caused by wind, biomass, biogas and solar power plants should be the responsibility of the respective polluter, but not the responsibility of the nuclear plant operator under this directive.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
we have heard a great many good arguments this evening about the importance of adopting this directive quickly for our environment and for creating incentives for industry.
i think it is quite clear from the title of this directive that environmental protection is one of the priority objectives of this directive.
it is also not in the interests of a good environmental and energy policy to put the member states which are more advanced in one or other of these areas on a leash and to put them in chains.
i know that the debate between those present has already been concluded, but i would like to emphasize once again in this debate that it is very important for me and my group to have two legal bases here in order to enable better environmental and energy policies in the member states.
the point at issue here and today is what we in austria have always called for, namely a signal for a new pan-european transport policy, where, in addition to the classic objectives of this policy, namely transport efficiency, cost-effectiveness and road safety, the needs of others are also taken into account, in particular the needs of the people who live and have to live along european transport routes, and the needs of the environment and the objectives of sustainability.
environmental costs.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
we are committed to sustainability and we are committed to full employment and we are not playing off the different sectors against each other because they are mutually dependent and complementary.
we attach importance to the recognition and integration of small and medium-sized enterprises and, above all, family businesses as suppliers, and to the promotion of the climate of small and family businesses internationally and globally through objective and sound tenders.
the whole thing is certainly also related to sustainable development.
the second point, which mr schulz has already mentioned, is the question of competition, social europe and sustainable development.
i believe that we need to support social europe and sustainable development even more, without diminishing the importance of competition.
and in the energy sector, there are many consumer demands, as this report has shown, for alternative or renewable energy sources.
we have a great deal of difficulty in some countries in getting these renewable energies up and running.
here too, more investment is needed to drive this sustainable development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
in addition, there are negative environmental impacts from extraction, processing and consumption.
the targeted use of renewable energy is now more necessary than ever, the use of renewable raw materials not only makes a significant contribution to environmental protection, but also opens up new income alternatives for our farmers.
but above all, it is the right way to energy independence.
the commissioner, out of a sense of responsibility towards future generations, must work towards more efficient promotion and mandatory use of renewable energy at european level.
(applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
we have provided eur 49 million for the financial environment.
i believe that the latest developments - the crisis in the automobile industry, rising energy prices - show that we must also adjust the european budget to growth.
the intelligent energy for europe programme is also very important to us all.
i hope that we will be able to make some further progress in the future, particularly with regard to energy prices.
i think that the union, which is supposed to be a shield for europe, is making a very serious mistake by continuing to waste billions, to use a more dramatic word.
both are expressions of the european regulatory model of a sustainable social market economy.
how much money do we need for growth, competitiveness, employment, research, the common foreign and security policy, neighbourhood policy, social cohesion, sustainability, regional policy, small and medium-sized enterprises, enlargement, the common agricultural policy, information and communication, to name just a few of the issues that fall within the remit of the european institutions.
we will only be interested in russian energy supplies if we feel that energy will never be used as a political weapon and that the tap cannot be turned off for political reasons, but if there is an open investment climate on the other side.
then, as i have just said, cooperation with russia in the field of energy will be all the better.
and economically, we are experiencing tax, wage and environmental dumping all over the place.