so many small pieces of pollution are just as important as a big disaster in the long run.
i am very happy that the discharge at sea is included in the text and that we do not limit ourselves geographically but consider the sea as a common heritage that belongs to everyone wherever pollution occurs.
in any case, we must make sure that we distinguish between accidental pollution and intentional pollution.
the greens/efa group supports the pex report we are now discussing because it is a significant improvement on the draft directive, which shows that europe is finally taking a strong stand against the criminalization of environmental crimes at sea, also outside territorial waters.
the prestige accident is not unusual in this regard, because we also want to take action against port authorities for environmental damage caused when a ship in distress is denied access to a port or a safe haven.
mr president, on behalf of the environment group, i would also like to pay tribute to the political and intellectual work that philippe herzog has been able to accomplish in this house over many years, and in particular in the context of this report.
over the past decade, the market has been increasingly extended to other sectors, such as telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy.
i am thinking, along with many others, of the water supply, waste management and even information sectors.
on the other hand, municipalities and other local authorities must be protected in their democratic choice of how to manage certain services - for example water and waste - according to local needs.
it would be essential and urgent to relaunch a process of dialogue with a body such as the fao, so that food security and the protection and development of the rural environment can be discussed in a calm manner.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the cohesion of the whole of europe, the involvement of all regions in the sustainable european process is an expression of that solidarity which i believe is fundamental for european citizens to recognise themselves in the process we are leading.
you can count on our enthusiastic support for your priority of a good european constitution and for your ambition to make europe an effective player on the world stage, for the sake of peace and sustainable development.
finally, i hope that sustainable development will not be a dead letter when it comes to our own european policy on sugar, cotton or rice, because we will be judged on that.
it is fine to release information in countries of origin to curb potential illegal immigrants, but if a country's policies remain lax (for example, by tolerating illegal immigrants occupying churches to gain media attention), it is a waste of time and effort.
a closer look at the various examples cited in the communication reveals that among the positive experiences are cases where public enterprises have remained public but where waste and corruption have been combated, where the management of the enterprise has regained dynamism and efficiency and, above all, where a regulatory and political framework has been put in place with clear, ambitious objectives in terms of development, accessibility and quality of service and financed, in particular, by a high tariff rate.
on the question of verification and safeguards, the eu believes that the safeguards serve as a technical tool in support of the political goal of sustaining an environment in which there can be peaceful use of nuclear energy without the threat of proliferation.
in this connection we strongly support the verification role of the international atomic energy agency.
with it came the principle of regulated nuclear trade, the concept of nuclear safeguards and, of course, the international atomic energy authority, whose excellent work underpins the regime.
- mr president, the director of the international atomic energy agency, el-baradei, recently stated that the risk of nuclear conflict has never been greater than it is today.
the capacity of the international atomic energy agency needs to be strengthened urgently to enable effective monitoring.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as is unfortunately too often the case in national politics, european politics too suffers from the syndrome of being too often reactive rather than proactive in the development of adequate measures in the event of environmental disasters.
firstly, it is good that the agency will have sufficient financial resources to fight pollution with special ships, if a member state requests it.
the environmental aspect is one which my party can unconditionally support.
we believe that this is an essential element if we are to maintain sustainable development in the european union, combining economic growth with quality of life, competitiveness and environmentally friendly, competitive transport.
the climate of insecurity must not destabilise the efforts made, hence the need, no doubt, for a multiannual framework programme which would make it possible to structure the judicial system and put in place specific rules for reconciliation and an educational system.
first, as regards the diagnosis of the situation, i will not insist on the fact that the conventional economic, social or environmental indicators are not very good.
if you take countries like denmark, sweden or finland, you have economies that have high social and environmental standards, but are also globally competitive.
reading your presidency documents, and also reading the letter from the conservative and socialist prime ministers or heads of state meeting in berlin, we fear a retrogression from the achievements of the gothenburg european council, that is, a return to the old opposition which can be summed up as follows: high environmental standards and social standards which allow for a certain quality of life are contrary to competitiveness and job creation.
in order to make positive proposals, i would therefore encourage the european council to adopt an industrial policy which is in the interests of the environment.
how is it that the commission proposes a good paper on environmental technologies, but that paper is not accompanied by any roadmap on funding or implementation?
why not, in addition to the european investment bank financing, launch the idea of a large european public loan for sustainable development, since we are in areas where savings are in excess and are used to finance us deficits?
studies that have excluded lifestyle, social class and environmental factors have shown that the difference in average life expectancy between women and men is between zero and two years, so that the growing gap in life expectancy among the population of some states cannot be attributed to biological differences.
it is therefore clear that these countries must develop an active and sustainable employment policy in line with the european employment strategy.
moreover, given the important role played by women in the societies of developing countries, it is widely recognised that the full participation of women is a prerequisite for sustainable development.
it would be illusory to carry out actions in favour of development and sustainable development without taking women's views into account and making them actually involved in projects.
our action must be to promote and support women's participation in economic, social, political and environmental fields.
waste prevention, reuse and recycling are all topics to which we have devoted considerable attention in recent years.
we sort and collect our packaging waste and we ensure proper disposal of our appliances.
there are now recycling plants all over europe, and people are working all over europe to recycle the waste that we all produce.
but we must do this for the environment and we must continue to do so, because the waste mountain is still growing.
we must not therefore turn a blind eye to some of the difficulties in european waste policy.
secondly, the environmental return.
we think recycling is good for the environment, but there's a limit to it.
for example, if transport distances are too long, the environmental benefit becomes a disadvantage.
as regards the amendments, we wholeheartedly support all those which promote reuse and prevention, except those which express prevention in terms of a percentage, as in amendment no 13. as regards the definition of waste, i think we should have in mind the objective of reducing the environmental burden of production and consumption.
this requires an examination of the whole chain, from raw material to waste.
i do not think it is useful to argue constantly about the definitions of waste and prevention.
i agree with mr florenz that waste recycling is an essential element of sustainable waste management.
finally, i would like to make a comment on the economic and social aspects of waste prevention.
our main theme is the environment, but there are other aspects to it, particularly economic and social.
it is precisely these aspects that have been given too little attention, even though we have been talking about costs regularly in the committee on the environment recently.
we have previously called for the establishment of a super commissioner for sustainable development.
a radical change in the pricing structures is needed to allow the internalisation of the social and environmental costs of transport.
greenhouse gas emissions are mainly due to road transport.
some texts speak of a dramatic increase in traffic and a corresponding dramatic increase in exhaust emissions.
i would like to draw your attention to amendment no 24 by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i hope that when this committee is set up in a few years' time it will be able to consult properly with the ngos in the field of the protection of privacy and the environment.
when the extension of the life programme was first discussed, the court of auditors informed the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy that an audit had been carried out in eight member states.
i am very pleased that i have made an effort to ensure that functioning environmental organisations can continue to receive eu support for the purchase of nature reserves in the future.
economic policy has a lisbon agenda whose philosophy could be shared, but whose implementation is in fact deeply unbalanced, since it focuses all the attention on the liberalization of sectors and leaves behind the social and environmental objectives that are included.
we need coordination of the budgetary policies of the member states, standards of convergence in social and environmental matters, particularly in terms of working conditions, wage increases - i say wage increases - and environmental matters.
today europe is one, reunited in a voluntary, peaceful and sustainable way.
a step from division to unity, from the threat of conflict to the guarantee of peace and stability, a step from socioeconomic inequality to sustainable growth and prosperity for all our european citizens.
i therefore invite all those involved in the drafting of future european legislation to make legislation adapted to the specific needs of small businesses, which must devote their energy to productivity.
we must continue to work towards a better business environment, where more people have both the desire and the opportunity to set up a business.
the ten new countries that have joined have shown us that structural intervention is possible and that one must have the courage to stick to one's position in order to achieve the long-term objectives of peace, prosperity and a good social climate.
and why should not the environment be affected in the same way as maritime transport has been affected, for example, by double-hulled tankers?
and as far as aviation is concerned, can the union not take the lead in taking measures to make aviation more sustainable?
are there any things that the european union can do that it has not done to ensure that we get support for our position and that we can work towards a better sustainability?
i understand mr schmidt's concerns, but sustainability means maintaining a balance, both socially and ecologically and economically.
i hope that in this debate on the environmental disaster in the ulla, mr president, you will allow me to make some marginal remarks which i believe are of fundamental importance.
first of all: the potential environmental disaster we are facing today concerns toxic waste from thermal power stations.
so perhaps the time has come to stop making nuclear energy the only scapegoat.
in my country, for example, the government has committed itself to a complete phase-out of nuclear energy in the foreseeable future.
it is very doubtful whether this will ultimately benefit the environment, since at present there are no real alternatives and we are again illustrating the fact that the very real and serious problem of toxic waste is not just the result of nuclear energy.
i am very critical of european meddling and of too much intervention at european level in the politics and culture of our member states, with the exception of the closest possible cooperation on environmental protection.
if we really want to create more jobs and achieve sustainable development and real social cohesion, we must create in 2005 a mechanism that not only ensures the implementation of the lisbon objectives, but also provides real incentives and sticks behind the door to actually achieve these objectives, and that within a framework that does not jeopardise stability.
the same applies to the new proposal we are preparing, which seeks to address the objections raised to self-help from the point of view of safety, social protection and the environment.
the new proposal is likely to require all providers of port services to be subject to a licensing regime which ensures compliance with all applicable safety, labour and environmental standards.
a second question i ask myself: indeed, the sap+ system makes it possible to use trade as a lever for human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance.
the three examples i want to give here concern safety and the environment.
we have little understanding of the fact that in the political consensus between the three partners we clearly define a policy on railway safety, aviation safety and the fight against marine pollution, for example, and then the council comes and puts these funds at zero.
i think the message from the committee on transport was quite clear: we must at least provide the means for what we want politically, especially when it comes to the environment and safety.
the citizens expect signs, not only of the management of crisis situations, but also of a sustainable policy in these areas.
mobility and transport are at the crossroads of economy, security and the environment and affect all citizens who want to live together in europe.
the commission has not done enough, and it must be said with all seriousness that a number of member states have, above all, lacked the energy to follow up their promises with action.
europe needs dynamic, sustainable growth if we are to achieve more employment and safeguard our social model.
let's not waste this opportunity to make our voices heard.
i have heard you say before: there is no such thing, mr barroso, as economic and competitive issues on the one hand and social and environmental issues on the other.
i agree with mr rasmussen, but i would add that if we do not return to the conclusions of the gothenburg european council, which commit the whole of the union and which really put this strategy at the heart of a european strategy for qualitative growth, and if, in addition, india and china were to follow your words, well, in this century the earth's ecosystem would be in a catastrophic state.
so i ask you, in january, when you present your proposals, to return to the main conclusions of the gothenburg european council for a policy of qualitative growth in favour of employment and the environment.
we also expect proposals to improve the business environment, including for small and mediumsized enterprises, which remain the engine of our economic growth.
we are naturally pleased that, in combating marine pollution, we are finally moving from the zero-point, the pm-point, which was envisaged and proposed by the council, to some means of making it clear to the outside world that we now have the means to intervene, after having the political will.