this afternoon we are dealing with the report by mr pex on penalties for marine pollution offences.
it has been discussed on several occasions that waste is actually defined politically, partly in the commission's text.
in other words, waste is waste when it is no longer used.
in a hundred or two hundred years, it may well be that what is waste today may become fuel again.
the next point is to reduce waste, reduce volume, reduce toxicity.
despite the european-wide trend towards nuclear energy, the commission is acting as a handyman for the declining nuclear industry.
instead of relying on sustainable energy - renewable energy, that is - try to revive the nuclear industry.
and what i find even more scandalous is that you are even indirectly asking the member states to shift their unresolved waste disposal problems to eastern europe.
i think that this is a huge risk, particularly for the illegal spread and release of radioactivity into the environment.
i would ask you to take this up again, because it would be a waste of time for our institution and would not be in keeping with the dignity of parliament to have a debate and vote on a completely obsolete document which is currently being discussed in a totally different way in the council.
you said earlier in the debate on the nuclear package that renewable energy is running out.
the fact is that such loans are available for only one energy source.
the committee voted very narrowly on the amendment by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which provides that the loans should be granted only to installations already in operation and only outside the european union, so as not to create distortions of competition.
a few words on the support measures: it is true that in recent decades a great deal of money has been invested in the promotion of nuclear energy, as indeed today in the promotion of renewable energies.
if we convert this to kilowatt hours, the figure for nuclear energy is in the third place after the decimal point, while for renewable energy it is in the double digits of euro cents.
just this: we are indirectly promoting nuclear energy in russia by buying more and more gas from russia.
we should perhaps think about this when we talk about an energy strategy in europe.
we are improving our statistics on co2 emissions, which is true because we use more gas, but elsewhere coal plants are producing more co2 or nuclear power plants are being promoted.
this is another factor to consider, and it shows that our own energy strategy is not always coherent.
the commission should first of all explain and prove that competition is positive in the postal sector, public transport and other areas such as energy.
european shipowners must comply with community legislation on hygiene, monitoring of fishing activities, production conditions, environmental protection and social protection of workers.
the proposal was made with two broad aims in mind: to improve the protection provided to the environment and to consumers while, at the same time, maintaining and improving the single market in detergents.
i think this is a good sign for environmental policy, but also a good sign in particular with regard to the enlargement of the european union.
the balancing of all the components of sustainability, namely ecology, economics and social issues, has, i believe, been successful here.
i am glad that we are no longer fixing the waste water treatment plant at the end, but that we are already introducing innovative rules in europe at the start of the process, and this is not always done by the law, dear alexander, but by using innovative tools to motivate our companies to continue working.
if the same amount of detergent is used for one kilogram as for five kilograms, then that is the actual pollution.
we must create an environment which fosters more and better jobs for our people.
that is why the irish presidency has placed sustainable growth and social cohesion at the very centre of its work programme.
it is the means by which the member states and the european institutions can work together to develop the european economy, to create more employment, to ensure social protection and to invest in a sustainable future for us all.
we have seen advances in the areas of research and development, financial services, liberalisation of energy markets, telecommunications, environmental protection and regulatory reform.
and europe’s commitment to the environment means a cleaner and safer world for our children and our grandchildren.
our primary focus is clear: sustainable growth and high-quality employment are our twin priorities.
how to stay on course to realise the lisbon goal in the new climate represents a very considerable challenge.
the world is a better and a safer place when the european union and the united states work together, pooling their considerable energy and resources to achieve our shared goals based on our shared values.
the union has a critical role to play in responding to major developing challenges such as poverty alleviation, the fight against infectious diseases and environmental degradation.
the climate of confrontation, which increasingly characterises debates in the commission on human rights, is a problem which we will address with our partners.
i would remind you that in the programme of the irish presidency we have two directives, one is being completed and the other, concerning problems in the field of optical energy, is about to start the dialogue with the social partners and the first seminar of the irish presidency.
we know that it will be more difficult to introduce legislation on this than on, for example, the banning of asbestos or noise pollution.
in this respect, we are not operating in a free market economy, as the draft resolution of the committee on economic and monetary affairs says, but in an ecological and social market economy.
we in the socialist group are also in favour of strict control of aid, but aid can be justified from the point of view of modernisation, strengthening competitiveness, innovation, sustainable growth and the creation of lasting jobs.
and that is what we are doing today to have an airspace which can be managed more efficiently but, above all, in a safer way, more respectful of the environment, at the service of the citizens and which represents, i insist, a step forward which, in some respects, is almost revolutionary.
this is economic and ecological nonsense.
we will be more successful ecologically because any loop that is flown too much is a disaster for our environment, and we will be safer because we will overcome the fragmentation of the technical devices and cooperation that we have.
the fact that we have been able to enforce the criteria - sustainability, environmental protection and social aspects, including the special provisions for people with disabilities, for example - and have finally received the approval of the commission and the council is a good thing and i think we are doing very well.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the area of the environment.
i would like to make a specific reference to the worldwide pollution and poverty reduction.
this is even more true and more sustainable in developing countries, where they often reach the brink of disaster.
the decoupling of premiums from environmental requirements, the attempt to increase the role of the market in farmers' incomes and the payment of the non-standard benefits from public funds, how does this affect the distribution of production and thus employment and income?
the commission is not i think that this report and the short debate which will now take place fit well into what we have discussed here, both in terms of the difficulties with the avian influenza and in terms of the report by mr garot, who has made clear the difficulties in european agriculture, but also the importance which derives from the multifunctional role it has been given, and which arises from the dominant factor of agricultural landscapes in the ecological and social overall budget for agriculture.
the importance of agriculture is not taken into account here, and it must also be noted that the research indicated in this framework programme for agricultural research is largely geared to the rationalisation of production and less to the question of sustainability.
it is no longer competitive because the social, environmental and hygiene standards in these countries are different.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in his meetings, minister cowen pointed out that the status quo was not sustainable and that progress must be made on the implementation of the roadmap.
i also believe, madam vice-president, that what the rapporteur has proposed, namely that the agency should receive sufficient, indeed sufficient, financial resources to be able to quickly charter vessels, equipment and the like at the request of the coastal countries and to be able to provide rapid assistance in the event of marine pollution, is being met and that these sufficient resources should be provided.
ten people will be assigned to the issue of managing and responding to pollution problems; seven to training; and about eight to security, with regard to terrorism aspects.
i would point out to the honourable members - and this is my reply to mrs miguélez ramos - that it is obvious that the north-western face of the iberian peninsula is one of the most dangerous areas for ship pollution.
the idea is that the anti-pollution ships should be concentrated and permanently established, more or less as a base of operations, in the areas where there are the greatest risks and, of course, they will also be needed in the mediterranean.
once again - and this is the last part-session - we are making progress and completing very important measures to provide the european union with a legal system and a system of means that will really make it possible to combat marine pollution and improve safety.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- the next item is the recommendation (a5-0042/2004) of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market on the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the protocol of 2003 to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage, 1992, in the interest of the european community, and authorising luxembourg and austria to accede to the underlying instruments in the interest of the european community (14389/2003 - com (2003) 534 - c5-0002/2004 - 2003/0209 (avc)) (rapporteur: gil-robles gil-delgado).
i think, as you know, that we must act on all fronts: we must act with the maritime safety agency, with the control of port authorities, with the facilities that we have approved here, facilities in ports that enable ships to unload and to clean up bilge and other types of waste water, and all this - do not think we have forgotten - using the latest technologies, from satellite photography to all kinds of systems and means of controlling the systems installed on the ships themselves and in the departure areas to control when they leave and whether or not cleaning has taken place.
i think we have to act on all fronts because marine pollution is something we cannot tolerate.
the work we are doing in the field of democratisation and human rights in the wider middle east is crucial not only to the sustainable economic and political development of countries in that region, but also to the relationship between europe and the islamic world, particularly those parts of the islamic world which are closer to our own geographical borders.
we must and we want to help to ensure that a process of normalisation takes place that is sustainable.
their tanker ran aground off the port of karachi, triggering the worst environmental disaster in pakistan's history.
for example, in the field of oil pollution, there is an agreement on liability, which has now been signed by 124 countries.
there are the areas of environmental investment, energy saving investment, investment in alternative energy sources to generate sustainable growth with employment effects, and there are also - as has been rightly said - investment in people, the most valuable resource of this european union.
i believe that this is a challenge for this spring summit, and i very much hope that we will succeed in convincing governments that the steps taken so far will not be enough to organise the sustainability that is important to us all - also in the interests of future generations.
the commission has always been concerned with consumer protection and environmental protection.
i would ask the commission to seriously consider a moratorium of three to five years on environmental and consumer legislation, which is the only way we can achieve the lisbon objectives, because we are only in the process of preparing for them.
only such a moratorium by the european union, which is already a world leader in environmental protection, occupational safety and health and social protection, can make us the most competitive region in the world, as we decided in lisbon.
if we look closely, ladies and gentlemen, where the greatest growth and employment impulses have been found in recent decades is precisely in the areas mentioned by mr langen earlier, namely in the field of sustainable development and environmental protection.
i believe that it is also necessary to encourage investment activities here, particularly in the renewal of our cities, both in terms of the social and ecological components and in terms of transport.
again, as regards the question of social and environmental components, it is clear that these areas have the greatest potential for growth and therefore the greatest employment implications.
of course, i think it is also true that an unregulated market will also have significant negative environmental consequences.
investing in these areas would help to safeguard our ecological livelihoods.
i think we must remain true to the lisbon and gothenburg principles and say that we want a sustainable mode of production in europe, one that induces growth and employment based on an ecological basis of life.
the reduction of government bureaucracy, the improvement of the structure of financial markets and the increase in investment - as my colleagues have pointed out - can create more and more sustainable jobs.
we have common interests in the fields of energy, security and the fight against terrorism.
i think we should make this clear, and we should not allow the situation in belarus to prevent the supply of energy to the european union from being carried out in the way agreed in the treaty.
for the region we have programmes dealing with drug trafficking, border management and environmental matters.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
we are also dependent on the region for our energy supply, for example the transport of oil.
the energy policy has already been raised by many colleagues.
i regret that the initiative of our parliament to hold an energy congress here in brussels together with the commission has so far failed for reasons of timing.
the priorities adopted were: poverty eradication, sustainable economic growth, educational opportunities for all sections of the population, especially girls and women, gender equality and equity, protection, support and promotion of the family, universal access to reproductive health, family planning and sexual health services, reduction of infant, child and maternal mortality.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the community's external action in the field of the environment.
what we urgently need - and i hope that we will not lose hope, commissioner - and i would ask you to comment on this, is that we finally have a consumer information directive along the lines of the environmental information directive.
because just as consumers, citizens, have a right to know what is happening in the environment, they must have a right to know what is happening in the food sector.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the protection of the environment.
this was the expression of very different opinions among the members of the committee on the environment.
- the next item is the report (a5-0047/2004) by mrs kronberger, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on arsenic, cadmium, mercury, nickel and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in ambient air (com (2003) 423 - c5-0331/2003 - 2003/0164 (cod)).
of course, the position of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is also a negotiating position.
as i have said, the position of the committee on the environment is of course also a negotiating position.
but we need to make clear statements about where the journey is to go so that dangerous substances are not released into the environment, into the air.
if you look at where these hazardous substances, such as cadmium, chromium or nickel, are mainly released into the air or into the environment, you will find that this is usually the case in areas where many people live.
we must exploit the opportunities for reducing emissions in the context of technological progress.
the objective has remained the same: to make these sectors more competitive and sustainable.
the central element in these reforms is decoupling, with the commission proposing partial decoupling in order to take account of environmental and social sensitivities.
i am well aware of the socioeconomic and ecological significance of the cultures under discussion today.
it gives farmers the freedom and flexibility to manage their land as they see fit and to exploit market opportunities, while taking into account environmental and social concerns.
finally, i am also prepared to consider adapting annex iv of the council to ensure that olive groves are maintained in good agricultural and ecological condition.
i would also remind you that at the gothenburg summit on sustainable development it was said that only healthy products should be supported under community policies.
the presidency has consistently reiterated the need for the spring european council to give a strong signal as to the continued importance of the lisbon strategy in providing a framework for simultaneous progress on economic, social and environmental renewal throughout the union.
similarly, member states have also agreed that the overreaching priorities for the council should be those of sustainable growth and employment as identified by us in the first draft of the annotated agenda issued on 17 february.
we can't let this all go to waste.
as regards the elbe upstream dam plans, i successfully argued with the eu commission that an environmental impact assessment is absolutely necessary for this project and that cross-sectoral alternatives must be developed.
the bad spirit of anti-communism, which is out of date, is here and could poison the climate not only in this house but also in the applicant countries.
it relieves the burden on road and rail corridors and is a very energy-efficient and environmentally friendly mode of transport.
the reform of the transeuropean networks which has been discussed here is not sustainable.
it is not clear that there is a truly sustainable mobility concept for europe as a whole behind this, but it is simply a collection of national interests once again.
the projects are not shown to have been subject to optimal cost-benefit analyses and are in many respects in conflict with european environmental legislation.
the concept of transeuropean networks must pass a strategic environmental review before european money can flow into the projects.
european money must be invested in a sustainable way.
it is about the transport of goods, it is about jobs, and it is also about taking care of the environment when transporting.
however, rail projects and waterways also have environmental implications, and that is why we need a strategic environmental impact assessment within the transeuropean networks.
i would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, and the members of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy for their work and constant interest in science and research matters.
for example, the hortimed project associates israel and neighbouring countries such as egypt, the palestinian territories, cyprus and greece in the search for economic and sustainable solutions for the use of water in irrigated horticulture, particularly by using recycled and cleaned water.
but we can't waste any more time.
we see it in the european parliament: we are constantly bombarded with e-mails, we have a terrible waste of data.
the third objective is to define the role of the competent authorities; and the fourth objective is to consolidate and simplify the regulatory environment.
if this were really in the interests of animals, it would also make it more difficult for dangerous animal diseases to spread and reduce the environmental impact of co2 emissions.
i have followed the debate on this subject in two committees, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which is the lead committee, and also in the advisory committee on agriculture and rural development.
they have 80 percent of all new vehicles, and they lose about 8 to 10 percent of the greenhouse gases per year.
i think it's absolutely clear that we need to go down the path of addressing alternatives that are as safe as possible with as little greenhouse potential as possible.
third, this alternative is actually a co2-based air conditioner with a greenhouse potential 1,300 times less than the greenhouse potential we have now.
fourthly, i think we must take the same approach as we take to the type approval of new cars, because the design, the energy of the engineers, is important, and we must demand new air conditioning systems as quickly as possible.
i think it is also clear that the air conditioning of the future, if we go down this road away from f-gases to co2-based air conditioning, is in fact no longer a climate killer, but that an air conditioning of the future can also be a job killer for european jobs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
this is to apply to all environmental law, that is to say to the whole body of legislation defined in the community as protecting or improving the environment, including human health and the protection of the rational use of natural resources.
the following are listed as examples: water protection, noise protection, soil protection, air pollution, land use planning, biotechnology, etc.
this gives environmental organisations a universal right to complain and to monitor the implementation of the law.
the environmental organizations are, after all, interest groups like any other, which have no democratic legitimacy and are not bound by law and order in their actions.
thank you for that, mr manders, and thank you for your good work on the environmental liability file!
thanks to this new directive, a comprehensive framework whereby environmental damage would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability will be put in place for the first time.
this new system will be a valuable benefit for the citizens and the environment of an enlarged union.
i think that the text before you will constitute a significant step forward towards better environmental protection in europe.
the commission has also made a very good case for the environmental liability directive in the conciliation procedure, as it has shown on many occasions in the past.
the environmental liability directive has been a long-standing concern of parliament and has generated considerable, controversial debate.
this is a great day for environmental protection in the european union.
the directive will provide for the first time a compensation for damage to protected species and habitats, the so-called pure ecological damage.
this is a long overdue liability loophole being closed in the interests of the environment.
a calculation is not possible at present, particularly for the pure ecological damage mentioned at the outset.
i would like to begin by thanking the european parliament, and in particular the committee on the environment and the rapporteur, mr sjöstedt, for the work he has put into his report at first reading.
waste from extraction can have a composition and volume that pose a serious threat to the environment and human health if not managed properly.
this was demonstrated in the major accidents at aznalcóllar in spain in 1998 and also at baia mare in romania in 2000, when dams containing processing waste burst, releasing large quantities of toxic substances and leading to major environmental, economic and social impacts.
the proposal aims to introduce eu-wide rules to prevent pollution of water and soil from long-term storage in ponds or processing waste sites.
the appropriate management of waste from extraction will be ensured throughout the eu thanks to the proposed directive in conjunction with the amended seveso ii directive on the prevention and reduction of the consequences of major accidents involving dangerous substances and a document on best available techniques for the management of stone and processing waste ponds.
the commission shares the views expressed that the proposal should have a sufficiently wide scope and that some exemptions, such as those concerning waste from exploration, should therefore be removed.
in view of this, the exemptions for inert waste should not be extended to all non-hazardous waste, as this would weaken the proposal.
pollution from mines can be a problem, to be sure.
however, this proposal, which concerns waste, cannot regulate it.
as regards historical waste, the commission supports the amendments which require the most polluted areas to be inventoried.
we also support the amendments which stress the need to plan closure appropriately from the design of waste facilities.
i would like to conclude by pointing out that the commission is seeking a directive which is sufficiently comprehensive to be able to achieve these important environmental objectives.
in an orderly, clean and environmentally friendly europe, waste policy is of particular concern, and tonight it is the mining waste.
but the question is: is all that which we do not use or recycle at the moment really in the category of waste?
it was the definition of waste that made the discussions in the european parliament in committee so difficult.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a very clear statement in its report, the sjöstedt report, in favour of a definition such as we already have in the waste framework directive.
we are in favour of proper management and disposal of real waste, contaminated material or rock.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
the mines that have not been properly closed, the dumps that have been opened up - we are talking about what is called historical waste.
the rapporteur does not go far enough in amendments nos 71 and 72. a directive on mining waste does not have to repeat and re-enact everything that is already regulated in other directives of the european union.
this concerns the landfill directive, the water framework directive and the waste framework directive.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that all our efforts must be geared towards sustainability.
environmental, economic and social aspects must be balanced.
this applies to the approval of plants as well as to the requirements in waste management plans and to the restructuring of plants.
but that is because we are not dealing with mining waste only these days, but we are dealing with our reach system, our chemicals policy, again, even in the run-up to the next election.
the socialist group is very pleased with the legislation we have now on waste from the extractive industries.
we need uniform standards in europe for the management of this waste.
this will lead to a further approximation of the conditions of competition for businesses in the member states, and at the same time there will be an improvement in the living and environmental conditions for our citizens.
the committee discussed the definition of waste and the financial guarantees to be provided by industry.
we want every company to have the duty to ensure that it is able to repair the damage to the environment for which it is responsible.
as far as the definition of mining waste is concerned, we have taken into account all those who have contributed to the discussion process.
the industry, the environmental ngos, the ecj and, last but not least, the commission.
we have made some amendments to the commission proposal in the environmental field.
the fact that there are only 20 amendments from the groups for the plenary is a testament to the good work we have done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
we identified what needs to be done in practical terms to promote sustainable growth and more jobs.
my colleagues agreed with my proposal that discussions should be on two overarching themes – sustainable growth and employment – as the key challenges needed to be tackled urgently.
the european council agreed that we need a balanced approach if we are to ensure that future growth will be sustainable.
equally, future growth, to be sustainable, has to be environmentally sound.
legislation agreed in recent weeks ranges from financial services to rail market opening, to intellectual property rights and to environmental liability.
growth must be not only economically sustainable but also environmentally sustainable.
one of the most interesting new areas in this regard is that of environmental technologies.
the european council recognises the importance of enabling companies to exploit new technologies, and has called for the rapid implementation of the environmental technologies action plan.
of course, growth and competitiveness are not ends in themselves: they are the means to secure and develop the european social model, with its emphasis on sustainability and inclusion.
for the time being, there seems to be a political will to rapidly implement the european growth initiative, which includes a list of quickstart projects in research and development, transport, energy and information technologies.
we are still concerned with sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion.
with regard to the problem of low utilisation of fishing possibilities and the waste of community funds, the standard transfer clause making it possible for the commission to reallocate under-utilised fishing possibilities to other non-quota older member states has been introduced.
secondly, it serves as an excellent example of sustainability and balance in the waters of the north atlantic.
the eu fisheries organisations involved in the greenland agreement have committed themselves to sustainable and responsible fishing.
that is how you make a sustainable fisheries policy!
because for 40 years this country on the bosphorus has been promised membership, anything else would be a destabilization of the people in turkey and also of the political climate we have in europe.
in the end, unfortunately, turkey has ensured that armenia is not involved in the negotiations on energy transport and the construction of the pipelines from the caspian sea region, which is rich in natural gas and oil, but on the contrary, is bypassed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for developing this thematic strategy and i would also encourage her to continue on this issue because i believe that we are at a stage in europe at the moment where we have to think about whether we can continue the waste policy as we have done so far or whether we have new knowledge and do not just have to turn some screws, but maybe also make a system change here and there.
the second thing that i am very concerned about is that we are making sure that in the waste and recycling sectors, parallel regulations or papers, such as reach, ivo, but also integrated product policy and the resource strategy - which should have been discussed now - are compatible with this report.
we welcome the commission's approach to developing sustainable waste management with equal ecological, economic and social parameters, i.e.
sustainable policy.
we also believe that the entire life cycle of resources, but also of waste policy, must be considered together; the whole life cycle must be considered, not just a part of it.
i do not want to question the sustainable combination in the waste hierarchy at all.
but we must also make this waste hierarchy more transparent and flexible, because prevention, reuse, recycling, energy recovery and environmentally sound disposal of waste are old and well-established tools.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection then clearly addressed the issues of where more proposals for harmonisation need to be made and where existing rules need to be actually implemented in the implementation.
as we know, the international conference on renewable energy will be held in bonn in the first days of june.
the german chancellor had announced this conference in johannesburg at the world summit on sustainable development in 2002. i think that was a really important outcome, this conference.
i think that, particularly those who were also in johannesburg, were extremely disappointed with the result in johannesburg as far as renewable energy is concerned.
i think that the european union has developed its strategy for the expansion of renewable energies in a truly exemplary way: doubling the share of renewable energy to 12% by 2010 and doubling the share of electricity to 22.1%.
we are in the process of - and this is important - following up on efficiency through the ecodesign directive and energy services.
i do not need to mention the keywords - the problem of climate protection, finite resources, reducing dependence on imports, creating jobs in this area.
but it is also important to integrate the renewable energy sector into many other european union policies: structural policy, regional policy, mediterranean policy, for example, and certainly development cooperation policy.
we know that three billion people in the world live without access to electricity, and it's a very important part of the poverty reduction to focus here on what's a real opportunity here, which is decentralized renewable energy systems.
and that is why we have made it very clear in our resolution that it is necessary to provide for appropriate measures, that is to say that financing agencies such as the european investment bank and others must also give priority to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
it may surprise you to know that in 25 years, you can extract as much energy from one cubic centimeter of silicon as you can from one cubic centimeter of uranium.
it is true that it surprised me, and it underlines the enormous potential that is also lurking in renewable energy.
i think it's extremely important that we connect climate policy, energy policy and poverty reduction.
the instrument, or at least one of the instruments, for this purpose is, for example, decentralized energy supply systems based on renewable energies.
the commission has thankfully recently published a very interesting brochure in which it has outlined the funds which can be mobilised in this way for the renewable energy sector in the mediterranean alone.
after all, renewable energy must be financed, and we all know that it is not cheap.
the whole world is talking about it, renewable energy has a good press, and that's a good thing.
i am very familiar with the discussions at home about the cost of renewable energy.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is guaranteed.
it is a complementary and indispensable instrument to the second gas internal market directive, since it defines the minimum requirements for the key element of the approach to energy market liberalisation, i.e.
for the commission, this does not mean in any way jeopardizing the profitability and future investment in a key element for the development of the gas market, namely the construction and maintenance of gas networks throughout our geography, and the proof is in the proposal for transeuropean energy networks, where several of the major projects we have already approved for the future relate to gas networks.
my group supports the proposal for further consultation with the amendments of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
i would like to begin with what mr chichester concluded, namely that we cannot go fast enough in opening up the energy markets.
i would remind you that last year, after more than two years of intensive work on both the electricity and gas markets, we adopted the relevant directives to accelerate the opening up of energy markets in europe.
we are waiting to see what the council does and then we go to second reading, but we will continue to support these 42 amendments which were adopted in committee here in the house and we hope that we will also make some progress in the area of opening up energy markets.
but without supply, competition cannot do this either, which means that i believe that security of supply, especially for natural gas, will depend very much on a european external energy policy, i.e.
reducing the energy consumption of appliances benefits everyone.
it benefits the environment it helps us achieve the kyoto targets faster and cheaper and it benefits the consumer by saving on electricity and energy bills.
if this is not done, if the council simply ignores these amendments, then we will have a national patchwork of regulations, we will miss the kyoto targets, consumers will continue to waste money on useless electricity, useless energy consumption.
before i come to the de roo report, i would like to say a word about emissions trading in general, and the moreira da silva report, which mrs oomen-ruijten has also mentioned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty.
i believe that the de roo report is an important step forward in international climate policy.
emissions trading itself, we have zero emissions factor for biomass, which means if you burn biomass, you don't need any certificates at all.
if we are now also paying for the planting of trees, then we have been lying to ourselves and not to the climate protection!
one, we want to design batteries that are environmentally friendly to handle, and two, we don't want to add to our waste problem.
i also agree with the many compromises we have found together, which aim to organise battery collection and recycling more effectively, so that our waste problem is indeed alleviated.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market.
if we really want to achieve sustainable production, we have to think in terms of life cycles, not individual products.
only then, i believe, can we convince companies to really change production, and ultimately to push for environmentally friendly and sustainable production.
we still have the problem of the waste that has been taken out of the sea in the last few months and in the last few years, which needs to be carefully recycled, but that's a special problem.
so for me, coastal protection, environmental protection or whatever you want to call it is also europe-wide regional and structural support.
a breathing space for the marine ecosystem and a greater willingness to invest in the sea lanes, the maritime highways of the future, will be the rewards.
this is a first step towards the complete internalisation of environmental costs, a success which should not be underestimated.
it is right that we have extended the definition of sensitive areas - and i do not agree with mr jarzembowski on this point - to include conurbations, because that is where the greatest noise and emissions problems arise.
but the progress we have made so far is not enough to achieve a sustainable approach to the european euro.
fair competition means that the long-term environmental damage must also be considered at this point.
it is clear that not only mountain areas but also valleys, which act as cauldrons and in which pollution is massively increased, as well as cities which are already heavily polluted, all sensitive areas would be affected by a possible increase in the impact of transport.
we therefore believe that more scope must be given to the inclusion of external costs in the polluter pays principle in transport, with the aim of greater road safety, sustainable diversion and, above all, sustainable environmental protection, because we do not want the next generation to suffer the damage we are causing now with a short-term concept of the euro coin.
we have had a very good working relationship with the committee on the environment and we regard it as a decisive step towards improved coordination and communication between the member states.
our debate on future financing must also consider how we can enhance the priority which we attach to promoting the principle of sustainability in respect of future growth and development.
while there may be differing viewpoints on specific aspects of the issue, i am pleased to see that there are many areas of shared analysis and a common recognition of the importance of focusing on issues such as sustainable development, growth, freedom, security and justice, and the union's external role.
the common objectives are ambitious: sustainable growth, enhanced competitiveness through the strengthening of science, research and education, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice for our citizens, the assumption of greater shared responsibility in the world and the successful integration of the new member states.
for example, the share of agricultural spending will decrease and the share of spending to promote sustainable growth will increase.
you also said that spending on agriculture is going down, spending on sustainable economy is going up.
they have created a reserve for a growth adjustment fund, but there is no specific reserve for dealing with crises in policy areas such as foreign affairs or the environment, and so i think that there should be some improvement here.
it is certainly true that the commission is focusing on growth targets, employment and sustainability in the new headings, but i would say that we would be all the more credible if this were to be reflected much more strongly, not only in the budgetary field, but also in the implementation of the acquis communautaire, and if we were to focus more on european legislation and its consolidation in this respect too.
the commission has already proposed a new category for sustainable growth and a new category for the conservation and management of natural resources.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
just one example: the common climate policy must become part of the future cohesion policy, including the selection of projects.
the 2005 budget must now focus on making the financial base sustainable and sustainable so that the fishing industry can finally return to profitability.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
i am not blaming my good friend chris heaton-harris, nor mr sjöstedt, nor jens peter bonde, nor mr callanan, who has made a rather surprising statement on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i have been quite open about this as rapporteur, but i accept the decision of the committee on the environment, the majority of this body.
last but not least, the agreement opens up the possibility of engaging pakistan in new areas not previously covered, such as regional cooperation, money laundering and energy.
i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
we must be concerned about this, and we want to look at these basic lines of economic policy and reformulate them in such a way that economic growth can be stimulated and the economic, social and environmental sustainability of this growth can also be strengthened.
i repeat the criticism of the european parliament that many member states are not living up to the promises made in the lisbon strategy, which links and concentrates all measures to create genuinely sustainable growth and also to strengthen competitiveness.
in this respect, the guidelines should also clearly and concretely express its focus on human resources, research and development and innovation, but also on industrial policy with a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, renewable energy and environmentally friendly technologies.
the environmental technology action plan must be implemented, but we must not forget about investment in social infrastructure either, because we will not achieve productivity growth unless we increase the balance between work and family life in the european union and, therefore, the employment rate of women.
i believe that these partnerships for change need to address economic, social and environmental issues in a comprehensive way if we are to really get to a better and more political expression of the lisbon strategy.
the whole thing must also be formulated in such a way that it actually forces all the partners to make the link in the interests of sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion.
i do so primarily because altiero spinelli broke with stalinism early on, in 1937, and later fought tirelessly for european unity with idealism, passion, energy and sometimes with visions that went beyond his own time, whether as an adviser to de gasperis, jean monnet, the italian foreign minister nenni, as a visiting professor and political scientist, as a member of the commission or the european parliament.
in addition, it is not sufficiently permeable to the union's new objectives in terms of the lisbon agenda and sustainable development.
therefore, as a former member of the convention, i make the following urgent appeal to the irish presidency of the council and the european council:first, under no circumstances should we give in to the renewed push by the european central bank to revise the targeting in part i. the convention has advocated that the ecb should continue to promote sustainable growth, employment and price stability in a balanced way.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
without it, we would not have had the frameworks of social and environmental protection which are the cornerstones of the european model.
we need to focus on the key concerns of the citizen: jobs, social and environmental protection, peace and security.
we worked hard to ensure that the millennium development goals, with their strong emphasis on poverty eradication and sustainable development and the hiv/aids pandemic, were given the high focus that they deserve.
it is gratifying to see you taking up your duties with determination and pursuing the legislative activities of this parliament with energy.
internally, by working towards consolidating the enlarged union, sustainable economic growth, security and a solid financial base for the years ahead.
the second theme on the agenda is also about looking to the future: sustainable economic growth.
that is why we must continue vigorously to improve the knowledge environment in europe.
(applause) our ambitions are not just about economic growth, but also about sustainability.
the dutch presidency will work to strengthen the environmental dimension of the lisbon process, with particular attention to sustainable mobility, clean technology and international climate policy.
(applause from the centre) it is not acceptable, by the way, for many things, but if we want to pursue a sustainable policy, we need kyoto.
do you support sustainable development policy?
do you ensure that the european union develops a sustainable development policy?
do you support a resource-efficient energy policy?
the second question was, is he the candidate who is pursuing a sustainable environmental policy, a sustainable economic policy, a sustainable development policy based on fair trade in the world?
mr president, for many years the international civil aviation organisation has been looking at market-based options designed to limit aviation emissions and introduce the aircraft and operating practices that are best environmentally.
the icao has been looking at three options: taxes on fuel or emissions, emission charges and emissions trading.
unfortunately, under pressure from the united states, the council has decided to propose a resolution which recommends that the icao only pursue emissions trading and, therefore, disregard the other options.
the commission shares the view that the european union must make the most appropriate use of all economic instruments for achieving sustainability in the aviation sector, as it does in other sectors.
this means pressing to keep all options – taxation, emissions charging and emissions trading – open.
since there is no certainty at present that any one measure will suffice, disregarding any option that might help limit the impact of aviation on climate change at this stage is not desirable.
the debate on emissions trading and government levies in space is based on a proposal from the icao council.
the issue of emissions trading and aviation taxes is far too complex for the european parliament to comment on without careful preparation.
the fact that aviation and the environment are sensitive issues is evident from the reactions of some airlines, but what is the point?
we know that there is a connection between air travel and global warming; there is no dispute about that.
it is therefore essential to maintain options for reducing emissions, using environmentally-based, market-based instruments.
we are not talking about the introduction of emissions trading today or in the next two weeks, but we are talking about the potential possibility for the eu to make this possible in aviation in the future with market-based instruments in the area of emissions trading, and this is a position that the eu should remain open to.
the us must also understand that the eu behaves a little differently when it comes to the environment and aviation.
commissioner, i am very grateful to you for pointing out that all instruments are necessary to ensure climate protection and for qualifying the icao targets as being in opposition to all our targets set by the eu.
the second point is that the eu has always attached a very high value to climate protection and has considered it to be very important.
in this context, it cannot be excluded that air transport, which is a threat to the climate and climate protection, is the only one to be excluded from the measures.
the environmentally friendly mode of transport must be given priority over the mode of transport which damages the environment.
we have made some progress in recent years with the prestige of legislative measures, and if the member states were to process all the commission's proposals more quickly, we might be a step further along in criminal law on pollution.
even though we are now in the process of transitioning to the new commission and we will not be explaining this tonight, i would ask the commissioner to draw up a proper report, a good analysis, both on the environment and on transport after this disaster, and then perhaps also to submit additional legislative proposals, perhaps in the context of erika iii.
the same applies to the cuts you propose in the european agencies, food safety, environmental protection or maritime safety.
who else in europe is really going to make environmental policy if not us?
in the sense of political change, of aid, including the things that have now been addressed with the 200 million, to organise aid, to bring about dialogue, to build structures from which sustainable development will then emerge.
the second issue we discussed was debt and debt sustainability.
secondly, in assessing whether a member state has reached sustainable public finances, the costs of ageing should be taken into account.
thirdly, we agreed to look further into the issue of debt sustainability.
first, the need to place greater emphasis on the level of indebtedness and the sustainability of public finances throughout the process of monitoring and surveillance of the development of public finances in each of the member states.
in principle, compliance with the 3% ceiling for the maximum deficit should ensure an appropriate reduction in the level of indebtedness and the sustainability of public finances in each country.
it should be clear that the sustainability problem does not only affect countries which already have high levels of debt, above the 60% reference value, but also other member states where the percentage of their debt to gdp is increasing or which, without increasing at the moment, already know that they have to face very important and very difficult challenges in the future.
this therefore ensures equal treatment for different member states, irrespective of their different sustainability situation of their public accounts.
only a simple, attractive tax system, the deregulation of labour markets, the renewal of social security systems and education will help to increase competitiveness and generate sustainable growth.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the stability and growth pact is a requirement of equity and sustainability.
in this context, the european commission's communication rightly raises the question of long-term sustainability and calls for a better link between the broad lines of economic policy and the stability and growth pact.
on the contrary, the work is continuing and everyone must carry this project through with the same energy, the same enthusiasm and the same discipline.
therefore, more needs to be done for targeted information; the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
secondly, it means preserving the endangered and precious biodiversity.
the epp-ed group strongly believes that further steps are needed at global and european level to reduce environmental pollution, including from air transport.
the european commission has recently published a report on the implementation of the european union's energy strategy.
i think we are a long way from having sustainable concepts in the automotive or mobility industries.
i would very much like to see the new energy crisis now lead to european research policy actually going in the direction that we will someday be able to actually produce one-litre cars, so future-proof cars, in german factories, in european factories, in the foreseeable future.
what we need are preventive measures that do not leave everything to the market, all the more so if we are to take the gothenburg agenda seriously and bring about sustainable development.
we must get away from the fact that we are partly making environmental legislation - very extensive, then safety legislation (pedestrian protection and the like), then mobility legislation - but have failed in the past to devise a really coherent, unified strategy for this sector.
i am a green person, and i don't want us to think that more than 20 years after the first report of the club of rome or 10 years, more than 10 years after the first climate change conference in rio, that we have learned about the ecological (the president withdraws the speaker.)
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the committee on the environment is a committee with a great deal of legislative power, but it is also a committee with a very small budget.
and the only financial instrument for the environment, the life programme, has even been cut in the 2005 budget compared with 2004. so we're very frugal there.
we are not spending even 0.25% of the european budget, that is to say, not even a quarter of a percentage point, on the environment.
we also have the impression that the staff in the environment dg are not sufficient to implement the policies we want.
that's more than five and a half times the total for the entire environmental title.
because this is not an easy file, you have moved through it, and you have not always had an environment that was constantly supporting you, but you have often had to work very hard.
but they are being put into an area where we want to make domestic policy, where we want to make environmental policy, research, development, education policy.
we are deeply convinced that growth policy cannot be separated from sustainable development.
even with green ideas, with environmental measures, you can write black numbers.
this is the real modern economic and innovation policy, rather than falling back into the spirit of the 1960s and decoupling economic and environmental policy.
i should also like to thank the two rapporteurs, who have managed to put together a very good package in a difficult environment.
this means that - if the gothenburg strategy is taken seriously - it is not just about the economy, but that a balance is struck between economic development, social development and environmental development, all while taking into account the idea of equality.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities for the protection of the environment.
questions to commissioner byrne
question no 51 by mairead mcguinness (h-0287/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: global food safety standards at a time when food markets are becoming more globalised, a trend that will intensify with the growing role of the wto, many countries outside the eu do not have the same standards as the eu in terms of animal welfare, food safety and environmental legislation.
some have pointed out that the balance in the lisbon strategy, as presented here by the presidency and discussed in the european council, is not the right one, because too little attention would be paid to the other components, besides economic growth as such, namely the social component and the environmental component.
we must use this energy to take real steps in the field of data exchange and greater police and judicial cooperation.
as regards the relationship between the lisbon strategy and the environment and social framework, let me be clear: we want the highest possible environmental and social standards.
but if we want to have the highest possible environmental and social standards, then we also need the most competitive economy possible.
the question of competitiveness is not about making the greatest possible profits for individuals, but about making our economies strong enough to meet the great social goals of high environmental and social standards.
and the truth is that there is no agreement on how to organise the relationship between the highest possible environmental and social standards on the one hand and competitiveness on the other.
let me now turn to a subject that has been left out of the discussion: women and the environment.
we know that environmental degradation, particularly in the so-called third world, is also a risk factor for poverty.
sustainable development must therefore remain the top priority on the agenda.
you know, it's about the environmental impact on whales of underwater sonar systems, a military and civilian facility that has a very significant impact on fish life, particularly on the whale's hearing system.
the european parliament is not only responsible for environmental protection, but also for security and defence matters.
such a decision requires an environment of tolerance, dialogue, respect for religious freedoms and a tough stance in words and deeds against the impunity of war criminals.
last spring the north atlantic council ministerial meeting noted an 'improved security environment in bosnia and herzegovina'.
the approximately 260 million euros - which we strongly support - are to be used for environmental, transport, telecommunications, water and/or energy projects, for restructuring measures in rural areas, for example, for measures which particularly benefit small and mediumsized enterprises, and for bi-communal projects which build trust between ethnic groups.
my group does not criticise the lisbon strategy as it stands, not because it aims at more and better, social cohesion and sustainability, but because it is also exacerbating global problems.
instead of responsibly adjusting political priorities for social, environmental and global sustainability and submitting corresponding proposals to the council in spring 2005, we are now hearing: first, europe's competitiveness must be strengthened, the dynamics of labour markets must be increased and social security systems must be adapted to the challenges of competitiveness and demographic change.
whether his inadequate skills on energy issues will be sufficient for the tax department remains to be seen.
does it fit into such a climate to allow judicial decisions without any legal precision?
this is why the discussion on political priorities on the basis of european added value is about discussing with each other and talking about how the lisbon objectives of growth, employment and sustainability can be integrated more closely into the european budget than before.
the netherlands presidency has extensively consulted member states in order to prepare for a sustainable decision on friday that does justice to the interests of the european union and of turkey.
for the decision to be sustainable we need political and public support.
it will identify the main economic, social and environmental challenges that determine our success and set out priorities and solutions.
the ageing of our populations, the damage to the environment and the consequences of climate change, the need to adapt our economy to the competitive context of globalisation, the threats to peace and security.
fourthly, we must have policies that ensure a clean environment and a better quality of life for our citizens.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this leads to ruthless competition for the lowest bidder in social, environmental and occupational safety and health policy.
i would like to reiterate what mrs schierhuber said on the sugar market: does it make sense to allow sugar produced in a way that is harmful to the environment and to people in brazil to enter the european union while making life more and more difficult for our farmers?
the fact that the life programme and the environmental programme have not been destroyed is also, from a green point of view, of course, progress and important.
i hope that we will continue to work together in the coming years with the same energy to achieve a great deal for europe.
or is it not a contribution to lisbon and sustainability, especially when i look at the current decisions on the agricultural reform?
i would mention, for example, the shift of funding for natura 2000 away from the environment and towards structural policy.
question no 33 by mr caspary (h-0419/04) subject: the situation in the former yugoslavia subject: administrative fees for co2 allowances in the context of emissions tradingin germany, administrative fees of several hundred thousand euros are occasionally due for the application for co2 licences in the context of emissions trading.
commission madam president, the emissions trading directive does not contain any provisions on administrative charges.
we know that member states have different approaches to licensing fees under directive 96/61/ec on integrated pollution prevention and control.
i would also like to say that i am replacing mr dimas, who is excused because he is attending the conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change.
as i said, the review of the emissions trading directive will start at the beginning of 2005. it will be a major stakeholder survey and will cover a broad range of issues.
it is very difficult to estimate the costs to the environment, but the amount of money in our budget for 2003 was eur 1.7 million.
this means that appropriate public service obligations may be needed and imposed in the environment of these new technologies.
if we take the council's words that we want to promote sustainable development in the european union seriously, and if we look at the way it is actually implementing it, where it could be done, we see that the member states are not really showing the will.
many chemical companies in india and other parts of the world still produce with labour and environmental standards far below those in the european union or the united states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment.