it is not just pollution of the sea that is damaging to fisheries, but oil is often being dumped onshore and polluting our beaches.
illegal discharge into international waters must be punished by an international environmental court.
we would like the eu to take the initiative of setting up an international environmental court under the auspices of the un.
one concerns the waste.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the environment.
i consider the waste problem to be technically solved.
if anyone wants to incite against nuclear waste, they are welcome to do so, since we are all entitled to have an opinion.
i look forward to the opportunity to be allowed to export nuclear waste.
we are therefore satisfied that the waste can be exported to countries which will receive it, which meet the eu's safety requirements and where we are confident that inspection and the like will guarantee that the waste is under constant control.
we believe that the public service obligation can easily go hand in hand with liberalization and, for example, environmental requirements, if the political authority makes such demands.
what a waste of energy.
- the danish social democratic delegation has today voted in favour of a number of amendments which will tighten up the original proposals in terms of safety and the environment.
we have, however, decided not to vote for these reports as a whole, because we do not think that the proposals go far enough in terms of safety and environmental protection, and because we are generally opposed to the use of nuclear power.
it is a sustainable compromise that combines the democratic principle that the voters always have the last word with effectiveness in international decision-making.
- mr president, packaging waste is a considerable environmental problem.
it is good that targets are being set for recycling waste, but i would have liked to see higher targets.
all materials harmful to the environment and human health must be removed from the waste cycle and replaced by ecological alternatives.
there are now ecological alternatives.
the waste problem need not become bigger than it is.
the levy is intended to finance damage caused by the use of pvc and the conversion to ecological alternatives.
we are destroying the planet's biodiversity at the same rate that the dinosaurs were wiped out.
then we can avoid waste, greed and fraud.
when nothing happens, it is because the countries which should be putting in the effort and energy are either unwilling or unable to do so.
it's not sustainable.
structural reforms are about stopping the trend of ever-increasing taxes, providing flexible labour markets and keeping growth in public expenditure at a sustainable level.
unfortunately, we see too many examples of projects being approved without proper scrutiny, without cost-benefit analyses and without consideration of their environmental impact.
these substances persist in the environment for decades, accumulate in living organisms and travel over borders far from their sources.
the commission is proposing that the regulation be based on article 175(1) – environment – and article 95(1) – internal market.
the most important thing about the report and the agreement is that we have succeeded in changing the legal basis so that we now refer to the protection of the environment and public health instead of the protection of the internal market, which was the original aim of the commission.
it is an important victory for parliament in this particular case, but also more generally, because the commission tends to move environmental proposals more and more towards the internal market.
i hope that the next parliament will also insist that environmental matters should be treated as such.
we have also been given very ambitious targets in the regulation, so that accidental emissions must also be stopped, at least in the long term.
we have made provision for all stocks of pops to be destroyed and treated as waste.
we have introduced some general provisions to ensure that those who produce or store waste avoid that waste being contaminated with pops.
we stress that this is an exception which can only be used if it proves to be the best possible solution for the environment.
efforts should also be made to develop real ecological alternatives, which already exist or are in the process of being developed, to replace most chemicals.
the directive provides for preventive measures to protect the health and safety of workers, in particular against induced currents on the body, electric shocks and burns, and against the absorption of thermal energy generated by electromagnetic fields.
i think we should spend the energy to get some principles of political responsibility for commissioners in the hearings to be held when the new parliament meets.
we should not waste our energy discussing a matter which is now, so far as we are concerned, closed.
in january the taoiseach, mr ahern, said in this parliament – and we should remind ourselves of his words – that 'the world is a better and a safer place when the european union and the united states work together, when they pool their considerable energy and resources to achieve our shared goals based on our shared values.'
- june the motion for a resolution adopted today votes in favour of the report on maritime safety, since we naturally share all the sensible views on the environment and the fight against oil pollution.
priority will be given to investments in the field of infrastructure, transport - including links between the two communities - and environment projects such as waste disposal, sewerage and improvement of the water supply, water quality and the distribution system.
his attitudes and his past actions were proof that it simply was not sustainable.
a great deal of speaking time and energy has been spent on highlighting all the obstacles to turkey's membership of our european community.
fifth: we need to double the renewable energy targets by 2020 from 6% to 12%.
the legislation we work with is very often technically complicated environmental and business legislation, and therefore we need to have support for our work.
we now have a unique opportunity to think about what we want and how we want the future of the eu in the years from 2007 to 2013, and we must not waste this opportunity.