- the report by mr poignant, on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the transfer of cargo and passenger ships between community registers (com (2003) 478 - c5-0366/2003 - 2003/0180cod)) and the report by mr di fello lini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a framework for the fight against illegal pollution (com (2003) 92 - c5-0076/2003 - 2003/0037 (cod)) (com (2003) 478 - c5-036/2003 - 2003/0180cod))
(es) mr president, commissioner, as mr poignant rightly points out in his report, the commission put forward its proposal for a european ship register, called 'euros', as early as 1989, and the european parliament recently approved the sterckx report on the occasion of the prestige accident, calling for this possibility to be re-examined.
but i am concerned that the idea may become widespread that by solving the problem of illegal discharges we solve more than half the problem of marine pollution by oil, since the commission claims that most of this pollution is not due to accidents but to deliberate discharges.
the present one, ladies and gentlemen, is the three great questions which the citizens of my region, with all due right, still have and which have not received a european answer: compensation for those affected, environmental problems and the solution to the problem.
and the european union must set an example and lead the world in this effective prosecution of criminal practices against the marine environment.
with these reports, the european parliament is joining forces with the commission and contributing to making the european union safer at sea and better protecting the environment.
i thank parliament for the fact that this report is being discussed together with mr di lello's report and the framework decision, and i would also like to thank mr di lello for his work and support for the commission's proposals and for the determination, shared by all of us - parliament and the commission - to continue to fight against the scourge of pollution from ships, and in particular in the case of intentional discharges which - as i say in our text - account for more than 50% of the pollution of waters in the european union.
this gives us the impression that parliament is supporting us in the appeal brought by the commission against the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
i hope, mr president, that these two texts can be adopted and that the council can relax its position or at least the position of some of the member states, since there are other states of the union which fully support the position of parliament and the commission, and all these issues would culminate in the overall framework for strengthening maritime safety and combating pollution by dumping in european waters and coasts and exclusive economic zones and coasts, which is absolutely key to our policy over these years and which needs special attention.
i would like to point out, in connection with the comments made by some of the honourable members, that the commission will continue to work to make the legislative proposals a reality, and that if the countries do not transpose, do not incorporate in a timely manner into their national law the directives adopted here in the context of the fight against marine pollution and in favour of maritime safety, we will not hesitate to go to court to demand that the union states implement them.
the port facilities for collecting waste are also part of this struggle and are absolutely key to the implementation of these texts, which i hope parliament will support tomorrow.
on a more serious note, mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament and in particular the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the two rapporteurs, mr seppänen and mr vidal-quadras, for all the work we have done together and the results, which i consider very reasonable, on the commission's proposals for directives on safety at nuclear installations and the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste.
the discussions within the commission and in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy have shown a clear desire to contribute to the establishment of a community approach to nuclear safety in its broadest sense, i.e.
covering both the safety of installations and the management of waste.
it is particularly important that parliament should support the commission's initiative on the use of legally binding instruments to frame nuclear safety and radioactive waste management in the 25 states of the future enlarged europe.
this is the only way to achieve general, clear and stable legal rules which will give a future perspective to the investments of the electricity companies and which will at the same time provide reassurance and information to the public on the conditions under which nuclear energy is used within the european union.
as regards the proposal for a directive on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste, i take note of the proposals to amend the timetable for authorizing the establishment and putting into service of the final storage sites.
the permanent storage of high-level and long-lived radioactive waste in deep geological formations enjoys international technical consensus that it is currently the best solution to isolate radioactive waste from people and the environment for the long periods needed.
we are therefore guided solely by the desire to ensure safe and sustainable management of radioactive waste in order to ensure effective protection of citizens.
and also to deal with the problem of radioactive waste management in the nuclear sector, so that the various member states deal with this issue in a determined manner.
what i have also said, and i want to repeat it here, mr president, is that the objective of the kyoto protocol - the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - is something we have to continue to work on and keep our commitments, which is another matter.
i would also like to reiterate that if, by some unfortunate coincidence, and i say this clearly, the necessary and appropriate signatures and ratifications were not obtained - which may happen, because some countries such as the united states, australia and it seems that now some others, perhaps because of the statements made in russia - the community would have to consider whether, in a new framework, that is to say, without the kyoto protocol coming into force, the measures we have taken to date are the best way to achieve the desired results - the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions - or whether other possibilities should be considered.
i think it is pure rationality, as it is also - and it is scientifically proven - that, unfortunately, the acceleration of climate change is associated with the tremendously harmful effects of greenhouse gas emissions.
we must therefore continue to stand up, fight and work in europe to achieve an effective, real and sufficient reduction of these emissions.
unfortunately, the forecasts indicate that the next dramatic increases in global greenhouse gas emissions will not come from europe, but from other countries - and this has a positive aspect - that will reach levels of development higher than they have now and will therefore cease to be developing countries and become genuinely developed countries, something we should all want and support.
{es) mr president, this so-called nuclear package, which we are discussing tonight, has its origin in two stimuli: the first, enlargement of the union and the second, without a doubt, the green paper on security of energy supply.
however, since nuclear energy is unfortunately not only considered in strictly technical or scientific or practical terms, but is often imbued with ideology and too often with emotion, it was absolutely essential that europe should provide european citizens with a regulatory framework of a european dimension to reassure certain legitimate concerns.
the green paper states as one of its basic conclusions that for the future of energy in europe we must keep all options open and i stress the 'all'.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's energy policy is properly implemented.
the flexibility of the timetable for the establishment of a final storage facility for high-level waste, the avoidance of a double layer of european and national regulations overlapping and undermining efficiency, the public participation in this whole process and the most complete information to citizens have also been guaranteed and i would not want to forget to mention that in the directive on waste it was essential, in our opinion, that although deep geological burial in stable formations is the most universally accepted option today, the door should be open to other lines of research in the future.
it is a balance between, on the one hand, strengthening the integrity and unity of the executive function - and we know that this is primarily the commission's responsibility - and, on the other hand, the autonomy that these agencies must be able to enjoy in order to ensure that their action is sustainable.
this morning mr lamy also referred to the european union's flexibility in environmental matters.
i would like to ask you how far you intend to go with this flexibility, because there is no doubt that high environmental costs are one of the causes of the relocation of many community companies, but there is only one planet earth, and the regulations required to achieve environmental development at a planetary level must also be planetary.
we advocate the defence of sustainable and responsible fisheries as the very basis of their future.
i believe that the consensus reached in the committee on fisheries of this parliament, in which the rapporteur accepted amendments from all the political groups and proposed concrete commitments, which have been incorporated, as is the case with the support for the amendments of the green/efa group, shows our sincere interest in supporting fisheries which must be sustainable both ecologically, economically and socially.
we want exploitation and marketing to meet sustainable and environmental criteria and food safety principles and therefore we want to establish control mechanisms at the frontiers so that imported products have the same phytosanitary guarantees as those coming from our own fleet and industry.
question no 14 by avril doyle (h-0832/03) subject: fluorine in drinking waterthe failure of the commission to examine the latest scientific and other evidence concerning fluorine in drinking water through the commission's scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment as promised in may 2000 has now become a threat to the credibility of the new drinking water directive.
despite the adoption in june 2001 of the sixth environmental framework programme, which contains a specific section on pesticides, including specific measures to eliminate the risks associated with obsolete pesticides, three and a half years have now passed without any significant improvement in the situation.
and question no 23 by robert goodwill (h-0798/03): the serious problem of obsolete pesticides in ukraine affects the health of the population and the environment, and urgent action is needed to deal with the more than 20 000 tonnes in at least 5 000 different locations throughout the country.
in paragraph 74 of its resolution of 23 october 2003 on the proposal for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2004, parliament referred to the risks posed to the environment by persistent organic pollutants (pops) and, in particular, by obsolete pesticides, and called on the commission to make the additional effort necessary to provide sufficient financial resources under the existing instruments for the elimination of pops in ukraine.
we are aware of the threat to the environment and to consumer health that obsolete pesticides constitute in ukraine and aware, too, of the magnitude of the challenge that their elimination poses to that country.
in fact, environmental issues have not been selected by the government of ukraine as a key cooperation area with the european union.
as a signatory to the stockholm convention, ukraine is eligible for funding from the interim global environmental facility, which is the financing mechanism of the convention.
we have dedicated a lot of time and a great deal of money to that extraordinarily difficult and dangerous environmental issue.
i can assure the honourable member that we will continue to raise this issue and other environmental issues in the relevant subcommittee of the partnership and cooperation agreement.
it is reckoned that it would cost at least eur 100 million for the elimination of the problem i described earlier, and that is why, in our judgment, it is probably more helpful to turn to the global environmental facility in order to secure an objective which the honourable member is quite right to highlight.
the honourable member is entirely right to say that the issue we are discussing is of considerable concern to many groups in ukraine, and many of the environmental ngos which have begun to be active.
does it believe that the signing of the agreement in the near future will contribute to regional development, the creation of a positive climate of negotiation in the israeli-arab conflict and the democratization of syria?
it is clear, mr president, that we must return to the path of sustainable growth and job creation.
- question no 4 by paulo casaca (h-0809/03):on: financing of the natura 2000 network as part of its right of initiative, the commission has presented a proposal for a regulation amending the regulation on the financial instrument for the environment (life) (com (2003) 0402/final).
the commission recently made a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1655/2000 concerning the financial instrument for the environment – life – mainly in two aspects.
on 22 december 2003 the council held an exchange of views on this second aspect and on the options for financing the eu's environmental policies from 2007 onwards.
in addition, the council adopted conclusions on biodiversity in which it looked forward to the submission of the forthcoming commission communication on financing natura 2000. when received, this will provide a further opportunity for discussions on this very important issue.
does it believe that the signing of the agreement in the near future will contribute to regional development, the creation of a positive climate of negotiation in the israeli-arab conflict and the democratization of syria?
i also think it is appropriate to 'horizontalise' policies such as health and safety at work, equality for women and non-discrimination, as our charter of fundamental rights stipulates in articles 20 and 21. mr president, we must not forget lifelong learning, because, as the rapporteur says, a service sector with low wages means a low level of quality, skills and productivity, and this represents a loss of the economy's capacity to generate innovation, sustainable wealth and social cohesion.
these situations sometimes involve an externalized conflict and sometimes they originate or maintain a latent conflict, with repercussions on the person psychologically harassed, on his family and on his environment.
it was found that this required various economic reforms, as well as strengthening research and social cohesion, but in almost all member states we are seeing continuing examples of relocation of companies whose employers, generally multinational, seek better profit margins on the basis of lower manufacturing costs of products, setting up their industries in countries with cheaper labour and sometimes with less environmental controls.
in the face of this unstoppable dynamic due to globalisation, our reaction cannot be to try to compete to match our costs to those offered by less developed countries, on the basis of resignations by our workforce or our environmental demands.
together with the european space agency, the egnos programme, and hopefully iter too, are the spearhead for europe to be present in the front group, facing the most important challenges that humanity will face in this 21st century, namely the use of our atmosphere and outer space in a sustainable and nature-friendly way.
and also that our galileo transponders be used to house the existing marine rescue systems and other needs of the transport, telecommunications, environmental, agricultural, fisheries and, above all, people sectors.
- the next item is the report (a5-0006/2004) by mr corbey, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste (pe-cons 3697/2003 - c5-0629/2003 - 2001/0291 (cod)).
this agreement has not been easy because, in addition to the long and contentious debates we have had in the committee on the environment, we have encountered additional legal problems arising from the court of justice's judgment on what is meant by energy revalorisation.
reuse, recycling and energy recovery are three options for waste management.
each has its advantages and disadvantages, but i think we should support all three because of what they have in common: it is always better to have any of them than to dump waste in landfills.
as regards the concept of prevention, i believe that, without leaving it aside, we must be flexible, especially in the case of the agri-food industry which - let us not forget - is the largest user of packaging, because it must combine environmental objectives with the strictest food safety criteria.
finally, i hope that the problems arising from the vague definition of what constitutes energy recovery after the judgment will be resolved urgently for the good of all.
the first is the procedure for adopting a deadline for accession states, and the second is the question of the consequences of the recent court judgment on energy recovery.
on the consequences of the court judgment the commission realises that not everybody is happy with the solution of transforming the recovery target into a target for recovery and incineration at waste incineration plants with energy recovery.
this must be done, not only for packaging, but also for all waste.
therefore the commission thinks that we need to review the status of recovery in the waste framework directive.
the ongoing debate on the thematic strategy on waste prevention and recycling will be an important input to such a view.
these include poverty reduction, weapons of mass destruction, failed states, international crime, terrorism, climate change.
whether we are looking at the role of the international atomic energy agency in checking the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, or whether we are looking at global targets for poverty reduction and sustainable development, i hardly need to underline the importance of the so-called soft issues for the wider security agenda.
in addition, research can help to enable farmers to meet the requirements of what we call cross-compliance and, more importantly, to provide a scientific basis for what is meant by good agricultural and environmental practice or positive status.
the sustainability of agriculture and rural development clearly needs to be a priority in research policy too.
i also share the view that social and environmental research must be strengthened for the sustainable development of rural areas and that research is needed that can particularly support the role of women in rural development, as you mentioned earlier, mr graefe zu baringdorf.
it is also very important that this perspective be formulated in the preparation of the seventh framework programme for research, which considers research on sustainable agriculture and rural development.
the souchet report is coherent, sound, reasonable and combines the defence of sustainable and responsible fishing for northern hake with the social and economic aspects of the fisheries sector.
we congratulate mr souchet once again and hope that with this report, which we will be voting on tomorrow, we have taken a very important step in supporting sustainable fishing and the fisheries sector.
(es) mr president, on 27 june 2003 the commission published a new proposal with the aim of ensuring the sustainable recovery of the northern hake population and its reduction within what is considered a safe biological limit, a precautionary biomass level of 165 000 tonnes.
instead of a recovery plan, a management plan of the type provided for in article 6 of regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 would be more appropriate, in compatibility and also consistent with the biological and environmental component on the one hand and the socioeconomic component on the other, within the new common fisheries policy.
in any case, i think we should welcome the work of the commission and the new budget headings: sustainable development, putting people at the centre of our project and promoting more visible and effective external action by the european union.
i would also like to point out, in addition to my first answer, that we have been informed of the fairly recent creation by greece of an environmental inspectorate.
however, as i myself mentioned in my first reply, we are, under the council directive on urban waste water treatment, able, if i may say so, to ask for information on the operation of all sewage treatment plants.
is the commission aware that on 14 january this year the spanish minister for the environment, elvira rodríguez, announced that the works on this project would be notified in february 2004?
what is the commission's position on this and what does it intend to do in this respect, given that it has not yet decided whether the project is sustainable or not?
- mr president, mr ferrández lezaun asks me a question which reminds me of the debate we recently had with mrs wallström in the committee on the environment on this major issue of the environment.
so if, as i said the other day before the committee on the environment, the commission were to take a negative decision on any part of the overall project after examining the project as part of a global reflection on the jewish people, the member state would have to bear the costs alone.
you know the serious social and possibly environmental problems in spain.
we had a fairly frank, fairly constructive debate on this subject the other day before the committee on the environment, and i gave a fairly firm answer, in agreement with mrs wallström.
the implementation of these parts of the project must comply with environmental regulations.
by starting work very early, the spanish authorities are taking responsibility for possible actions before the court of justice, for example for non-compliance with current environmental regulations.
(es) i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for the clarity with which he has answered, as he did at the environment committee meeting to a similar question from mr ferrández.
we must know that this project is complex and that we must examine it properly in the light of community environmental legislation, in the light of the rules and, finally, in the light of this rather original analysis which we want to carry out in general, which i believe the spanish authorities have finally understood, whereas initially it was more a matter of getting approval for each project.
this is a major ecological project and we will therefore proceed seriously, which should allow us to give our overall assessment of this project for the waters of the ebro in the coming summer.
before i turn to the specific subject of mr ferrández's question and his answer, i should like to say that i come from the valencian country, from the banks of the júcar river, which is dying today because a rigorous environmental impact study has not been carried out.
the socioeconomic effect and the destruction and deterioration of the environment would therefore be less damaging if this parliament today sent a note to the spanish government saying that it should suspend the project on a precautionary basis until it is examined by this parliament.
we went quite far in stating that, given the scale of this project, all its ecological, socioeconomic and technical dimensions, we had decided to make an overall assessment.
eta and its environment limit our freedom and seriously undermine the rule of law.
in october 2003 the council welcomed the recent steps taken by the government of eritrea to restore a climate of general communication and to develop a meaningful political dialogue with the union.
a famous political leader in my own country once said that a rising tide lifts all boats, in other words, that the best answer to poverty and the best answer to unemployment is to create jobs and to create the appropriate economic environment.
as a lecturer for many years in one of our universities in ireland, i said that economic progress is the most delicate of all flowers and has to be nurtured by a very specific eco-environment which is especially friendly to its own needs.
private investment in any troubled region is very obviously determined by the general climate.
the aim must be to establish a sustainable private sector which can create employment because that is the only hope for the region.
the european agency for reconstruction continues to finance and manage sustainable reconstruction and development programmes in kosovo.
if there is compliance with all of this it will build the type of confidence that is necessary if a sustainable economic development is to take place.
sustainable economic development will only take place if and when the conditions for investment are adjudicated to be appropriate by private enterprise and by private investors.
we agree to extend the commission's powers so that it can provide support in the areas of marine pollution - accidental or deliberate - and civil protection, and systematic inspections of ship safety systems and port facilities.
firstly, it must have a marine disaster plan covering all coasts from gibraltar to russia, which can be broken down as appropriate between the atlantic ocean, the mediterranean, the baltic, the north sea, etc., including plans for the treatment of waste resulting from fuel oil collection and cleaning operations.
and of course it should have qualified staff to check and verify the effectiveness of control procedures and the application of safety and pollution prevention standards in european ports and on vessels sailing in community waters, not just those that call at our shores.
(es) mr president, the sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the galician coast has revealed, among many other things, the lack of coordination between the member states in the fight against pollution.
the commission is now proposing to amend the recently adopted regulation establishing the european maritime safety agency, set up in the wake of the erika disaster, so that it can provide support not only in the field of marine pollution but also in the field of protection against illegal acts.
as far as pollution is concerned, the proposal seems to me a bit confusing.
the rapporteur's amendments specify that the primary responsibility for pollution lies with the coastal states, which must have their own resources - which some of us think is logical - and that the agency's actions will only be undertaken on request, in compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
in any case, i think we all agree on the importance of what we are discussing today, which is the entry into force of the 2003 protocol to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage.
the funds for compensation for the victims of the black tide will be increased by more than five times, which is absolutely necessary, because - as was clear from accidents such as the prestige and erika - the funds available through the international fund for pollution prevention were not sufficient.
(es) mr president, madam commissioner, in relation to this matter of the 2003 protocol supplementing the international oil pollution compensation fund of 1992, which is formally an intergovernmental organisation, the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, which i represent as rapporteur, has expressed its opinion in favour of adopting the proposal for a council decision authorising member states to sign, ratify or accede to the said protocol.
this fipol 2003 protocol extends to 750 million special drawing rights - equivalent to some eur 930 million at current exchange rates - the maximum amount of the financial resources added up under the various international conventions, which are contributed by shipowners and companies receiving oil transported by sea, to compensate for environmental disasters and victims of accidental spills.
we cannot continue to operate with obsolete instruments from earlier times, when states acted in defence of the national interest, when we are faced with a collective interest, such as the preservation of the environment throughout the european union.
it is worth recalling our principles, which are those of a renewed european social model, based on shared and common values, with an economic strategy of solidarity and sustainable development, but this catalogue of good intentions must be put into practice, because i believe that in all our languages there is a common aphorism, namely that 'hell is paved with good intentions', and it is not enough to proclaim and repeat them every year, but as we have seen today, especially by the commission, a critical analysis of how the lisbon strategy is developing is necessary.
i believe that one of the solutions lies precisely in the widespread introduction of cleaner technologies that can address the reduction of polluting emissions.
finally, i would also like to refer, in connection with the above, to the absolute need to promote much more actively this efficient use of natural resources, simply because the disconnection between economic growth and increased use of resources is an indispensable condition for the continuation of sustainable growth and, in short, the reality of that europe of knowledge, world leader in competitiveness and full employment, which we all want.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0017/2004) by mr frahm, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on persistent organic pollutants and amending directive 79/117/eec and directive 96/59/ec (com (2003) 333 - c5-0273/2003 - 2003/0119 (cod)).
i think that, frankly, it would not be the best way to go about confronting the interests of the internal market and those of the protection of the environment or the health of citizens.
i think that we must practice the integrated and complementary approach, i think that we must really take into account when we talk about the environment also the interests of the internal market and the possible difficulties that this may entail and i think that when we talk about the internal market we must take into account environmental interests.
that is sustainable development, that is the integration of the environment, the economy and employment and that is precisely what has been advocated in the proposal for the topics to be discussed at the next council in the spring of this year.
in my view, if we do not really believe in these three pillars of sustainable development in an integrated way, together, and at the same level and with the same weight in the considerations we make, we are making political statements for our summits and our communication as community institutions, which are totally wrong and false to the citizens.
it was not approved because there was a major problem with regard to the waste from the cop and especially the alternative methods for its destruction.
so even if i do not entirely agree with her in making environmental aspects prevail over all others, but in achieving that balance, which is really what we are advocating from the european union and from the member states, i do think this is a good job, i do think she has had difficulties in reaching agreements on issues such as waste or the specific exemption for the manufacture of dicofol, a substance accepted under very specific restrictions, in a very specific industrial process and which is carried out in a way that is absolutely isolated from the environment and confined.
i also think that the review clause for the commission to review this particular situation with dicofol at the end of 2008 is a good one and i believe that what is being done is to apply the precautionary principle once again in a reasonable way, making industrial activity really compatible with the utmost protection of the environment and the safety of citizens.
i think that we should emphasize what i said earlier: compatibility is important and it is important that we never lose the reference point for sustainable development as that stool with three legs: economy, environment and employment.
the fact that these bans or restrictions are introduced in order to protect human health or the environment does not mean that these provisions cannot be adopted on the basis of article 95. article 95(3) states clearly that the commission may propose legislation concerning health or environmental protection based on article 95(1) if these measures have any impact on the functioning of the internal market.
on the point of waste management, which mrs frahm, mrs garcía-orcoyen tormo and mrs doyle mentioned, it is important to note that the amended proposal clearly stipulates that for waste, destruction or irreversible transformation is a main rule, whereas other waste management operations can be allowed only in specific, clearly-defined cases.
especially in regard to the high-content pops waste, the commission points out that permanent storage or other operations can only be allowed if destruction of the pop content is not the environmentally-preferable option.
(es) mr president, i would like to inform this house that a document from the european commission's directorate-general for the environment on the spanish government's proposed national hydrological plan and its financing by the european union has appeared in the media in spain this past week.
mr president, the commission's communication of june 2002 on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment sets out the comprehensive action plan on which the commission work on better regulation has been progressing over the last 18 months.
improving the regulatory environment to obtain concrete benefits for operators and citizens is a joint responsibility of the european institutions and the member states.
when launching its action plan 'simplifying and improving the regulatory environment', the commission therefore also called on the other institutions and the member states to contribute to the achievement of the common objectives.
2004 will be the second transitional year during which this framework will be further consolidated and improved, while keeping a balanced assessment of economic, social and environmental impacts.
to a certain extent, to create that climate of mutual confidence, we need a minimum degree of harmonisation or at least approximation of penal law, including procedural guarantees.
when will the commission state its position on the approval of the council's position in the light of the increasingly clear evidence that the said regulation is in breach of the fundamental principles of the peoples and the principles of the environment as laid down in the treaty?
in view of the fact that the new cap reform is in fact a liquidation of the previous stage - and when it is liquidated, it is done according to the calculation of 'real realities', not that of outdated realities - and in view of the fact that during the whole of that stage which we are now liquidating, spain was comparatively penalized - and this is obviously demonstrable - by a mismatch in its production reality and, commissioner, recalling also that the spanish olive grove welcomed you very much always hoping that you would understand its reality and its potential in terms of health and environmental protection, i ask you: do you not envisage the possibility of reflecting the productive reality we have in the national budget?
but you must also be aware that the current price level is simply not sustainable for many reasons.
question to the commission question no 39 by marie anne isler béguin (h-0065/04) subject: negative human and economic consequences of pollution in the enlarged union a study published by the world health organization in september 2000 found that air pollution causes 31,700 deaths, 500,000 asthma cases, and 25,000 bronchitis cases each year in france alone, and contributes 1.7% of the gross national product.
does this pollution-related deterioration of living conditions (health and life expectancy) in an eu of 27 member states not prompt the commission to speed up an epidemiological study of it in order to fully clarify the lethal impact (diseases and life expectancy) and economic costs of different types of pollution, especially in the future when combined with the effects of climate warming?
i am very pleased about this question, which gives me the opportunity to delve a little deeper into our message on the environment and health.
nor is it easy to put a price tag on the health problems resulting from environmental pollution.
i think that the world health organization has started a very important work to do just that, to show that environmental pollution has a very high price for society and that health problems in society also have a very high price.
we will continue to argue that the cost benefits are so great that it is actually profitable for both business and society to invest in environmental measures that also lead to fewer health problems.
i should also explain that our environment and health strategy is called 'scale', which stands for science, children, awareness-raising, legislation and evaluation.
has the commission received the environmental impact study which the spanish authorities promised to send at the end of january at their meeting on 4 december 2003?
if not, does the commission not consider that it is necessary to contact the court of justice now (the reasoned opinion was published in april 2003) in order to ensure that the spanish government and the region of castilla y leon, which has also been sued in this connection before the spanish courts, agree to draw up a plan for a pipeline network that is not harmful to the environment?
these include a full environmental assessment in order properly to identify the effects of the projects on the conservation values of the affected site; if these are considered significant, alternatives will have to be examined.
the spanish authorities explain that the necessary nature assessments will not be ready for ten months and that the resulting modified project will be subject to a full impact assessment procedure, in compliance with the provisions of directive 85/337/eec on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
what particularly concerns environmental groups in ireland are the many cases where the commission has found in its reasoned opinion that directives have not been complied with but has not taken any subsequent legal action.
- question no 43, by james (jim) fitzsimons (h-0089/04):about: un conference on climate changein a un report of 11 december 2003 on climate change and human health, it is stated that climate change affects human health, that in 2000 it caused 2.4% of the world's cases of diarrhoea, 2% of the world's cases of malaria and that it caused 150,000 deaths worldwide in 2000. the un study adds that they affect weather patterns and air pollution and are responsible for poisoning water and food.
i appreciate that the world health organization is now raising awareness as regards climate-change impacts on human health, in a cooperative effort with the united nations environment programme and the world meteorological organization.
the commission can support the general recommendations and conclusions of this world health organization report on climate change and human health because, for instance, it focuses on the precautionary principle and the principle of sustainable development.
the largest benefits of climate policies for human health can be expected from the reduction in the concentrations of ozone and particles.
as climate policies in general reduce fossil fuel use, they also reduce related particulate emissions.
thus, emissions-control strategies that simultaneously address air pollutants and greenhouse gases lead to a more efficient use of resources at all scales, also addressing human health concerns.
the world health organization report confirms earlier statements that there are still many knowledge gaps involving likely future patterns of exposure to climatic environmental changes and the vulnerability and adaptability of physical, ecological and social systems as regards such climate change.
therefore, we need better information to establish further the links between the pollutants and health effects, with a view to improving our climate change and health policies.
the action plan on which we are presently working as a follow-up to the environment and health strategy is designed to integrate this information.
while the action plan focuses on a set of defined exposures and diseases in its first phase, broader issues, including those related to the health impacts of climate change, can be taken up in future phases.
moreover, the forthcoming thematic strategic on the urban environment, to be adopted by june 2005, and for which an interim communication is presently under discussion within the commission, should also help local authorities and member states to improve the environmental performance of cities.
this in turn would also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and make cities healthier places to live.
under the last research framework programme, the ccashh project – climate change and adaptation strategies for human health in europe – was funded to assess the health impacts of climate change.
mr commissioner, the current cotton reform was launched in 2001 and you now intend to make another reform without any environmental impact study, as we shall see, forgetting also that your purpose is completely unrelated to the policy indicated in the protocols annexed to the acts of accession of greece, spain and portugal, which include the objective of supporting cotton production in the producing areas.
is it not true, commissioner, that in the environmental impact study you only take the arguments of the health sectors, but not the experts?
olive groves in marginal regions of the european union, which play an important socioeconomic and environmental role, should also be taken into account, as should olive groves from 1998 which did not enter production during the reference period.
for example, amendments nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11 (part one), 12 (part two), 16 and 17; others can be accepted with some wording changes, such as amendments nos 10 (part one and part two) and 40 concerning the reference to environmental analyses; it is clear that any project financed by the commission must comply with existing environmental legislation; that is an obligation.
this will depend in the end on the will of the country concerned and on the routes which can be defined in the light of environmental criteria of all kinds.
the three big goals to be achieved are obviously: universal access regardless of one's economic situation, quality health care and the financial sustainability of health systems in the long term.
that is to say, there is already a 1999 european parliament resolution on the environmental impact of military technology and there are also, with regard to this specific subject, a couple of written questions to the commission, the first by mr sturdy and answered by mr busquin, who pointed out that no assistance had been requested for an investigation of the subject, and the second, later, by mrs caroline lucas, answered by commissioner wallström, on the impact of low frequency sonar.
delivering nothing after a year of negotiations does not meet the credibility test, and believe me, there are voices in washington only too ready to say to secretary ridge 'we told you that negotiating with these people is a waste of time'.
this proposal is part of the package of rules designed to promote the improvement of the working environment, because, according to article 31 of the charter of fundamental rights, entitled 'fair and equitable working conditions', every worker has the right to work in conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity.
if this report is adopted and the council accepts the parliament's amendments, the directive will be the result of a form of social dialogue, a political dialogue, in this case, because of the shared commitment of the ppe-de group and the pse parliamentary group, which, in the committee on employment and social affairs, understood that, through this directive, we could improve the working environment of european workers.
it implies impoverishment, it implies chains, and it goes against the ideas of sustainability, which is adapting to reality and making things viable.
- the next item is the report (a5-0172/2004) by mr goodwill, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on certain fluorinated greenhouse gases (com (2003) 492 - c5-0397/2003 - 2003/0189 (cod)).
an important part of this proposal is the reporting system, which will enable the commission to check the accuracy of emissions reported to the un convention on climate change and to support possible further action.
on the sensitive issue of the phase-out of the fluorinated gases in mobile air conditioning in vehicles, the commission notes with interest the amendments to ban fluorinated gases, essentially hfc134a in mobile air conditioning in new vehicle models from 1 january 2009, and that a ban should apply to all new vehicles from 1 january 2014. the commission prefers to remain with its overall position on mobile air conditioning, given other amendments that reject the quota system and ban all fluorinated gases used in mobile air conditioning with a global warming potential over 50, rather than 150, as proposed by the commission.
the commission believes that while the environmental objective of reducing emissions of fluorinated gases is paramount, the main thrust of the proposal is more relevant to the functioning of the internal market and article 95. in conclusion, i should like to underline that the commission supports many of the amendments proposed for the first reading, and parliament, by acting so quickly, sends an important message to the council that there is now a need for increased focus on this proposal with the aim of reaching a final conclusion as quickly as possible.
(the sitting was suspended at 6.40 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- the next item is the report (a5-0193/2004) by mr paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on a european strategy for the environment and health.
- a5-0190/2004 by mr korhola, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation applying the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to the institutions and bodies of the european community;
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i want you to know that we support the commission's proposal and we acknowledge your efforts to adapt this convention to the existing mechanisms available to the member states and the community institutions to ensure the legitimate right to information and to environmental justice.
i therefore propose that the line adopted by the committee on the environment, and which i myself proposed, be followed on the basis of a broader concept of a 'authorised entity', whereby any person or group affected by an environmental issue could have a right to justice.
this, together with the amendment to the definition of 'public' which we also approved in the committee on the environment, would allow us to guarantee the universality of the law recognised in aarhus and at the same time to organise the system of access to justice in an appropriate way.
mr president, i cannot help thinking that this is also a matter of the status of environmental issues.
just imagine replacing the words 'environmental legislation' with 'economic legislation' or anything else, and you would consider it absolutely natural that you have access to justice; that you allow these groups access to justice or a say on these issues.
most of what we think would come naturally will also have to be introduced for the environmental issues.
the commission proposes to give legal standing to recognised environmental organisations.
that follows from how environmental issues are defined here: what the århus convention is all about and what access to justice is all about in this field.
it is restricted to environmental issues and it is clearly defined.
this is fully in line with a convention that gives a prominent position to environmental ngos as advocating the interests of the environment, because on the environment we do not have a vested interest.
we will have to heed those voices that take on the concerns of the environment.
much as i respect mrs thors, it is not always the fishermen who represent the environmental concerns when it comes to protecting the baltic sea, so perhaps that is not the best of examples.
even though i understand and sympathise with your desire to maximise the benefits to the public of this proposal, i consider that amendments which propose expanding legal standing to organisations which are not primarily or regularly working in the field of the environment add requirements which are arbitrary or imprecise.
these requirements proposed under the regulation cover not only community institutions but all bodies that exercise public functions under the treaties, also comprising the agencies, offices or bodies such as the european investment bank, to the extent that their activities are relevant to environmental matters as dealt with by the convention.
here again, the commission’s proposal has made use of the flexibility parties are allowed under the århus convention, notably in terms of organising the public participation processes and establishing criteria for access to justice in case of impairments of environmental law.
- the next item is the report (a5-0139/2004) by mr manders, on behalf of the european parliament's delegation to the conciliation committee, on the conciliation committee's joint text for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (pe-cons 3622/2004 - c5-0079/2004 - 2002/0021 (cod)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0177/2004) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries.
first of all, i would like to mention the definition of waste.
there is no specific definition of waste from extractive industries in this proposal, but the general definition given for waste in the framework directive 75/442/eec if waste is recovered.
this does not prevent such waste from being reused for a useful purpose, for example in building materials.
amendment no 15 on article 2 (3) proposes that materials such as uncontaminated feedstock and waste from exploration should be subject to the limited requirements of this article.
the commission can support this approach as it increases legal certainty and also improves environmental security measures.
we also support the amendment that inert waste facilities should also be covered by the provisions on major accidents.
amendment no 15 proposes that the limited requirements of article 2 (3) should cover non-hazardous waste.
it is necessary to deal with the heavy burden of the past caused by closed and abandoned waste facilities.
the development of inventories to identify the worst sources of pollution is a major step towards solving this problem.
a transitional period shall be granted to waste facilities which have obtained authorisation before the entry into force of this directive.
the commission considers this unnecessary as both the provisions of eu water legislation and the general requirements of the waste framework directive are applicable.
amendments nos 29 and 35 emphasise the need for proper management of the closure and after-treatment of waste facilities.
that's not sustainable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to say, mr president, that on the constitutional issue i do not share the remarks made this morning in the house, according to which the change of government in spain is at the origin of the new climate that has been created.
this new climate has been created precisely as a result of the attitude adopted by the member states - including the most recalcitrant ones - in the light of the new circumstances, and i would like to stress that spain has always been ready to negotiate to make its conditions more flexible.
it is important to say, mr president, that not only in the face of the terrorist phenomenon but also in the face of the crisis of the stability pact, the appreciation of the euro and the challenges, challenges and opportunities presented by enlargement, the climate in the european union at the moment is not the most optimistic.
- the next item is the report (a5-0176/2004) by mr florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the communication from the commission entitled 'towards a thematic strategy for waste prevention and recycling'.
in the sixth environmental action programme the european union set out a vision integrating resource, product and waste policies, and now with the development of the thematic strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste we are designing the concrete policy which will take the next step towards turning this vision into reality.
the first challenge ahead of us is for waste policy to adapt to enlargement and the increased diversity of the european union.
we must set common rules guaranteeing a high level of environmental protection for all facilities in the european waste recovery market.
this means waste legislation must take more of a framework approach.
the second challenge we are facing lies in defining the environmental objective of waste policy.
we need to accurately target environmental impacts and look at how waste prevention, re-use and increased recycling can best reduce this impact.
however, these wastes represent small fractions of total waste flows, and we have outlined in the communication ways to promote recycling more generally.
it rightly stresses the general objective of reducing environmental impacts of waste and the primary role waste prevention should play.
however, we must accept that there is no miraculous instrument that can stop waste at source.
i welcome the support given to developing common standards for waste management facilities and promoting the use of economic instruments such as landfill taxes.
the waste flows covered are too small, and implementation is complex.
we need to focus on the most significant environmental impacts of waste, and adopt framework actions to tackle them.
{es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this commission communication is a first step in the thematic strategy which includes both waste prevention and recycling.
we recognise the need to reduce the amount of waste produced and to achieve the highest possible rates of material reuse, and that all waste treatment options are valid, provided they are sustainable.
recycling 100 per cent of waste is very desirable, but impossible.
the imposition of mandatory targets, especially in the case of prevention, and of fees and taxes can have counterproductive effects on waste management.
there are already functioning waste markets that manage large quantities efficiently.
on the other hand, industrial waste is usually easier to recycle and we therefore ask the commission to take this into account and to include in its proposal the separate collection of recyclable material from industry.
we also urge the commission to evaluate the consultation procedure carried out on the definition of 'waste', publishing its results and presenting a response on the definition of this concept and other collateral concepts such as the recovery of waste.
commissioner, we are looking forward to the waste strategy and we will formulate our proposals for improvement, always thinking of the best for the environment and our citizens.
mr president, first a word on waste definition.
in its communication the commission stated that it would consider changes to waste definition if the need for such changes was demonstrated, and also that the alternative proposal guarantees a high level of environmental protection.
the commission also stressed that the debate on waste definition should focus on easing the application of the definition of waste.
it would seem useful to mitigate the impact of the definition of waste in some circumstances, and this may involve changes to the waste framework directive.
turning to waste prevention, since it has been discussed, and the subject of setting targets for waste prevention.
this is a complex issue, and the potential for waste prevention will vary; it depends on economic growth and also the maturity of different industrial production processes.
eu legislation contains the seeds of mandatory waste prevention plans, because under the waste framework directive member states must draw up waste management plans which promote, inter alia, waste prevention.
on recycling and recovery: in general, but not always, recycling is environmentally more favourable than energy recovery.
for example, low quality of recycling, a high proportion of recovered energy or highly mixed waste can influence environmental performance.
- the next item is the commission statement on the international conference on renewable energy (bonn, june 2004).
mr president, the plan of implementation agreed in johannesburg during the world summit on sustainable development in 2002 put a strong emphasis on renewable energy.
it stresses the need to substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the total world energy supply.
in answer to this challenge, the european community and the member states launched, during the world summit in johannesburg, the so-called 'johannesburg renewable energy coalition', inviting all countries of the world to joint it.
the commission intends to present three initiatives at the bonn conference: first, a communication assessing the state of development of renewable energy in the european union.
the communication takes as its starting point the need to address the union's growing dependence on energy imports – mainly oil and fossil fuels from a few areas of the world – and the need to tackle climate change.
the promotion of renewable energy has an important part to play in both those areas.
the communication will evaluate progress made by member states under the directive on electricity from renewable energy sources.
it will report that all member states have adopted national targets for the share of electricity production from renewable energy sources.
if member states achieve their national targets, the share of electricity from renewable energy sources in the eu of 15 should come close to the 22% target of the directive, compared to 14% in 2001. however, national policies and measures currently in place will probably achieve only half of the progress necessary, bringing the renewable energy share in electricity production only up to between 18% and 19% in 2010. that is a source of concern.
as regards overall energy consumption, the union has, since 1997, been working towards the target of a 12% share of renewable energy.
since that date, in 2001 the community adopted new legislation in the field of renewable energy and energy efficiency, a directive on electricity from renewable energy sources –covering biofuels, energy performance of buildings, co-generation, etc.
the european parliament and the council are examining further proposals on eco-design requirements, energy efficiency and energy services.
however, even if this framework legislation is fully transposed and implemented, the share of renewable energy should still only reach 10% in 2010. there will be a need for further action.
through the secretariat of the johannesburg renewable energy coalition we have launched two key initiatives to support, in particular, the developing country members of the coalition.
we are developing a global on-line renewable energy policy and measures data base, including reported targets jointly with the renewable energy team of the international energy agency.
i should like to clarify some issues about the patient capital initiative, which originates from the commitments made by the european union to identify and bridge financing gaps and obstacles with respect to renewable energy.
as regards the bonn conference, the european preparatory conference on renewable energy was held in january this year.
that conference considered that the use of overall targets for renewable energy should be extended beyond 2010. a number of technical studies suggest that a target of at least 20% of gross domestic consumption from renewable energy in 2020 is economically feasible and achievable for the eu of 25, provided that the right policy environment is created.
such a signal is critical if the eu wants to maintain its leadership role within the coalition for renewable energy and in the field of global sustainable development in general.
the targets set for 2020 are also necessary to give certainty to the fledgling renewable energy industry within the eu and, in particular, to the financial sector.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the international conference on renewable energy and this resolution, which we are going to vote on next, respond to a need and to a general concern for the increase of clean and sustainable energy over time.
three years ago this parliament passed the directive on the promotion of renewable sources of electricity and since then there has been a dramatic increase in the use of electricity sources.
i believe that from now on we will have to achieve greater efficiency which will help to manage energy resources better.
in this respect, i believe that the directives on energy efficiency in buildings and cogeneration will play an important role, as will the new smart energy plan for europe.
i would like to see the 20% mentioned in the proposed resolution reached, but the way to achieve this is undoubtedly through improving energy efficiency.
the consumption of transport fuels generates emissions of polluting gases, the most immediate effects of which are felt in large urban agglomerations.
the directive on the promotion of biofuels, adopted last year, is therefore another of the commissioner de palacio's commitments to renewable energy to reduce emissions into the atmosphere.
the commission has already opened a wide-ranging debate on this energy carrier which will enable us to use means of transport without emissions.
the current legislature is coming to an end, but i am sure that hydrogen will be one of the great topics of debate in the coming months and all these initiatives can contribute to achieving the most ambitious targets for renewable energy and, ultimately, for the environment.
on the day when opec has just approved a reduction in oil production, i would like to end by asking the member states to show sufficient willingness to promote these renewable technologies which do not pollute and which come from resources which nature gives us in abundance, because this will be to the benefit of all.
i both felt and shared the disappointment felt, above all, by the eu delegation, that we were not getting any further with the establishment of a global target for renewable energy.
i myself have been very involved in bringing together those who want to work with clear targets and dates for how we are going to achieve a greater share of renewable energy.
in particular, we will be able to share experience and knowledge on how best to promote the development of renewable energy through policy means.
in today's debate we have heard some of the best arguments for why this is necessary, including the argument on climate change.
claude turmes listed all our compelling arguments for investing in renewable energy.
this is because most of these countries, especially the poorest, are already affected by climate change.
they realize that the effects of climate change will only get worse if we don't address the problem now.
around the world, there is a growing recognition that the threat of climate change is so great that we need to take action now.
the claim that renewable energy is likely to become more expensive is incorrect.
it will be more profitable to invest in renewable energy.
we should also be clear that the renewable energy market already represents a great economic value.
wind energy alone has increased from 5 gw (gigawatt) in 1997 to 27 gw in 2003. there is a huge development happening in this sector.
we will ensure that we continue to be a world leader in renewable energy.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- the next item is the report (a5-0260/2004) by mr sturdy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on maximum residue levels of pesticides in plant and animal products (com (2003) 117 - c5-0108/2003 - 2003/0052 (cod)).
these proposals will be submitted as part of a package together with our proposals on the sustainable use of pesticides.
a first-reading agreement reaffirms the high priority that the european union gives to taking concrete action to tackle climate change.
it will provide an important signal to our partners, in particular developing countries and economies in transition, including russia, of our continuing support for the kyoto protocol and our firm intention to tackle climate change multilaterally.
it will assist our partners in their sustainable development through the transfer of environmentally sound technologies and know-how.
it will create a demand for credits from ji and cdm projects by allowing around 12 000 companies across europe to use joint implementation and clean development mechanism credits for compliance with their obligations under the eu emissions trading scheme.
by doing so it will enhance the cost-efficiency of the eu emissions trading scheme in a way that also benefits developing countries and economies in transition.
the commission would now ask you to support this compromise package and, in doing so, take another determined step in strengthening the european union's response to the challenge of climate change.
(es) madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the emissions trading directive about two years ago opened the way for some of the most polluting industrial sectors to participate in the fight to reduce co2 emissions into the atmosphere.
it was a complex first step, still very recent, undoubtedly necessary to get closer to fulfilling the european union's commitments on climate change, but it also created a certain climate of distrust and fear of its practical implementation.
i am convinced that the work and the report presented today will make a valuable contribution to further improving maritime safety in europe and to preventing environmental disasters from happening again.
as regards the means of combating pollution, i would like to point out the final approval of the amendments to the regulation of the european maritime safety agency, which extend the powers of the latter to combat marine pollution.
as regards the legislation currently under discussion, i would first of all like to thank you for your support of the proposal for a directive which provides for the imposition of effective criminal sanctions on those responsible for marine pollution incidents.
in connection with the adoption of the regulation on the international safety management code, which seeks to promote a culture of safety and pollution prevention, the commission would like to thank you for your support at the february plenary session, and i hope that the council will adopt common positions on both issues at its june meeting.
the commission is following closely the work being carried out within the framework of cipol on the modification of the international system of compensation for oil pollution.
i would point out that at the meeting of the committee on the protection of the marine environment in london last week, the designation by the imo of the baltic, the canary islands and the galapagos archipelago as particularly sensitive maritime areas was achieved.
in my view, this is a great success not only for the commission but for the whole european union, since the adoption of a set of international standards in this area increases the protection of the interests of coastal states against the risk of pollution.
the work on the mare commission has enabled us to delve deeper into the prestige disaster, its environmental consequences and the need to make progress in maritime safety.
it is clear that the decision to move the prestige away was a mistake, and it is therefore urgent to create a network of safe havens - which has already been advanced, as the commissioner has said - on the european coast and, as the report says, to provide it with economic compensation to alleviate the problems, including environmental ones, which are due to the reception of ships carrying dangerous goods.
although it is a positive report, our group abstained in the committee vote because it does not include some fundamental issues for the safety of the environment and of the workers at sea.
there is an environmental principle which is part of the content which we believe should be adopted in the report: 'whoever pollutes, pays'.
this has not been the case and most of the groups have the impression that between 13 and 19 november 2001 hasty and ill-founded decisions were taken which caused an accident to become the biggest ecological catastrophe in europe in recent decades.
i am grateful for his work, because when you compare the title and purpose of this temporary committee on the strengthening of maritime safety with some of the many amendments tabled, you get a sense of the difficulty of his work as rapporteur, and you also get the feeling that the political opponents of the party in the government of the autonomous community of galicia and then in the government of the nation in spain were more interested in the partisan and partisan debate and in trying to politically erode and wear down the ruling party than in looking ahead and trying to improve maritime safety effectively and efficiently in its various aspects: social, economic, fisheries, tourism, environment or health.
this committee should have made it quite clear that this should not happen again, that pollution is not free and that not everything is resolved in commercial relations and political dependencies.
the major catastrophes - if you do the statistics - account for less than 10% of marine pollution.
the great pollution - although it is true that it is more diluted and therefore less visible - is the continuous dumping, the cleaning of bilges, the cleaning that unscrupulous ships do on the high seas.
and all this is consistent with the measure we have taken previously of port facilities to collect the waste and allow ships arriving in european ports to clean up in those ports.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of ships and to improve the safety of the marine environment.
we have very recently adopted a regulation to modify the capabilities of this agency, including a capability to manage anti-pollution activities in the event of an accident, so that it can be dealt with with european means in line with the needs that arise, but we have also extended its capabilities in the field of safety, in the sense of sûreté and sécurité.
i would therefore be grateful if the funds would support us in the budget debate, because we are discussing the financing for 2005 and we need funds to be able to provide ourselves with the means of anti-pollution, and specifically the cleaning vessels we were talking about.
i would like to congratulate mr cocilovo on what he has achieved and, in general, i would like to take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to thank all the members of the committee on transport for the extraordinary cooperation we have developed over the years, which has enabled us to adopt a number of key measures to boost the transport sector in the european union: safer, more competitive transport, the reality of the internal market, the reality of the environment and the reality of sustainable development with transport serving the growth and well-being of european citizens.
the proposed funding for the establishment of, for example, a chemical testing agency is also essential if the new approach in chemicals policy to test waste materials for their environmental and health effects is not to become a bureaucratic hindrance to the chemical industry but, on the contrary, to accelerate innovation.
0 other
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
(es) mr president, this 2005 budgetary year will be characterised by two main agricultural themes: on the one hand, a european union of 25 member states from the beginning of the budget, as the commissioner has rightly said, and on the other hand, the implementation of certain provisions adopted in the reform of the common agricultural policy which are now coming into force, such as direct aid to milk producers, or aid for rice without the old penalties, and aid for nuts, durum wheat quality and energy crops.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0237/2004) by mr rübig, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending decision 2000/819/ec establishing a multiannual programme to promote initiative and entrepreneurship, in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) (2001-2005) (com (2003) 758 - c5-0628/2003 - 2003/0292 (cod)).
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0235/2004) by mr van velzen, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a multiannual community programme to improve the accessibility, usability and commercial exploitation of digital content in the community (com (2004) 96 - c5-0082/2004 - 2004/0025 (cod)).
with regard to the olympic games, the european commission financially supports the implementation of the charter of intent adopted by the organising committee for the winter olympic games in turin in 2006. this sets out the organising committee's commitment to dealing with ethical, environmental and social issues and to reporting on the social impact of the activities and compliance with the ethical standards.
we must extend our coordination beyond budgetary matters to cover broader economic policy issues and we must take into account both the social and environmental dimension which mrs myller has spoken of and has mentioned what i have said and emphasized before and i make it clearer now, namely that countries which provide high social protection, such as denmark and sweden, manage to be highly competitive.
in a europe with 9% unemployment and 50 million poor people, we must make clear the importance of community policies, the lisbon strategy and the environmental dimension of gothenburg for cohesion and competitiveness, which we do not consider to be antagonistic but complementary.
mr nassauer, i feel obliged to give you the floor so as not to waste any more time, but i would ask you to remain silent.
and the third block is sustainability.
in my first contribution i stressed the importance of taking care of the environment, which is also part of the lisbon agenda.
indeed, it is a combination of growth, social cohesion and sustainability.
i think it is in our interest, in europe's interest, but i also think it is in the interest of the world, globally considered, to face the great challenges on a global scale, namely terrorism, threats to the environment, major epidemics and underdevelopment, which cannot be overcome by europe alone.
competitiveness, no doubt, but also social cohesion, sustainable development, including environmental protection, and a european policy of environmental leadership.
international issues: to answer questions from mr watson, mr de sarnes, mr schultz, mr ortuondo larrea and mr kristovskis, among others, on a strong europe in the world, i am in favour of europe maintaining its leadership on environmental issues, particularly on climate change issues with kyoto.
i think it is in our interest to involve the united states of america constructively in the major global issues, namely environmental issues and the fight against underdevelopment and major epidemics.
that is why i understand the lisbon agenda as an economic agenda, a competitiveness agenda, but also a social agenda and an environmental agenda.
the next item is the commission statement on the recent environmental disasters (fires in southern europe).
as we have seen recently, floods and forest fires wreak havoc, causing human and economic problems and also serious damage to our environment.
four years ago i expressed my concerns about the increasing number of forest fires and the damage they cause, stating that the risk for forest fires and the vulnerability of our forests have now reached a level beyond which further fires would seriously endanger the ecosystems and their sustainable management.
mr president, i have to agree with the commissioner when she says that in the european union the problems of fires are causing great environmental tragedies.
there are 45 000 fires in the european union every year and more are going to be burning every day because drought, which is a structural problem in the european union, is going to cause ever greater environmental problems, not only in southern europe but also in the north.
the united nations experts also tell us that this problem will continue to increase with climate change, and we find that in the face of these 45 000 fires a year, the european union lacks a genuine common policy for fighting fires.
the figure for the area burned is a real ecological catastrophe.
the union should not take a single step backwards in its climate change policy.
the serious environmental consequences of forest fires call for european action.
at the same time, european forestry policy should be reoriented by recognising the uniqueness of the southern forest and by drawing up a specific plan for its protection and for the comprehensive environmental recovery of burned areas.
we know that climate change will probably increase these types of extreme weather events and it is quite probable that we will see more of these problems occurring, as the international panel of climate change has told us.
it will focus on restoration and involvement of civil society because, as you said, the causes can be anything from climate change to the human factor.
the emissions from aviation are increasingly significant.
the commission will also study the technical feasibility of introducing aviation emissions trading schemes into a general scheme and will look at different solutions in this area.
in may 2000 the turkish authorities informed the spanish ministry of the environment that they had received 2 200 tonnes of ash that had been exported without authorisation.
the turkish authorities classified the waste as hazardous due to its chromium content.
the information from the port of avilés showed that the documents that the ship was carrying were forged, hiding the fact that the waste was originally destined for algeria but had been rejected there because it was wet and therefore unusable.
the company exporting the cargo stated that it had not intended to send the waste to turkey, but to algeria, and that the captain of the ship had acted without its consent.
the spanish authorities took action against the company and required it to take the waste back to spain for treatment.
we have strict rules in place that regulate the movement of waste within and outside the european union.
exports of waste for disposal are prohibited.
exports of hazardous waste for recovery to oecd countries, including turkey, have to be notified to the competent authority in the country of export and need the consent of the authorities concerned.
if an eu member state discovers that a shipment has taken place without notification, it has to ensure either that the waste is taken back within 30 days or that it is taken care of in an environmentally sound manner.
according to the information available, spain was willing to take back the waste and fulfil its legal obligations.
furthermore, may i remind you that the role of non-eu countries in cases such as this is defined in the basel convention on transboundary movements of hazardous waste and their disposal.
the erika and prestige accidents in community waters have taught us the hard way about the urgent need for legislation and control of maritime traffic in the european union, and have painfully brought about a set of very advanced legislative measures whose transposition, implementation and rigorous application are helping to advance the process of strengthening maritime safety and preventing marine pollution within the union.
in the case of the mv ulla accident in the port of iskenderun, alexandria, turkey, we find another type of need, which has to do with coordination between the authorities of a member state of the union which has always complied with international and community legislation and the authorities of an associated state which aspires to be part of the union and which should therefore make every effort, as it already does in other areas, to comply with what we call the community acquis on environmental prevention, and with the contradiction between the two aspects involved in this type of accident: the urgent practical measures and decisions to deal with the environmental emergency and the much slower legal requirements, the conflicts and the difficulty of identifying the last responsible parties which the interests of the maritime traffic chamber cause, and which it is constantly denouncing.
it is not a coincidence, it is not an isolated incident, we are talking about the number one company in the construction materials sector: lafargue-asland, we are talking about its spanish subsidiary dragados, which has already been fined 18 times for not declaring the content of its waste.
we are talking about a four-year period, whereas the deadline for returning the waste should be 30 days.
mr president, honourable members, we have a common interest in keeping our seas safe and preventing environmental catastrophes of this kind.
we have to concentrate on implementing environmental legislation to the full, thus avoiding problems of this kind.
the issue was raised about the "polluter pays" principle, which is one of the fundamental principles in eu legislation and in eu environmental policy.
but in this case the pollution has taken place outside the eu where, of course, the commission has no competence to apply eu law.
how does the commission intend to make europe a leading power in the field of the environment, sustainable development and development aid?
in 2005, five years will have passed since the union decided to set itself the objective of 'becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion'.
this lisbon process coincides with the increased importance of environmental policies.
i think that this parliament should contribute to all this, because most of the citizens we represent here know, or at least intuit, that no country can face globalisation, environmental imbalances, the emergence of continental states, terrorist threats or poverty and the immigration it produces alone.
to return appropriations to member states because they have not been able to spend them is to waste the added value of spending on community policies which have been adopted to contribute to growth and employment in the union.
the hazardous security climate – evident not least in the appalling series of kidnappings, most recently of humanitarian workers dedicated to the wellbeing of iraqis, and evident also in yesterday’s appalling atrocity in baghdad – obviously limits the pace of disbursement, as does the fact that we are working with an interim government that is still feeling its way in public administration.
and that is indeed an answer that we must find not only with the instrument of the stability and growth pact, but also by re-reading it, revising it and adapting it, introducing more economic rationality into it, taking into account the heterogeneity of a european union of 25 following enlargement, taking into account that the treaty also speaks of the need to preserve the sustainability of public finances and not only to preserve and ensure budgetary balance in each of the financial years, through the monitoring of the public deficit, and taking into account that, throughout the years of application of the stability and growth pact, it has always suffered, in terms of credibility, because the existing rules have not been adopted and the one who must do so in the last instance, which is the council.
we need to link the pact instrument better with the other economic governance instruments - as has been said in many speeches this afternoon - of the lisbon agenda of economic growth objectives to make the economic and monetary union of the european union the most competitive area in the world, and at the same time more socially cohesive and more environmentally sustainable.
the council will have to take the appropriate decisions, of course, in a climate of cooperation, but, of course, with the utmost respect for the principles and rules laid down in the treaties and the regulations in force on budgetary stability.
how harmonized are the policies of the member states with regard to the implementation of the kyoto treaty and what will be the position of the member states on 28 september when an amendment is to be considered at the international civil aviation organization which seeks to change the icao regulation in the opposite direction with regard to aircraft emissions on international flights?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from pollution caused by industrial processes, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from pollution caused by industrial processes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we have therefore strongly supported and accompanied the reform processes under way in central and eastern europe and, at the same time, we have taken on board the concerns expressed by europeans about the costs of enlargement, population movements, environmental risks, nuclear safety and corruption.
the results achieved and the proposals put forward are numerous in terms of achieving the area of freedom, security and justice, improving environmental protection, the energy and transport sectors, and strengthening health and consumer protection.
think of the implementation of the tampere agenda and the effort made to respond to the new challenges of international terrorism after the attacks of 11 september 2001. think of the sustainable development strategy in gothenburg, the johannesburg summit and european action in support of the kyoto protocol, which now seems to be able to bring its final results.
the reform of the common agricultural policy itself is designed to respond to new challenges, both domestic and global, by aiming at a more sustainable strategy that pays more attention to rural development.
the same is true of suggestions on energy, the environment and progress.
our priority on multilateralism, our consideration for the first time in history of the world as one in so many different fields - environment, economy, energy - and our attempt to find suitable solutions to it, is the extraordinary contribution that europe is making to the globalised world.
the reform of the gsp incorporates the idea that the best trade preferences are conditional on compliance with certain standards of social protection, human rights, good governance and sustainable environmental development.
in short, a bottom-up model will be dissolving, and we need an integrated, intelligent and ambitious economic, social and environmental governance.
in addition, european economies have meanwhile, over that 30-year period, significantly increased their energy efficiency, reducing their dependence on oil from that which existed in the 1980s, making us less vulnerable to rising energy prices.
in addition, the major changes in the formation of wages in the european economies, which are now less linked to price developments, should make it possible to reduce the side effects of the increase in energy prices or inflation, to which the president of the european central bank referred this afternoon.
firstly, it is good to note that the appropriate policies to ensure the stability of energy supply are being properly implemented and coordinated at international, community and national level, and, of course, it must be made clear that there is no reason to fear a disruption of energy supply in the industrialized countries, since the current level of strategic oil reserves, whether in the united states, the european union or other oecd countries, allows problems in the supply of crude oil, if they arise, to be dealt with over a long period of time.
and finally, and looking ahead, it is important that we continue the reforms that we have undertaken in the past at the level of the european union, continued reforms to further improve our energy efficiency, because that will improve the ability of our economies to cope with external economic disruptions, such as this rise in the price of oil, and at the same time, by taking those energy efficiency measures, we will increase the long-term growth potential of the economies of the union.
the oil price crises of 1993, 1994, 2002 and 2004 already show that this is not a short-term problem but a cyclical one, and cycles are expected to be shorter and shorter, as this is an exhaustible source of energy.
the only institution elected by universal suffrage by all citizens is the parliament, and the social environment that our societies require requires a political environment which we have the duty to create from a more cohesive and united base.
and that is why we want to be consistent with this previous political environment, which will require the adoption of the european constitution, unequivocally supporting mr barroso.
what had begun with such prosaic concrete building blocks as coal and steel grew into a movement that would break down the walls of division in europe, preserve peace and give our continent new resilience and energy - certainly not, as robert schuman said, as a saut dans l'inconnu - a leap into the unknown - but as a leap towards a common future, this time clearly defined and enshrined in treaties.
we should therefore initiate a policy dialogue in important areas of economic management, such as industrial policy, the environment or competition.
we intend to promote strategic dialogues - ranging from regulatory dialogue to cooperation in research - in sectors such as information technology, transport, energy, biotechnology or space science.
we are living in a time of turbulent international relations, and the union, which is seeking to consolidate its institutions with the adoption of the european constitution, can play - if we have the political will to do so - a prominent role in promoting peace, stability and justice - including ecological justice - on our troubled planet.
i therefore believe that the three institutions can and must, within their respective spheres of competence, but always in coordination, work to promote sustainable development and the proper management of globalisation, among other things, and encourage new delhi to take a determined stand against poverty, for which it can count, i am sure, on the union's collaboration.
as regards the environmental impact of low frequency sonar at sea, the council is aware of ongoing studies on the possibility of whale, dolphin or other marine animals being injured, deafened or losing their sense of direction.
the second question i would like to ask is whether the president-in-office of the council thinks that, from the council's point of view and within the framework of cooperation on the common foreign and security policy, it would be appropriate for us to start taking a position, at least in the form of recommendations, to prevent this export of pollution from the united states to waters close to the european union.
(applause) i would like to thank
the agenda for the debate on cases of breaches of human rights, democracy and the rule of law is as follows: duration: one hour maximum (rule 50 of the rules of procedure)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
we will work with all the actors concerned to ensure that an integrated and comprehensive humanitarian approach is put in place to the whole range of problems posed by what is commonly called war debris and what might be more appropriately called war waste.
however, in view of our growing concerns, particularly in relation to nuclear energy, these discussions have been suspended for some time.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
mr president, i want to talk about climate change, but above all about the report by the european environment agency, which published a diagnosis of the future two months ago and states that the areas most at risk, those most likely to suffer from climate change, are those in the mediterranean.
i would therefore ask that europe clearly align itself on strategies to combat desertification and on a policy of adaptation to climate change, as the agency recommends.
we must have adaptable policies, as sustainable development indicates.
mr president, commissioner, although i congratulate you on your new responsibility, i am very glad that you are here tonight in the debate on climate change.
the european union's strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change is really of great interest.
i think it is very necessary to work towards including in the second commitment period the discussions initiated in milan, in order to incorporate emissions from air and sea transport, and even to make progress on some global commitment to reduce emissions from the traffic of people and goods by land, which is at the moment a major problem with regard to air pollution.
in addition, the commission should consider developing more measures on energy efficiency and also on more renewable energy sources because, as you said, mrs wallström, on 26 august, if all public authorities in the european union switched to green energy, 62 million tonnes of co2 would be eliminated, which would allow us to meet 18% of the kyoto commitments on emission reductions.
furthermore, i believe that the market needs clear and sustained signals for the promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
for all these reasons, i think it would be good if the commission were to put forward a proposal to increase energy efficiency measures and promote alternative energy sources in the second term, and proposing is another way of maintaining leadership in the european union.
i hope to continue to follow this discussion, because this concerns not only the environment but also our survival on this planet and the economic and social consequences that affect us now.
thus, in the years to come, i hope to support and be involved in the initiatives to tackle climate change taken by the barroso commission.
i recall that we very rarely get reports from the pacific ocean – the vast expanse of water that covers one third of this planet – but where the effects of climate change are already affecting people living in small island states.
it must be said that during all the debates on climate change over the past five years the speeches by representatives from the small island states have been the most impressive, because they can tell us their personal stories of how this affected their lives and the possibilities to continue to live on these small islands.
i have tried to turn it around and say that it is an ingenious protocol, because it combines sound science and the way the united nations has put together the intergovernmental panel for climate change is unprecedented.
with sound science, we have common but differentiated responsibilities, meaning that the rich countries – those who emit eight or eighty times as much pollution the poor countries do – have a certain responsibility.
we will involve and mobilise different actors and use market forces for the good of the environment.
we will have to revise it and work and change it for many years to come, but it is the one game there is in town in combating climate change.
for once we can show the rest of the world that sustainable development is possible; that we can find cost-effective means and measures and that we are willing to cooperate with each other.
thanks to the european parliament we have a very ambitious climate-change policy.
mr president, in 2001 a total of 65 million tonnes of packaging waste was generated in the 15 old member states of the european union.
that corresponds to around 17% of municipal solid waste and 3% of the total waste generation by weight.
of these 65 million tonnes, 34 million tonnes – 53% – were recycled, and 60% was recovered or incinerated with energy recovery.
i agree with the report as adopted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and in your amendment no 3 the rapporteur has replaced the date proposed by the commission, one date for all, which, as you know, is the year 2012, which the member states had already negotiated.
i think it is premature to start this debate when in june 2005 the commission is due to present to parliament and the council a report on the implementation of the directive, its impact on the environment and the functioning of the external market.
so far, no environmental or economic reasons have been found for favouring one type of packaging over another.
thank you for this important debate and your valuable cooperation on environmental issues.
the common position advocates a policy of constructive engagement with cuba through enhanced dialogue with government and civil society with the objective of encouraging 'a process of transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable economic recovery and improvement in the living standards of the cuban people'.
we must first of all be satisfied that the suspension can be adopted quickly by the international atomic energy agency.
concerning the lisbon strategy, the european council confirmed the validity and relevance of the process it set in motion in 2000, aimed at enhancing the competitiveness of european economies through a balanced strategy with an economic, social and environmental dimension.
the economic results are also very positive: you have regained sustainable growth, controlled inflation and a significant increase in your foreign exchange reserves.
however, the environment is a competence which the constitutional treaty confers exclusively on the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we have also decided, and i think this is particularly important, to establish an energy dialogue between the european union and russia and, above all, to use the successful cooperation in this field as an engine for other areas.
we also discussed the investment climate in russia and, in this context, the situation of yukos.
we have also decided, as the honourable member has mentioned, that the common economic area will also deal with environmental issues in particular.
this will enable us to tackle the environmental challenges together, and we all, of course, have expressly welcomed russia's ratification of the kyoto protocol.
this will now enable us to strengthen our bilateral cooperation, but above all cooperation in international forums on climate change.
but more than anything else, values that we share with our colombian friends are at stake, such as respect for human rights, the rule of law, but also poverty alleviation and sustainable economic development.
the third is, of course, sustainable development, especially the development of social cohesion, which was also discussed at the guadalajara summit in may.
this is of course also a matter of sustainable economic development.
the committee on industry, research and energy is also keen to highlight and welcome the progress made by turkey in the economic field in line with the criteria laid down by the union and, in particular, we want to stress its conformity with the acquis communautaire in areas such as energy policy, industrial policy, research and development and telecommunications.
that is the essence of the amendment which the committee on industry, research and energy is proposing to add to mr eurlings' report.
secondly, the vast majority of speakers identified three key areas for action: the area we can call lisbon, the lisbon strategy (economic reform with a social and environmental dimension), the areas linked to security and justice and europe's role in the world.
without growth, without job creation, without more dynamism in our economy, we will not be able to maintain the high levels of social protection and environmental requirements which we consider to be part of what is commonly called the european model.
these objectives - greater competitiveness with sustainable development and social concern - cannot in any way be incompatible.
the eu congratulates bulgaria on this positive result, which has taken much effort and energy.
however, the committee on industry, research and energy would like to stress that in the areas of research and development, energy, industrial policy and telecommunications policy, additional efforts are needed if we want bulgaria's accession to be a historic success, as the date of accession is already very close.
in any event, our thoughts at this stage, in relation to each of the sectors within the competence of our committee, are as follows: as regards energy policy, bulgaria - as has already been said - is at present dependent on nuclear energy to meet its domestic needs, but the reality is that its nuclear power stations are technically obsolete and that the decommissioning of part of them has entailed high costs.
the proper enforcement of eu competition rules is a precondition for creating a reliable business environment and requires appropriate administrative capacity.
the european union will continue to monitor closely romania's preparations and achievements, including the effective implementation of the commitments undertaken in all areas of the acquis and in particular the areas of justice and home affairs, competition and the environment.
and efforts are also needed to preserve the environment.
this covers cross-border transnational and interregional cooperation intended to encourage a harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of the whole of the community area.
coreper discussed the commission proposal on 15 december, and it will go as an 'a' point – that is, one where there are no problems – to the environment council before christmas.
mr president, twenty years after the toxic gas leak at a union carbide corporation fertilizer plant in bhopal, the harmful effects and environmental pollution continue to affect the lives of thousands of people today.
neither the indian government, nor union carbide or dow chemical, the company that currently owns the fertilizer plant, have taken responsibility for the impact of the accident on the lives of thousands of people and the environment.
as the resolution we are voting on today states, there is a need for an independent inquiry into the current situation in bhopal, which could be carried out under the auspices of the united nations commission on human rights, with the involvement of experts, to examine, during visits to india, the consequences of the activities of union carbide and the bhopal disaster for the pollution of groundwater and the environment, and therefore for the human rights of the affected areas and communities.
this commemorative date should serve as an opportunity for all international actors - states, international organisations and civil society, but especially businesses - to reflect on their shared responsibility for building a fairer and more sustainable world.
at the recent eu-india summit held in the hague, india reconfirmed its interest in pursuing an environment dialogue with the european union and proposed the organisation of an eu-india environment forum.
this forum will be a first step in tackling the enormous environmental problems that threaten both india and the european union.