(fi) mr president, commissioner, mr sterckx's report is an important statement on behalf of the marine environment.
(fi) mr president, when an accident occurs in a sea area, it has far-reaching and difficult-to-remedy consequences for the whole surrounding environment.
the marine environment is also being damaged by practices that are inconsistent with legislation and environmental welfare, such as the dumping of sewage into the open sea.
those who pollute the environment must be held accountable for their actions.
the strengthening of the criminal law framework will hopefully act as a sufficient deterrent to those who transport dangerous goods in poorly maintained or unsuitable vessels or who otherwise damage the environment through their careless or negligent activities.
for example, the baltic sea, which is a very sensitive sea surrounded by many countries and a shallow inland sea, is taking great risks that can prove devastating to the environment.
the daily monitoring and inspections must also be increased to tackle illegal emissions.
i hope that, once the directives to improve maritime safety have been adopted at eu level, all parties responsible for maritime transport will carefully consider how transport can be carried out using the appropriate means and in the safest possible way for the environment.
the authorities shall take action to improve the safety of nuclear installations in cooperation with the international atomic energy agency.
the timetable for the waste issue was a windfall, totally unrealistic.
so even in the form of a proposal, there is no complete package of directives, but in my view, a supporter of safe and environmentally friendly nuclear energy has no choice but to support both reports in their present form.
(fi) mr president, mr breyer likes to compare the loan scheme in question to a form of energy production which is a form of state aid distorting the market.
how much renewable energy is subsidized?
it also has its own cultural and environmental value.
in my report i propose that the commission should draw up clear definitions and criteria, taking account of the climate, the length of the growing season, the sparsity of inhabitants and the remoteness of the northern agricultural areas, in order to take account of the permanent handicaps of these areas.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
as we all know, the question of the social and environmental criteria has been very topical in this debate.
today we can note that the commission has also drawn up an action plan for modern environmental technology.
we should not be afraid of modern environmental technology.
the channels of fair trade and sustainable trade must therefore be made to function in such a way that european consumers can support developing countries' businesses and producers by their own purchasing decisions.
the objective of launching the agency as soon as next year is therefore quite right, and the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection strongly supports this objective.
investment in transport and energy networks will create new jobs immediately and strengthen the conditions for business, including in less developed and remote areas.
the new member states need support for reconstruction and strengthening the economic environment.
pollution and the use of waterways for logging and hydroelectric power have reduced the production of chicks.
fishing must be restricted in such a way as to ensure the sustainable natural regeneration of the stock of salmon.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
in this new environment, the use of retour interpretation will increase.
it is worrying if russia is becoming our own middle east, where, because of europe's energy dependence, we are prepared to accept the continuation year after year of human rights violations such as the chechen tragedy, the growing risks of oil transport, the collapse of nuclear security and the worrying reductions in civil liberties.
the eu needs oil and natural gas, so there is a need to develop energy cooperation.
as part of this, environmental considerations must be taken into account, whether in the production of energy or in its transport.
building sustainable cooperation requires networking among citizens.
air pollution is indeed a major public health issue and such an epidemiological study would certainly be necessary.
this would also support the emphasis on science in the sixth framework programme, and the improvement of the level, quality and coverage of environmental research.
does this cafe programme focus only on outdoor air quality and pollution, or could indoor air quality and in particular passive smoking be investigated in this context?
i am very concerned that the research is limited to outdoor air quality and, somewhat narrowly, to this air pollution.
the committee on the environment adopted 60 amendments to the commission proposal, bringing it more in line with the three previously adopted air quality directives.
mr president, this integrated air quality package, which is now being finalised, will effectively prevent air pollution in the eu, except in one important area: small particles.
the aim is to prevent and reduce the adverse effects of air pollution on human health and the environment.
next autumn, the commission will set up a portfolio of competitiveness commissioners, whose task will be to deliver the lisbon objectives and to coordinate and coordinate the work of the commissioners for industry, the environment and employment.
however, enlargement shows that peaceful and equal cooperation is the most sustainable in all circumstances.
it provides opportunities for the development of sustainable, more environmentally friendly modes of transport in a way that maximises logistics efficiency.
this issue was already raised by the commission at the meeting of the habitats committee on 20 november 2002 and the information subsequently obtained on this highly complex issue from member states and regional marine environmental organisations should be complemented by additional scientific studies.
the commission is also aware of the possible effects of military activities on the environment, but it is not possible to take further community measures to regulate the development of new military technologies because of the lack of union competence in this specific area.
in january last year, my oral question to the commission on the environmental impact of the lfas was dealt with.
mr solbes mira, you promised at the time that the commission would send a letter to all the member states on this subject, for which i thank you, and you stated that the radar would be in breach of the habitats directive in respect of possible adverse environmental effects.
last october, we, on our part, were with a parliamentary delegation at nato headquarters in brussels handing over a petition signed by over 85 000 people and 68 environmental organisations on the subject.
i therefore continue to urge the nato member countries to restrict the use of the radar system until its environmental impact and its link to the recent whale deaths have been fully investigated.
i can also imagine situations where the packaging mentioned above helps us to save energy, which would of course be valuable.
however, i would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs and our good officer virpi köykkä for their excellent work.
the montreal protocol sought to eliminate cfcs, since these gases are harmful to stratospheric ozone.
the present report is necessary because hfcs are not innocent either, but are potent greenhouse gases.
they have a global warming potential of 100 or even more than 1,000 times that of carbon dioxide.
the threat of climate change therefore requires that hfcs be restricted as well.
my own view is that the best solution for total emissions is to switch to systems that use carbon dioxide.
the timetable thus adopted is, in my view, too slow in terms of climate change, especially given the sharp increase in vehicle air conditioning in recent years.
overall, the role of private transport in combating climate change will thus be further emphasised.
this allows, on the one hand, to minimise the amount of emissions and, on the other hand, to achieve the certainty of reporting that is essential for monitoring.
(fi) mr president, the european environmental health strategy is an important part of the practical implementation of the eu's sixth environment action programme.
it was the third priority of the environmental programme and it was then stated that it was a very important part of the new challenges we are facing.
in many countries, work in environmental health and protection has already made a significant contribution to achieving a high level of environmental health.
this is a good starting point for the objectives of providing citizens with an environment in which the level of pollution does not cause adverse effects on human health and the environment.
to achieve this, investment is needed, of course, in research, but also in training and in concrete investments to ensure a better environment in the future.
adoption of this package of proposals will mean that we have passed a milestone in strengthening environmental democracy: the århus convention’s requirements on access to environmental information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters will be set to apply throughout the whole of the european union.
we already have in place legislation concerning the århus convention’s first and second pillars – access to environmental information and public participation in environmental decision-making.
the proposal for a directive on access to justice in environmental matters and for a regulation to apply the århus convention to the community institutions and bodies will allow the community to complete the package of legislative instruments aimed at effective implementation of the århus convention.
in addition, the commission’s proposal for a decision on the conclusion of the århus convention by the european community provides the means to live up to our political commitment by becoming a party to the convention, further to its signature in 1998. the proposal for a directive on access to justice aims to implement the third pillar of the århus convention by establishing minimum requirements for access to administrative or judicial proceedings in environmental matters.
this can only be guaranteed by means of an eu-wide instrument with respect to access to justice in environmental matters setting the minimum conditions all member states have to comply with.
furthermore, such an instrument will help to improve the implementation of community law, and hence further the effectiveness of community environmental policy.
the first three institutions have already taken a general decision not to levy charges, which should of course not be changed as regards environmental data.
the environmental organisations themselves consider that the general criteria adopted by the committee are too stringent for many environmental organisations.
the simple criteria for determining the eligible entity therefore protect the special right now being granted to serious environmental organisations.
i hope that environmental organizations will be able to see it from this perspective.
on the other hand, if some organisations are too small to meet even these simple criteria on their own, it may even be beneficial for the objective of environmental protection itself to pool expertise and resources rather than acting unnecessarily fragmentarily, at least when using the appeal mechanism.
i have also clarified the provisions so that foreign associations have an unconditional right to appeal where there is a genuine cross-border environmental impact.
as rapporteur, i hope that parliament will adopt a more ambitious approach where the community has competence, since the incorporation of the environmental convention into community law is different from the drafting of directives based on conventions in other areas, such as land use.
in the latter case, the decision is static, whereas environmental legislation should be a dynamic process.
environmental policy aims to turn harmful global developments into positive ones, gradually, by drawing on the lessons learned.
the convention on the environment should therefore be implemented in a way that can lead to improvements in subsequent revisions of the convention.
it has been interesting to note that the environment committee approved this directive and held back a proposal that we should reject it, by only 17 votes to 16. it is an ideological question for many of us why environmental organizations should have a privileged position compared to other organizations.
it is a deep ideological conviction of many of us that other environmental organizations should also have this right.
(the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has adopted an opinion.
(fi) mr president, the central issue of the directive is the definition of waste in the mining industry, where the waste is either harmless or hazardous.
the wording of the few amendments on permanent waste confuses the whole logic and opens up a jungle of endless questions.
in the case of the mining industry, non-hazardous waste is really harmless because it is a material that comes from nature.
a natural material, a by-product of the earth's crust, which is not harmful to the environment, cannot be considered waste, especially if it is still used as a filling material in mines and quarries, for land reclamation or for road construction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community.
the question now is whether we want to keep this industry in europe and under our own control, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development, or whether we will push it out of the union with too restrictive and unfamiliar legislation, where its environmental issues are beyond our control.
it is of the utmost importance that the european union establishes a clear mineral policy which takes account of environmental and economic aspects.
(fi) mr president, the creation of waste must be prevented both quantitatively and qualitatively, and at the same time the possibilities for the recovery of waste material must be increased so that the amount of waste to be disposed of is as small as possible.
the community's approach to waste has been aimed at this for a long time, and this was also the conclusion of our rapporteur, mr florenz's excellent report.
the principles of waste prevention and efficient waste treatment and recovery are, however, easily interpreted as mutually threatening.
we have organizations which oppose the efficient use of waste because they fear that successful waste management will threaten the principle of prevention.
the definition of waste plays a crucial role here.
the problem is that we have different and often too restrictive definitions of waste, as the large number of cases before the court of justice of the european communities shows.
competition, together with the community legislation already in force, is thus providing a satisfactory guide to the prevention of waste generation; the trend is quite right and needs only to be reinforced.
the greatest untapped potential is still in the use of materials and by-products classified as waste in such a way that the use of virgin material is reduced and disposal is not necessary.
industrial activities generate large quantities of material whose exact composition is known and which could be considered at source as a separate part of the rest of the waste stream.
europe is right to pursue sustainable waste management and this objective cannot be ignored.
however, climate change is a real threat and its response should be seen as strong and dynamic.
one way is to analyse previous eu policies which have already successfully decoupled economic growth from emissions growth in most sectors.
this has been achieved by decentralising action into diverse and effective policies that create momentum and even positive environmental and social spill-overs.
the united nations environment programme should be given adequate powers and decentralised action to combat climate change into actions to promote energy efficiency, renewable energy and clean technologies.
such an approach would also open up a new opportunity for the us and russia to join and contribute to reducing greenhouse gases.
the un should establish clear global structures for carbon economy and carbon pricing, while strongly promoting market-based incentives to reduce emissions.
similarly, the rapid growth of emissions in china and india must be curbed within the un framework.
otherwise, the agreement will be contrary to the objectives of sustainable development.
in the case of kyoto, the biggest error seems to be related to carbon leakage, which threatens to occur when production is moved to countries not covered by the kyoto targets.
it is surprising and regrettable how much energy some in this parliament have devoted to trying to water down this proposal.
more than 80% of environmental damage is determined during the manufacturing phase of the product.
we have waste management regulations with quantitative targets for recycling and reuse.
it is therefore relatively natural that we have placed a certain emphasis on energy consumption when the proposal was discussed in committee.
i would like to emphasize this because it seems that there has been some rather strong criticism of our work in emphasizing the energy aspect.
this is at a time when we are still experiencing a sharp increase in energy consumption in most parts of europe and many member states are having difficulty in achieving the kyoto targets.
it is therefore important that we have new tools to save energy.
the report is also criticised for not taking account of the three pillars of sustainable development.
we must give priority to the environment at the expense of social and economic issues.
as the commissioner has also said, taking environmental issues into account in advance is ultimately more cost-effective than many other environmental management methods, such as subsidies and, unfortunately, labelling.
no one in this house has protested that in future the european parliament should not decide how much energy a product may consume.
we would have liked to move faster, and we want the directive to include a work plan for products which account for 40% of co2 emissions.
it is not appropriate to forget the wider role of culture in sustainable growth and increasing mutual understanding.
the same applies to the question of putting the agricultural and environmental budgets under the same heading.
deputy rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection (fi) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, mr sterckx, could not be present in strasbourg this evening and i shall be taking the floor in his place.
with better railway performance, we will bring ever greater benefits to users and achieve sustainable development in transport.
environmental protection also creates growth and stability.
we really need to make sure that we are generating sustainable growth in a way that also looks to the future.
we must have sustainable growth, with the environment at its very core.
but we must also focus on the safety of our neighbours, the safety of the immediate environment of each person.
secondly, sustainable development is an important issue.
we must decide how to maintain the conditions for industrial activity while taking account of environmental protection.
the combination of these two things is very important in the future if we are to remain competitive and also preserve the environment.
a good and sustainable economy, i was happy to hear that, but i think that a good and sustainable economy in europe requires that the growth and stability pact be maintained.
since its entry into force, other agreements relating to biodiversity have been adopted, most notably the convention on biological diversity.
one of the community's strategic objectives is to achieve greater synergies between these agreements, thereby contributing to a significant reduction in the rate of loss of biological diversity by 2010, as endorsed at the world summit on sustainable development.
the community also believes that cites should remain a vehicle for the sustainable use of wild fauna and flora.
rigidity is not an intrinsic value, sustainable development is an intrinsic value.
although the scope of cites is limited to trade, perhaps its analysis could also serve as a model for other international environmental agreements.
we have also achieved a lot in the field of energy.
we are now getting and building transeuropean energy networks.
have these energy problems in the united states and europe awakened us?
member states should prepare for long-term price peaks by means of temporary tax solutions, large emergency stocks, which we need, new sources of energy, and reducing and improving consumption.
of course, we must reduce our dependence on oil and develop new sources of energy.
the only way we can influence the price of oil and other energy in the long term is to ensure that european energy policy is sufficiently diversified, and we must support a diversified energy mix that includes all the main forms of energy, including nuclear power in particular.
russia sells energy where it is best priced, and the big consumers, china and india, can outperform europe in this respect.
we must not rely on imported energy, but we must ensure that we produce more of our energy in europe at a reasonable price and in an environmentally sustainable way.
the green group was also concerned about the answers given by mr dimas, the commissioner-designate for the environment, to the committee on the environment.
of course, dimas showed that he felt that environmental protection promotes economic development, which made us happy.
but he did not present any action plan, nothing concrete about how to develop environmental protection, and this worried us.
the commission welcomes the opportunity afforded by the european parliament to highlight once again the importance to the community of the conservation and protection of the marine environment.
mr solbes made a statement on behalf of the commission at the march 2004 plenary session on the impact of low frequency active sonar on the marine environment.
the commission is aware of the possible environmental impact of military activities.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the opportunity to remind you once again of the importance of this subject and of the many impacts that high-powered vessels have on our environment and in particular on marine life.
in october last year, researchers and a delegation from our parliament visited nato headquarters to present two petitions calling on nato member states to restrict the use of the so-called lfas system until its environmental impact and its link to the recent whale deaths have been fully investigated.
by then, the petition had been signed by over 85,000 people and 68 environmental organisations from europe, the us and canada.
while recognizing that it is perfectly legitimate to seek to develop a defence system and to monitor submarines of new technology, it is particularly important to take account of the vulnerability of our environment.
in the context of sustainable development, efforts must be made to develop alternative technologies that protect nature and achieve the objectives set for it.
in military technology as in other fields, it is good to remind ourselves of the ecological cost of the technology we choose.
ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit next december will be historic, because we now know that the kyoto agreement will come into force.
to prevent catastrophic climate change, global emissions must be reversed in at least twenty years, and industrialized countries must cut their emissions by at least sixty percent in about fifty years.
by reducing emissions by less than two per cent each year, we will achieve a reduction of sixty per cent in fifty years.
with modern sustainable technology, it is possible.
market mechanisms that favour clean technologies, such as energy taxation and emissions trading, are needed, but other new measures are also needed.
one possibility is to reduce vat on the most energy-efficient appliances on the market.
this is another way of achieving surprisingly large emission reductions if consumers always choose the most energy-efficient option when making purchasing decisions.
so there is still time to take the softest action to prevent catastrophic change, if we are determined and consistent and if the eu maintains its leadership in international climate policy.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great work he has done on this important and controversial directive on packaging waste.
in this respect, the proposal for a directive on packaging waste is not exceptional.
the commission's proposal to set a common back-up date for the recovery and recycling targets for the new member states under the packaging waste directive until december 2012 is justified in order to bring the market into line as soon as possible.
the recycling and reuse of packaging waste has also been the subject of much discussion during the preparation of the directive.
the ecological value of recycling should not be disputed.
however, it should be noted that the environmental friendliness of re-used packaging is not always directly justifiable.
a good example is the transport of fruit from southern countries to the nordic countries, where the return of reusable packaging would not contribute to sustainable development.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the baltic sea will be the cleanest sea in the world, which requires, among other things, an end to the emissions from st petersburg.
the principles of sustainable development must be applied to all this.
this is evident in the telecommunications and energy sectors, for example.
what is sustainable development?
is it environmental, social or scientific progress?
if there is no proper basic education in our country, there will be no sustainable development.
what kind of sustainable development is that?
it requires, among other things, that all waste water, including that from st. petersburg, be capable of being treated.