we must move on and today we are going to discuss a fundamental element of the mechanism for combating and preventing pollution from ships, namely the system of criminal sanctions for pollution offences for which a part of a directive sets the framework, and then there is the instrument in the criminal field.
in march 2003, the commission presented its proposal for a directive on pollution from ships and the introduction of penalties, including criminal penalties, for pollution offences.
the proposal seeks to incorporate into our legal system the provisions of the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships, the marpol convention.
as you know, the commission also put forward a proposal for a framework decision on pollution from ships in may last year.
in addition to the aspects of penalties - the treatment or punishment with penalties of certain actions in the field of pollution of the seas and the production of discharges - we will discuss the transfer of cargo and passenger vessels between community registers.
i would remind our colleagues that we are going to welcome, of course, ten states, but above all two island states with a very large fleet, malta and cyprus, and it seems appropriate to complete this regulation before 1 may 2004. that is why we should adopt the text after a single reading in parliament, as we did at the time for the simple hulls, so as not to waste time and to make maritime safety the objective, rather than fighting over purely procedural matters, the idea being to find the most intelligent or at least the least stupid compromise possible.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers.
we have been talking about these problems and marine pollution for four years now, and i hope that in a few years we will not have to talk about it too much.
i would, however, like to join in the compliments that have been addressed to the commissioner for the energy she has deployed to overcome the inertia of our governments and our ministers in this area.
i would conclude by saying that the drafting of a clear follow-up document, based on the work of the european parliament's temporary committee on maritime safety, should enable us to support the commissioner on these problems of marine pollution and liability.
the economic war imposed on all nations is devastating in its human and environmental costs.
the framework decision we are going to adopt tomorrow complements the 2003 directive on pollution from ships, which was an important first step.
again, we must prosecute all those responsible for these environmental crimes, whether they are private or public.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- mr president, when we know how severely traffic offences are punished, we fail to understand the laxity enjoyed at present by those who pollute our marine environment and consider the sea to be a piece of garbage.
in france, the maritime prefecture of brest has just set an example by recently imposing fines of eur 250 000. the commission also proposed that infringing vessels be permanently banned from eu ports in the event of a repeat offence, that joint investigation teams between member states be strengthened - the framework decision of 13 june 2002 allows this - that criminal investigations in the port state be used to inspect vessels, hear witnesses and take samples, that cooperation between maritime police forces in detecting pollution and identifying the perpetrators be strengthened, that a european coastguard be set up in the future, and that member states be encouraged to transpose european directives on maritime safety into their national legislation and to impose penalties in the event of delays.
we do not have to join the battle of the "for" and "against" of nuclear energy.
we must start from the present situation in terms of the energy needs of the planet, and in terms of the response to those needs.
we must then look ahead to the 21st century and see that our needs will double by 2050 or 2060, even if we continue to make a concerted effort to save energy.
we cannot afford to do without nuclear energy, otherwise we will both run out of energy and see the pollution of the planet worsen.
i therefore congratulate mr vidal-quadras on the quality of his work on the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel.
the report also raises the problem of the nature of the waste in question.
we do not consider these to be ordinary goods and we agree that, while the programme of a member state may provide for the transfer of nuclear waste to another member state, no member state is obliged to accept such imports.
the commission would like to make it appear that it has solved the problem of nuclear waste management with a magic wand, when thirty years of research have ended in failure.
nuclear safety would be better ensured in the plants of the new countries without introducing any new standards, by proposing to grant loans to the nuclear industry, thus favouring it over renewable and clean energy which are difficult to break through.
while all the opinion polls show that the problem of nuclear waste, some of which - it should be remembered - have a lifespan of millions of years, is the first concern of our citizens in environmental matters, the commission, with its draft, believes that the landfilling of nuclear waste would be the solution, and this without scientific evidence.
if the european parliament were to decide to bury radioactive waste, it would be a catastrophic political signal for the inhabitants of bure in lorraine, the first site for the excavation of a laboratory to test the reaction of highly radioactive nuclear waste in a deep clay layer.
without any comparative study, without any european democratic debate on the future of nuclear waste, this decision would give the bure site its one-way ticket to the landfill of european nuclear waste and make it the nuclear waste dump of europe.
there is still time to react by asking the commission to revise its copy as regards waste management, by proposing its storage underground, in the plant, and above all, by putting in place new and demanding standards for nuclear safety.
mr president, i think we are talking about too serious a subject to have religious views on a subject such as nuclear energy.
i think we have to exercise rationality, considering the current state of technological development, the current state of the european union, the current state of the international and european institutions and the current state of energy needs and also problems such as the fulfilment of the kyoto objectives.
mr president, we are talking about initiatives relating to safety at nuclear power stations, but also to the treatment of radioactive waste.
radioactive waste that comes not only from nuclear power plants.
the radioactive waste i am reminding you of comes from a number of industrial applications other than electricity generation or simply from medical applications.
we are told that the international energy agency is enough.
because all the candidate countries are partners of the international energy agency and have been since the beginning.
it would simply have been enough to leave the candidate countries to continue to comply with the rules of the international atomic energy agency as they interpret them.
it contributes, and contributes a lot in the field of nuclear power plant safety, and it contributes in waste management.
it is important in waste management because - although it is true that the dates we set in our original text were too ambitious - we are going to have deadlines, deadlines which force countries to take decisions.
we are starting from the premise that it is not said that deep burial is the only solution to be pursued; on the contrary, we are financing studies on waste treatment; we are financing all the research on transmutation, which is one of the most promising possibilities for the future.
the only thing i ask of some of you is to show me the directives before the present commission which really supported and supported renewable energy in europe.
i would like to see a real picture of what was happening in the field of energy efficiency before this commission came into being.
i would like to say, mr president, that the commission has no ideological approach to energy.
the objectives are to ensure the safety of the population, to give maximum transparency to the citizens, to guarantee the european union a secure and reliable energy supply.
and so, to work at the service of the citizens always, with one instrument or another, promoting energy efficiency, promoting renewable energies and promoting safety in the field of nuclear energy and also of radioactive waste, which, as i said at one point, goes far beyond what is simply waste originating from nuclear power stations.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0443/2003) by mr breyer, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 77/270/euratom authorising the commission to borrow euratom loans to contribute to the financing of nuclear power stations (com (2002) 456 - c5-0570/2002 - 2002/0246 (cns)).
i would like to say to mrs maitikainen-kallsstron that we are indeed making an effort at the moment in the european union with renewable energies; i have to say that the effort has been intensified in the last four years, and i am very proud of that, because i understand that the european union must promote renewable energies to the maximum, which does not mean that it does not have to strengthen nuclear safety to the maximum, within the european union, as i said a moment ago.
essential areas such as education, health and water must not be liberalised and the increasingly mixed situations where social, economic and ecological are interwoven must be addressed.
these are the rights to education, culture, health, the environment, clean water and air, as well as the rights to housing, transport, communication and information, energy, etc.
for example, recital h argues that liberalisation of important sectors of the internal market is a factor of technological progress and economic efficiency, and paragraph 13 welcomes liberalisation in the areas of telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy.
we are a long way from an approach that is essential in terms of fundamental rights: rights to energy, water, transport, housing, communication and information.
however, the general interest services should be tasked with ensuring these rights for citizens through a number of principles: equal access for all, information, consultation, participation of users and employees, financial sustainability.
the expectations and hopes born of the green paper are key public services for the implementation of economic, social and environmental rights; it is a europe which really aspires to meet the needs of the greatest number of people, in solidarity.
- mr president, while i too welcome the important work and energy of philippe herzog, i want to make it very clear that, as it has been adopted and amended by the economic committee, this is a report which i will not be able to vote on tomorrow.
you say that they are preserved, but at the same time you say that you want to liberalize environmental services, which are among the most important of the public services.
this shows once again that the wto is in crisis and that its trade policy is no longer sustainable.
in particular, cross-cutting issues such as sustainable development and public health must be put back at the heart of the wto's work.
need i say that more than 6 million tonnes of polluting waste are deliberately dumped into the sea every year?
- (fr) in the vidal-quadras roca report on spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste and in the seppänen report on the safety of nuclear installations, we have supported all the amendments which sought to introduce greater safety in the operation of the installations as well as in the treatment and storage of radioactive waste.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the spread of radioactive waste is a colossal problem for the environment and for public health.
at the same time, the idea of liberalization carries with it both social and environmental dangers, for example by increasingly using subcontractors to maintain nuclear installations.
in this connection, the amended vidal-quadras roca report, while claiming to contribute to better control of nuclear waste, contains serious shortcomings in two respects.
it maintains the right of a member state to export its waste to a third country (although, to an improvement, it provides for 'prior written informed consent by states') and it promotes the deep-sea disposal of radioactive waste, which is strongly criticised by the surrounding populations and by a large number of scientists.
the nuclear sector confirms that it is prohibitively expensive and enjoys scandalously favourable conditions compared with sectors producing 'clean' energy.
in fact, only nuclear energy - which has seen spectacular advances in research and which already provides us with an abundance of quality energy in complete safety - can meet the desire to preserve the environment, the demand for energy independence and the colossal challenge of the growth of the developing countries.
is it really reasonable to believe that the energy demand derived from development can be met by renewable forms of energy in countries such as india or china?
is it justified to condemn european nuclear energy to a definitive halt when it is the only one which can, through its experience and excellence in the field, really help to secure the new entities which in these third countries will not wait for the green light from the union to establish themselves?
the energy problem, which is a sensitive subject for the european union and of vital importance to three quarters of the world's population, can only be solved by a dispassionate and pragmatic approach to the problem, which is far from the brain-stem and fantasies of environmental integrationism.
it is now necessary to lay down the rules for international trade which better respects the sovereignty of peoples and is more compatible with the protection of the environment and public health.
nepad has ten priority themes, the most important of which are: good public governance, good governance of the private economy, infrastructure - which is important - education and health, of course, agriculture, the environment, energy, and finally, difficult access to the markets of developed countries.
it is time to assess the impact of past trade liberalisation policies on socioeconomic development and environmental protection.
promoting sustainable development in africa does not mean leaving the continent to multinational companies and foreign investment.
you said, mr president, that lisbon, sustainability, social cohesion - yes, wonderful!
competition, which is a source of waste and crisis in all sectors of industry, has even more fatal consequences when it comes to natural resources, which can be completely used up if they are subject to unrestrained and irrational competition.
the strict and ever-increasing requirements of community law, in particular those relating to safety, control, health conditions for production, environmental protection and social protection, mean that the costs of the eu fleet and processing undertakings are much higher than those of competitors.
education, health, public transport, postal services, telecommunications, water, energy and electricity supply and waste disposal should remain, or should again become, public services, independent of the foolish and inhumane laws of market forces, and whose purpose is not to secure profit in the private sector but to meet collective needs.
equal access for all, information, consultation and participation of users and workers, quality and the public service, financial sustainability with regard to employment and collective guarantees.
the present proposal for a resolution does not serve to confirm the existence of public service obligations as an added value resulting from european integration and as a means of achieving the objectives of territorial, economic, ecological and social cohesion in the european union.
to give just one example of the half-dozen or so points which point in the same direction, the report states that the european parliament 'welcomes the liberalisation of telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy, which has led to the modernisation, interconnection and integration of the sectors and to price reductions through increased competition and to the creation of almost 1 million jobs across the eu'.
where, for example, is it said that these countries 'must secure the means necessary to achieve sustainable, just and viable development, paving the way for the realization of the right to food, health, education, housing and other needs of the african people'?
an independent study of the impact of nepad on social rights, food security, access to raw materials and environmental protection would undoubtedly be the best possible incentive.
- mr president, at the beginning of 2004, the climate of security obsession has become more acute.
in addition, the environmental trauma of deforestation and flooding is adding to the suffering of this desperate people.
we must firmly encourage dialogue with civil society and ask the un to mediate in order to reach a lasting political agreement, so that the haitian people can return to the path of democracy and sustainable development.
this is necessary to allow free and fair elections to take place in the near future in a climate of security and mutual respect.
we will vote for the amendments which are aimed at improving safety, but we are against the whole of a policy based on competition, whether regulated at european level or not, but which is a source of immense waste and can only lead to disaster.
the services it will provide are very important, particularly in the field of the environment.
as a tool for nature protection, it will help to locate pollution from dangerous products, icebergs, and map oceans and sea levels.
dangerous materials such as nuclear waste can be located at any time.
we also take into account space pollution, as we will have to ensure that any new objects launched can be neutralised.
it was proposed and supported by the council and the commission, and i would like to pay tribute to commissioner palacio - transport and energy - and her director-general, mr lamoureux, and also to commissioner busquin for the energy and determination they have put into implementing it.
i thank all my colleagues for their continued interest in galileo, in particular those in the committee on transport and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy (itre).
it will contribute to the implementation of our sustainable development policy with the ethics that are essential for this major action.
the subsequent revelations of the false and false charges against iraq, a posteriori, should comfort those who denounce the ecological dangers of our planet more than stocks of weapons that are massively invisible.
i also think that there should be real sanctions for human rights violations and environmental damage.
the fight against terrorism is considered to be a top priority, whereas the fight against the greenhouse effect, aids or poverty is merely a formality.
the first concerns the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, public service and public works contracts, and the second concerns the coordination of procedures for the award of contracts for water, energy, transport and postal services.
in this competitive environment, not only are the exploited and underpaid workers in poor countries the losers, but also the workers in the so-called rich countries are thrown out by their employers.
on the one hand, the sustainability of the original institutions set up by the lomé conventions and confirmed by the cotonou convention, notably the joint parliamentary assembly, is more alive than ever, and our colleague colette flesch's report highlights the innovative developments that the joint assembly experienced in 2003, but at the same time the objectives and the content of the cooperation these institutions are supposed to implement tend to weaken, to be depleted, to be trivialised, to be fragmented, to be dissolved, to the point that there is a risk that they will soon cease to exist, if things are left to run their course, than a ceiling on financial aid and free trade agreements that could be a source of more difficulty for the acp countries than for their real development aid instruments.
if we are to help avoid these diversions, the unique north-south parliamentary forum of the joint assembly must ensure that the major negotiation of the partnership agreements is conducted with the necessary ambition and energy, particularly in the field of agriculture, which is the foundation of development.
finally, and i will end on this point, the fundamental rights of every person to health and education must remain in the public domain, just as water, transport, health and energy must remain outside the gats.
this is the ecological conditionality of aid for small farms, as their income will increasingly depend on aid, especially with decoupling.
we can make all the noise we want about the european agricultural model - multifunctional, respectful of the environment and animal welfare, guaranteeing food security, covering all our territories - but if the actors are not there to implement it, that is to say farmers with sufficient income to ensure their function, live from their activities and attract a succession, this model will remain a utopia, a mirage, a semantics, a lie.
- (fr) i voted in favour of the report because it is imperative to fight vigorously and jointly against all forms of pollution in the mediterranean.
let us not forget that more than 6 million tonnes of polluting waste are deliberately dumped into the sea every year.
the fight against pollution must in future be accompanied by a genuine preventive policy.
the latter particularly regretted that they had not been seriously involved in the preparation of the recovery plan and in the assessment of the state of the resource on which it is based, contrary to the provisions of the new framework regulation and contrary to the requirement made by our parliament, in particular in its opinion on the integration of environmental protection requirements into the cfp.
however, it is clear that the drastic reduction of tacs planned at the very beginning of the plan is not compatible with the sustainability of the companies involved in the northern hake fishery.
this approach has a long-term objective of preserving the site, while at the same time giving professionals the visibility and security they need to ensure the sustainability of their businesses.
we believe that this instrument is preferable because it is more in line with the state of the resource and will help to achieve the dual objective of sustainable conservation of the stock and conservation of fisheries.
however, we must bear in mind that all this must be in line with the objective of sustainable development, which is a factor of stability.
however, in setting these levels, the commission had to take into account the reality of the current background contamination of the environment in order not to endanger the food supply.
these maximum levels are part of a comprehensive strategy adopted by the european commission in 2001 to reduce the presence of dioxins and pcbs in the environment, in feed and in food.
however, their continued presence in fish is due to the fact that they are very persistent compounds, which can still be found in the environment.
without giving my 1996 report more importance than it deserves, its reading recalls the risks that were already in evidence: unregulated globalisation, american pressure, productions that sacrifice social and environmental values.
but its reading also recalls the imperatives for avoiding a new crisis, imperatives in terms of the social acquis and social rights, conditions for public aid, training of personnel, respect for the environment, diversification, research and the conquest of new markets and new products.
we were more consistent in rejecting the fischler reform and in the colloquium on the reconstruction of an agricultural policy in europe we proposed an agricultural model which was less subject to public intervention schemes internally and which did not receive export subsidies but was protected from outside influences, so that internal intervention prices could be set unsolicitedly and in accordance with a sustainable management of nature.
it would be a good thing, although unlike the rapporteur, we do not believe that the development of so-called sustainable agriculture and so-called organic agricultural production, which he advocates, is necessarily a real benefit for the vast majority of consumers or for small family farms.
the council regulation of 20 december 2002 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources addresses these instruments but mainly lays the foundations for a third management instrument, proposed on 27 june 2003, which sets a ceiling for fishing effort in kilowatt days.
there is one area where it would be good to support the effort: flags of convenience, because in my opinion, as long as in panama it is possible to register a ship for $ 1 500 through a lawyer acting as a front for an anonymous and very rich owner, as long as this can be done in complete discretion, threats will continue to be posed to seafarers and the environment.
as regards the polluting vessels, while we have nothing, a priori, against sharing the cost of their installation, it must be clearly reaffirmed, with regard to their management, that the responsibility and the initiative in preventing and combating marine pollution rests first and foremost with the coastal state and that the commission must intervene only as a complementary measure by applying scrupulously and in the right way the principle of subsidiarity.
but for reconstruction to become a reality and for the political process to be successful, a safe environment is needed, so that government agencies, international aid actors and civil society can join forces to rebuild the country's infrastructure and civil institutions.
the european union and the international community must also continue to actively support the many ngos which, despite the climate of insecurity, are providing considerable assistance to the afghan people.
- (fr) there is reason to welcome the new protocol which increases the resources of the international oil pollution compensation fund (iopc fund) to eur 930 million.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the oil crisis.
the supplementary fund is thus intended to ensure effective, prompt and fair compensation for future victims of oil pollution.
firstly, it is unacceptable that the calculation of compensation does not take account of the human, economic and environmental damage caused by the sinking of the prestige.
and that, for many citizens too, as regards the effect of liberalisation in areas such as rail transport - for example in a country you know well - or in energy and electricity, it does not seem very obvious that it is absolutely necessary to make the rules of competition the alpha and omega of the organisation.
we have tried to develop a political dialogue, which most recently has focused on our understandable concerns about whether iran's nuclear ambitions for energy have turned into nuclear ambitions for military purposes.
the commission would recommend arbitration according to internationally established standards along the lines of the 1992 convention on civil liability for oil pollution damage.
we intend to reserve the morning session of friday, 26 march for our annual consideration of the lisbon strategy of economic, social and environmental renewal.
it is important to note the considerable progress that has already been achieved on areas ranging from energy liberalisation to the implementation of the internal market in the financial services area.
we have identified two overarching priorities for the spring european council, namely sustainable growth and more and better jobs.
we are adopting a holistic approach to the issue of growth, recognising that we need to take action on a range of factors such as competitiveness, innovation, environmental sustainability and social inclusion if we are to make the european economy more dynamic.
each of our institutions, national governments, the council, the commission and parliament will need to see how we can provide dynamic solutions that will foster a climate in business that is more conducive to innovation.
equally, we need the commitment of trade unions to facilitate the necessary adaptation to change that is increasingly essential in a competitive, global environment.
(applause)
the commission (es) mr president, once again the commission comes to this parliament, accompanied by the presidency-in-office of the council, to discuss the economic, social and environmental policy priorities to be addressed at our spring summit.
the commission and the european council are seeking to join forces to overcome the crossborder difficulties in the development of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, but also in research, development and innovation.
other strategic reforms concern the revision of the ten guidelines and the environmental technology action plan.
our big challenge right now is how to pay more attention to growth and sustainability of public finances.
the 3% action plan has four main components: supporting the efforts of european countries and stakeholders by ensuring that they are mutually consistent; significantly improve public support for research and technological innovation; increase the level of public investment; to improve the environment for research and technological innovation in europe.
while our universities have many outstanding students, it is undeniable that they face fundamental challenges in an increasingly globalised and competitive environment.
to make our economy the most dynamic in the world means to ensure that the triangle commission, parliament and council allows the triangle economy, employment and environment to develop in an efficient and balanced way.
in this case, we must focus our efforts on high-tech sectors such as health and biotechnology, defence and space, galileo being a good example, the most modern telecommunications, or renewable energy sources.
the completion of the trans-european energy networks is also of great importance.
on the environment, we must bear in mind that our efforts to create growth and jobs must be in line with the objective of sustainable development, which is a factor of stability.
therefore, before any legislation is adopted, i think it is useful to be able to carry out a study of the impact of all eu spending on sustainability.
finally, i would like to stress the importance of the sixth community action programme in the field of the protection of natural resources and the environment, which is also intended to help implement the kyoto protocol.
we must never forget that our lisbon strategy also has clear limits: we want to have a sustainable lisbon strategy and that implies a certain degree, a certain level of social production and also a certain level of environmental protection.
one point that did strike me was the one made again and again about the necessity of creating a research environment within the europe.
it is an endeavour that deserves all of our attention, our energy and our ingenuity.
russia is a large country with which it is essential to develop economic relations in the fields of industry, research, health and energy.
sustainable, reliable and economical energy conversion can and must be based on renewable energy sources.
but the rapporteur is lucid enough to note that such a pact requires the establishment of a climate of confidence and therefore has little chance of being achieved as long as, in particular, the incomprehensible blockade imposed by turkey on armenia and ankara's stubborn denial of the armenian genocide persist.
in fact, at best they provide a favorable environment for the creative forces.
the breakdown of the basic environmental rules is due to decades of western productivism which has not relied on sustainability and has obscured a number of indicators, including the ecological indicators.
we are seeing increasing evidence of this in the form of climate change, the decline of biodiversity and the rise of pollution-related diseases.
it should be recognised that there is an urgent need to ensure an energy policy shift towards renewable, sustainable and economic sources of energy.
as evidence of the demise of these outdated ways of thinking and working, there is a need to reform the environmental tax and the underlying taxation practices and to pave the way for a new approach in the form of a common economic policy that breaks the unholy alliance between economic growth and the use of resources.
finally, we cannot accept that the environment should be the only priority area in the context of the sustainable development of europe's economy.
i note in particular that development aid funds for improved reproductive health services are not increasing sufficiently, that the hiv/aids pandemic is devastating social and economic structures and that the global political climate is hampering progress in reproductive health.
this will be essential for creating a business environment where legal players are not disturbed by counterfeiters and pirates.
in particular, i would like to thank the very competent rapporteur, mrs fourtou, the shadow rapporteur, mrs mccarthy, and the chairman of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, mr berenguer fuster, for their very professional and efficient guidance within their institution.
in addition to the council and the commission, your rapporteur, the rapporteur for opinion, the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the non-attached rapporteurs, who i thank for their help and diligence, have also taken part in this procedure.
i hear mrs voynet declaring her faith in europe by creating a european environmental party and expressing her concern at the lack of love for europe among the citizens.
it is therefore with good reason that the report is expected to include relevant considerations on economic growth, the immigrant area, urban planning policy or even environmental policy, since several issues were discussed and dealt with at the cairo conference.
of course, simplification of the regulatory environment will require careful consideration of whether harmonisation at european level is really necessary!
the link between human health and the quality of our environment is indeed a top priority and we need to understand this link better in order to assess the effectiveness of existing policies and ensure that we address the problem adequately.
in a global sense the links between environment and health are addressed in the communication on a european environmental and health strategy adopted by the commission last year.
in this communication we announced the establishment of a european environment and health monitoring and response system to link information on health effects, exposure to environmental contamination and the emissions responsible for contamination.
the environment and health strategy is therefore being developed for an enlarged union, fully involving the new member states from the outset.
the commission will now work on presenting an action plan setting out the programme for a first phase, focusing on selected priority diseases and pollutants at the ministerial conference on environment and health in budapest on 23-25 june.
for example, under the quality of life and management of living resources programme, which is part of the fifth framework programme for research, a specific key action on environment and health provided support for 16 multidisciplinary multinational research projects devoted to air pollution.
such studies foster the development of protective measures and feed into the process of regulating pollutant emissions by revealing the causal links between pollutants and health effects and providing tools for measuring exposure and effects.
the commission's joint research centre is also contributing to increasing our understanding of the link between environment and health in various ways.
as far as air pollution is concerned, the framework for doing this will be the thematic strategy on air pollution, due to be adopted next year, which is currently in preparation through the commission's clean air for europe programme – 'cafe'.
this programme includes a very broad survey on the health effects of air pollution, the expected evolution of air quality between now and 2020, the effectiveness of existing policy and the potential for taking further cost-effective measures to reduce emissions.
it is also worth noting that it has been difficult to recognise this link between health and the environment, which has often been used as an excuse for doing nothing.
today it seems to me - and this worries me greatly - that some colleagues and politicians are still looking for excuses for not acting and are using the excessive cost of investing in the environment as an excuse.
today, indeed, there is no longer any need to prove that links exist between health and the environment, or between poor health and a poor environment.
members of the european parliament's agriculture committee expressed their preference for a greater transfer of agricultural funds intended for the market to rural development actions, in particular to improve the environment and quality production.
finally, the commission document proposes a bold new definition of another key idea of the lisbon strategy: 'the sustainable development approach is beginning to be taken into account in policy-making.
if this is sustainable development, then there is no doubt that the council is full of environmentalists.
the stability pact must be respected, pension and healthcare reforms must be pursued, environmental policy must be cost-effective and even the most cost-effective areas of education and training must be identified.
it is clear that the european idea can only be saved by a clear commitment to break with this machine for human waste and despair.
it is a real human, ecological and political catastrophe.
the judgments of the court of justice have made it possible to identify two essential characteristics which must be met by such benefits in order to be considered as non-exportable and thus to derogate from the general principle of the exportability of social benefits: their special nature in the state concerned, the fact that they are received in a situation of non-contributibility of the recipient - in other words, the fact that they are paid free of charge and on the basis of the general taxation of the state concerned - and, finally, a complementary element, the fact that the amount is a function of the minimum income necessary to live in the economic environment of the country granting them.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it is surprising, to say the least, to see that, although everyone agrees that no one is ready in a wide range of areas (necessary economic reforms, corruption, human rights, political institutions, environmental and social standards, etc.
- the next item is the statement by the commission on the impact of active low-frequency sonar on the marine environment.
at a time when our societies are increasingly demanding environmentally friendly solutions, we need to prove that europe, in continuity with the lisbon objectives, is capable of being a world leader in sustainable technologies.
in conclusion, it is imperative from the point of view of environmentally, socially and economically sustainable development that we make full use of our capacities as european parliamentarians to influence, by all means at our disposal, the fundamental collective choices that are taking place in the field of the arms industries.
but as the enlargement process shows, there is no better foundation for the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the environment than within our european union, not on its doorstep.
however, our requests for full information on the economic dimensions of the company, on social and environmental impacts were rejected by the council and referred to a subsequent directive, as were our requirements for information on the remuneration of company directors.
i refer in particular to amendments nos 16, 19, 21, 24, 25, 28, 29, 34, 40 and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i have consistently said that i would look at this matter with a view to supporting a legally sustainable text.
- mr. president, doctors have known since hippocrates that our health is dependent on our environment.
however, it is clear that the environment, in the broadest sense, plays a major role.
our physical environment is thus one of the main risk factors for the health of citizens.
it is especially necessary, and this is already the case, to take better account of the immediate environment which causes thousands of cancers.
chemical substances, electromagnetic waves and traffic-related urban and air pollution are major public health issues in europe.
on the other hand, we respected the choice of the executive commission to offer the possibility of litigation to non-governmental organisations active in the field of the environment, while opening this avenue more widely to qualified entities with legal personality.
in the same spirit, we have made the objective of promoting sustainable development an essential condition in their statute for the exercise of the right to a fair trial.
moreover, it is not conceivable to introduce a specific mechanism, a kind of privileged right to litigation in environmental matters, which would be easier and less costly.
it is essential that access to justice issues are dealt with in a comprehensive and coherent way in all areas, and not just specifically in the field of the environment.
finally, i think we have reached a fair compromise which aims to promote, in accordance with the provisions of the aarhus convention, the effective implementation of community environmental legislation.
but to be effective, the convention must be modern and involve all those who contribute to improving the environment in europe.
it is therefore appropriate to introduce a specific reference to the concept of sustainable development.
it would be inconsistent to want to be satisfied with a too restrictive definition of environmental law and thus to exclude entire sectors of activity which, however, play an active part in the achievement of our environmental objectives.
in addition, to ensure sustainable development, i propose not to reserve the capacity to act to ngos alone, but to involve rural managers - landowners, farmers, foresters, businesses, etc.
finally, our policy action must be coherent, effective and sustainable.
we have used the existing directives, in particular the framework directive on waste and the directive on the landfill of waste.
but it was not enough, especially when the extractive industries produce such large quantities of waste.
the many harmful effects on the environment of poor management can be imagined.
i know that there has been some disagreement about the categorisation of waste.
the main thing is to establish the criteria for the definitions of hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
it is also important to be forward-looking and to encourage the promotion of more sustainable production with reduced waste.
the importance of protecting and managing the resource base of economic and social development was reaffirmed by heads of state and government at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in september 2002. raw materials, such as minerals and petroleum, provide the foundations for economic growth and well-being, both in industry and in our everyday lives.
while mineral extraction makes a substantial contribution to economic development, the benefits must be balanced by measures to foster the environmental and social pillars of sustainable development through good governance.
in recognition of the need to balance these demands, actions were agreed in relation to managing the natural resource base in a sustainable and integrated manner.
the world bank is not alone in recognising the need to address all elements of sustainable development.
in many ways this review parallels work carried out by the european union in recent years, such as strengthening the governance of mining through, for example, amendment of the seveso directive and a proposed new directive on the management of extractive industry waste – an issue that is of concern right across the union.
the european union is also taking forward policy on sustainable development through initiatives such as the planned thematic strategy on sustainable use of natural resources.
at its meeting on 2 march, the council of environment ministers gave broad policy orientations in relation to the future development of the thematic strategy.
detailed environmental protection measures in the extractive industries review include proposals such as closure planning and guidelines on tailings management in extractive industries.
nevertheless, our work in europe will make a useful contribution to better environmental practice and standards in managing mining waste, as well as the cyanide code of practice developed by the unep through multi-stakeholder consultation and participation.
we support the conclusions of the johannesburg summit and the plan of implementation, including the specific commitments in relation to the mining, minerals, metals and energy sectors.
we also support the promotion of corporate responsibility and accountability, and the exchange of best practices in the context of sustainable development.
climate change remains one of the most significant environmental concerns for the union.
as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and ratifiers of the kyoto protocol, the european community and its member states are eager to ensure that the activities of the world bank are in harmony with the european union’s objective of stabilising greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere at safe levels.
according to the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change, global emissions of greenhouse gases will need to be drastically cut over the rest of this century if this goal is to be achieved.
the recommendations of the extractive industries review in this regard are consistent with a recognised need to move to less carbon-intensive sources of energy.
the promotion of cleaner and less greenhouse-gas-emitting energy sources in developing countries, with a particular focus on the promotion of renewable sources of energy, are in keeping with meeting the objectives of the eu’s long-term climate change objectives.
the european union’s progressive approach to sustainable development is well known, and we also anticipate a response from the world bank that will be consistent with its overall mission, in particular in poverty reduction and the promotion of sustainable development.
in addition, increasing environmental concerns within the european union have led to the generalisation of the use of environmental impact assessments since the 1990s.
it recently announced an agreement to strengthen common approaches for evaluating the environmental impact of infrastructure projects supported by the export credit agencies of oecd governments to ensure that they meet established international standards.
as parliament is aware, the european union launched an 'eu energy initiative for poverty eradication and sustainable development' at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in september 2002. the initiative’s secretariat is housed within the commission.
it aims to respond to the very issues raised by parliament, by contributing to providing the access to energy necessary for the achievement of the millennium development goals.
this objective will be achieved within the context of activities driven by participating developing countries, through the provision of adequate, affordable, sustainable energy services.
although the initiative does not have a technology focus, it strives to promote the provision of affordable and sustainable energy services.
in doing so, it seeks to promote the choice of the most economic solutions on the basis of economic, social and environmental impacts.
the commission also houses the secretariat of the johannesburg renewable energy coalition.
this coalition aims to enhance renewable energy deployment within developing countries.
let me conclude by assuring you that the commission supports the call for the full implementation of the recommendations of the extractive industries review, which relate to the sustainability of investments, the promotion of good governance, popular consent, social and environmental impact assessment and the respect of human rights and core labour standards.
- mr president, after the un report on the situation in the congo and the us government report on global warming, it is now a report commissioned by the world bank itself that confirms the fears long expressed by the greens.
the commission also points out the shortcomings of the world bank's environmental and social surveillance activities.
the mine, operated by an american company, flattened five mountains, displaced thousands of people and caused cyanide pollution of water throughout the region.
the world bank also supported the chad-cameroon oil pipeline, which we were the only ones to fight and which had disastrous social and environmental consequences: mass migration, increased food insecurity, increased prostitution leading to the spread of aids.
in countries where corruption is still high, legal frameworks are unreliable and democratic practices are uncertain, the world bank is unfortunately not doing anything to promote sustainable development.
the greens, in line with the study's recommendations, advocate the cessation of financing for oil projects by 2008, the cessation of financing for coal mines to combat greenhouse gases, the promotion of clean and renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we are appalled by this lack of coordination in the council and by this disregard for parliament and the representatives of the peoples of europe, not to mention the energy and time wasted as a result.
on the contrary, it would be more appropriate to use the edf for actions aimed at improving public health policies or preventing environmental damage, for example.
they bear the brunt of the massive pollution that occurs in the summer from the thousands and thousands of caravans of tourists from northern europe who every day empty their waste water with phosphates and even harmful bacteria in the lagoons of languedoc and catalonia.
for the mediterranean and its fishermen, oyster fishermen and shellfish fishermen, europe means restrictions and pollution without compensation.
so to save the stocks and ensure a sustainable recovery, we need to limit the fishing effort of our seamen.
the latter will then be able to assume a genuine management role as closely as possible to the economic, social and environmental challenges of the cfp.
the latter will then be able to assume a genuine management role as closely as possible to the economic, social and environmental challenges of the cfp.
as elsewhere, we pretend to be implementing the copenhagen criteria, assuming that we will have a sustainable market economy, even though the abolition of safeguard measures by the member states and their lack of social commitment have fuelled poverty, unemployment and trade deficits.
paragraph 3 of the report gives a good example of this when it suggests that states could be condemned if they tolerate, i quote, a climate or social conditions in which people feel threatened.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers.
to deliver an improved regulatory environment for payments, remaining legal and technical barriers to intra-eu payments should be identified and removed.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports:- a5-0213/2004 by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the amendment of the legal basis and the general orientation of the council with a view to adopting a council directive on measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply (15769/2003 - c5-0027/2004 - 2002/0220 ((cod)) and- a5-0254/2004 by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the conditions for access to the gas transmission networks (com (2003) 741 - c5-0446/2003 - 2003/0230 ((cod)).
and now, ladies and gentlemen, briefly, given that this is the last debate this parliament will have on fundamental energy issues - although there is still a debate on ecodesign, which turns out to be a somewhat tangential issue where industry and energy come together - and as we have seen ourselves here as usual, because in the end we are always the same ones who speak, madam president, i would like to take this opportunity not only to congratulate the rapporteur of the text we are discussing - mr seppänen - but also to thank all of you for your contribution, your support, the contributions which have been taken into account and included in many of the proposals we have formulated over the years and the constructive work and the exchange which i believe have considerably improved most of the proposals we have brought to this parliament and the overall support which i have always had from the commission and from you and from this house.
not only the approval of the green paper by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but also the very important report on the green paper by this parliament and the conclusions drawn from it, the gas and electricity liberalisation packages, with essential additions, such as access to the networks that we are now finishing, but already with a timetable, which - as mr linkohr, mr rapkay and some other speakers have said - we would all like to have been even faster.
i should like to point out that not only the liberalization of gas and electricity, but also the proposal for transeuropean energy networks, which makes it possible to make this internal energy market in europe a reality from the point of view of infrastructure, and which we have already approved for the current union, but which we are already well advanced in its discussion for the enlarged union.
we have worked as never before in the debate and in the drive for energy and the environment.
so, the promotion of renewable energy, the energy efficiency of buildings, the whole issue of biofuels, the creation of smart energy, the issue of ecodesign, energy efficiency.
they wished to thank the excellent cooperation with the european parliament and in particular with the members of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy.
i think i can say on behalf of the members of the committee and the whole of the european parliament how much we have also appreciated working with you on energy and other matters.
- the next item is the report (a5-0171/2004) by mr thors, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-using products and amending council directive 92/42/eec.
(es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs thors, and the rapporteur on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, mr turmes, on their work and to thank them for their speeches.
i think we are facing a major initiative which can really help to achieve the objective of disconnecting growth from increased energy consumption.
we can achieve significant savings in energy consumption and i believe that, as several honourable members have pointed out, the approach of a global view of the whole process is the right one so that we do not cheat ourselves.
- the next item is the report (a5-0154/2004) by mr de roo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending the directive on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community, as regards the project mechanisms of the kyoto protocol (com (2003) 403 - c5-0355/2003 - 2002/0173 (cod)).
we cannot accept that there are still causes of chronic pollution and that they are gradually being ignored in an attempt to escape the responsibilities of the spanish state in this area.
there are two schools of thought on this issue: those who want pollution rights and those who want insurance.
the worrying situation of some new member states with regard to the implementation of international and european legislation on maritime safety seems to me to be conducive to the production of a rapid and exhaustive expertise, especially as one can question the relative inaction of the council with regard to criminal sanctions in the event of marine pollution.
the report as amended is thus in favour of preventive action and calls for both the joint construction of large pollution-removal vessels and the permanent equipping of fishing fleets with oil recovery trawls.
i would remind you that one tonne of fuel oil recovered at sea is 10 tonnes less waste to be treated.
or when he advocates the creation of an integrated european coastguard system, which he refrains from specifying who would finance and command it, but which would have multiple functions: those, intermingled, of ensuring maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment, of monitoring fishermen, of fighting terrorism or of designating anchorages or emergency ports in the event of a maritime accident.
first of all, we must be aware of all forms of pollution, because there are maritime disasters, but unfortunately there are also permanent pollutions, especially those caused by the daily release of gases.
of course, transport emissions are increasing because it is by far the most efficient way of transporting people and goods.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) production for profit, without regard for the environment, has such serious consequences that it can threaten the very survival of man that the international institutions are beginning to address the problem in a number of areas and to adopt legislation, in particular setting quotas to limit greenhouse gas emissions.
but pollution control quotas also become commodities that can be bought or sold, thereby giving the right to pollution that the richest countries can buy from the poorest countries.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) no one can deny today that road transport has been left to the liberal barbarism at the expense of the working conditions of the wage earners, road safety and the environment.
in this area, like so many others, i am an advocate for social and environmental improvements.
in this context, our common objective must be to commit the union to a sustainable regional policy, as opposed to a strictly cyclical regional policy.
but we must continue to help them by improving their environment.
- (fr) we voted against the resolution supporting the annan plan, whose imbalance and injustice are obvious and which will not be able to provide a solid and sustainable basis for the solution of the cyprus problem.
without the will to do so, we will continue to witness the human, social and environmental devastation of the region.
the reason why we did not vote either for or against the sterckx report in the end is that a number of positive amendments were adopted which improve the text of the report, particularly with regard to the need to ban the flag of convenience in european waters and, in the event of oil pollution, to offer full compensation to all involved in the context of a thoroughly restructured imo.
the list is long, whether it is collective security, human rights, development or environmental protection.
in the words of the 2003 annual report of the fidh observatory: 'the current security climate and the arbitrary deviations that are associated with it continue to undermine the principles enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights.
it was in this climate of fear and questioning that the bush administration launched its anti-terrorist crusade with, in fact, the sole purpose of ensuring the economic, and therefore military, hegemony of its empire in a globalized liberal economy.
we must tackle the root causes of the problem, a social system dominated solely by profit, which turns people into commodities, a regime that destroys the environment and excludes from work, from the health or education system, from housing, even from basic food, billions of human beings.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the report by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a very good report.
in a more general way, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a few comments on our main objective, namely the objective of sustainable mobility, that is to say, the development of railways and waterways, rather than succumbing to the inflation of cars, which will one day pose us with serious political problems.
but as this is our last sitting and i will probably not be present in the next parliament, i would unfortunately like to emphasize what we have always defended with our epp colleagues in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
as you are no doubt aware, the objective is to make the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
the report stressed the urgent need for concrete action by taking decisive action in the areas of taxation, social affairs, the environment, research and innovation, in all areas, including job creation, while taking account of globalisation and the ageing population.
i also regret, mr president, that after yesterday's votes, which were as important as those on the environmental life cycle, tyres, marmalades and cream of brown - all equally important votes - we are obliged to discuss employment policy now, in the absence of the council.
you are indeed making a report on the guidelines, a legislative report, but you cannot amend it because the guidelines have been fixed for three years, as if the environmental context, the international, sociological, financial and fiscal context were not changing in this matter.
these regions have immense resources and require special attention to agriculture (breeding and support for young farmers) and the development of sustainable tourism, specific support for smes (avoiding depopulation and maintaining employment) and the preservation of services.
you know the concern of some of our neighbours and friends across the mediterranean that our union is devoting too much of its energy and resources to the achievement of its new internal unity, to the detriment of the interest it should continue to have in their own future.
continual enlargement will never be a sustainable answer to the question of how to live with europe's neighbours.
many of the components of the economic coordination framework are closely linked to the overall lisbon strategy, a strategy of structural reforms with economic, social and environmental dimensions.
it is guided by the lisbon strategic objective, according to which europe must strive to become a more competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
this enlargement has taken place in the face of uncertainties in the international situation, security problems and the preservation of our common social and environmental models: all of these are emergencies that must be addressed.
to achieve this, we must do everything we can to promote performance and competitiveness for sustainable growth.
to develop the investment effort, because when the european union has a euro, this euro must not only be spent, it must be invested, invested to encourage innovation, to develop research, to make our smes sustainable, to promote the transfer of enterprises.
directive after directive has been passed on opening up postal, energy, air and rail transport to competition, with the refusal to make a serious assessment of its consequences for employment, the environment and prices.
so, mr president, mr prodi, i would like to thank you very sincerely for recalling the major political guidelines decided jointly, and often pushed forward by our parliament, as you said, and for putting sustainable development back at the heart of the european project, because these political decisions were taken by all the heads of state in agreement with the commission.
the social environment and the economy are definitely linked and must guide our proposals.
it is a very dangerous process in which the commission is putting itself above the countries by their tacit acceptance of a matter which is essential to the health of the citizens and the environment of our countries.
europe needs a strategy for sustainable growth and employment and investment in research, major transeuropean networks, education, knowledge and the environment more than ever.
however, some are trying to use the current economic downturn as a pretext to return to an ultra-liberal agenda and to destroy the lisbon acquis and the integration of the various economic, social and environmental dimensions into the union's policies.
and in reality, for you, public investment policies, social and environmental rules are all obstacles, undue burdens and brakes to growth.
i believe mr barroso, it will be wonderful, we will all be in solidarity, development will be sustainable, the environment will be respected, europe will be strong but cautious, europe will be for multilateralism, in short, in five years we will all be able to retire because paradise will be achieved for everyone, and politics will be able to close its doors.
when we know that last year six million - i said six million - people died of aids, tuberculosis and malaria, that global warming is accelerating much faster than the measures envisaged to contain it, and that these measures are not being respected, that there is a deficit of one billion jobs and that one in six people does not have access to clean water, that war is raging in the middle east, is continuing in chechnya, is bleeding darfur, we have a duty, at all levels of decision-making in europe, to look beyond the market and beyond simple atlantic solidarity.
they expect europe to lead by example in environmental matters.
i get the impression that you're not convinced that climate change is challenging our growth model; or that global warming will have unspeakable consequences for the european and global economies; or that the energy crisis, if oil runs out, as hubert's peak theory confirms, could lead to conflicts that extend to our own peaceful territories; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
indeed, if you meet the former, you are for sustainable development; if you meet the latter, you are for the market; if you meet the latter, you are for the social; if you meet god, you are for god; and if you meet the secular, you are against what god says in the european constitution.
in addition to contributing to climate change by emitting massive amounts of carbon dioxide, forest fires are gradually reducing the size of our forests and the union's carbon sink capacity.
i am thinking also of the increasingly worrying problem of global warming and the very topical issue of media concentration in several countries of the union.
we appreciated her energy, her determination, the courage with which she expressed a number of opinions and took positions.
could the effects of rapid enlargement be smoothed out in terms of environmental standards?
so in the face of this, i believe that the european union has major responsibilities and must launch, at the global level and therefore within the un, a totally different energy policy, which is fair, sustainable and aimed at really serving the people, and this through the political actors, the oil companies and civil society.
of course we must give our massive support to other energy policies both at home and in these countries, and europe must also be much more demanding, much more vigilant about the support given by the major international donors to a number of oil projects, notably the chad-cameroon pipeline.
the israeli population now lives in a climate of fear, division and conflict, while gaza, besieged and exhausted, is poised to become another time bomb.
we regret that our proposal to deduct from the deficit account investment corresponding to the objectives of göteborg and kyoto: energy savings, large public transport networks, renewable energies, has not been considered.
or, we must bear in mind that, besides ageing, climate change is the main debt that is being left to future generations.
secondly, we are also concerned about the sustainability of debt and at the same time we want to ensure that the ageing population is not used as a pretext for pushing member states to privatise social systems, especially pension systems.
the lisbon strategy will succeed if it is based on a strategy for full employment and sustainable development based on research and knowledge.
the communication of 3 september is based on principles which we approve of: allowing the commission to issue early warnings, focusing on the level of debt, building up budget surpluses in a high-conjunction environment to allow itself room for manoeuvre to deal with the slowdown in activity - this is the squirrel strategy - taking account of exceptional circumstances, a notion which the council of ministers must rigorously frame and, finally, coordinating the major economic policy objectives with the decisions of national parliaments.
president, the eu's policy on climate change is clearly reflected in the eu's external relations.
the council regularly addresses climate change and related issues, and in doing so it has repeatedly reaffirmed the particular importance of the early entry into force of the kyoto protocol.
i would also like to remind you, mr president, that sustainable development, of which climate policy is of course a very important part, is a concept that is present in all sectors of cooperation with third countries, for example the cotonou agreement with the acp countries.
but it's really obvious: if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that's where we have to start.
having personally followed the work here in parliament on the action plan for the conservation of biodiversity and the work on the convention on biodiversity, i can say that biodiversity is clearly the poor relation of our environmental policies.
i would even say that this is definitely the weakest link in sustainable development.
to call for a european tender for 50 kilometres is a waste of time and money: these are technocratic decisions which are contrary to common sense.
in the field of the environment, major progress has been made with the entry into force of the kyoto protocol, the water framework directive, the waste reduction and recycling directive.
all these advances show how you have been able to put the european citizen at the heart of your concerns, in order to ensure a better environment for him.
we will not be effective if we cannot build a climate of trust among the 25 member states which will lead to more effective cooperation between the security forces in preventing terrorist attacks and in combating terrorism in general.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
how can we impose environmental standards, social constraints and solidarity obligations on our companies while exposing them to competition that does not impose any of these burdens?
in particular, the european union must not impose any additional regulatory constraints that are not strictly proportionate to the real needs of the environment and safety.
in close cooperation with industry, we must now move from the battle for the reduction of polluting emissions, which is about to be won, to a new priority, the reduction of co2 emissions.
the community's discourse, which is almost exclusively oriented towards, i quote, 'the sustainable management of fisheries resources in order to safeguard the interests of future generations', is no longer credible as it stands, since it risks leading to a situation in which the european union would no longer be able to exploit this resource for lack of professionals to take charge of it.
thirdly, i agree completely and completely with all those of you who have insisted on the need to continue to look at the need for energy efficiency and policies to reduce our dependence on oil as an energy source.
i believe that the european union has made important progress in this area over the last 20 or 25 years and that we must continue to deepen this progress and intensify, as far as necessary - and i believe that in some respects it is clearly necessary - common action at european level in energy policy.
for example, if i were to tell you that if the price of oil were to remain at $50 a barrel for the next two years, until the end of 2006, this would have an impact on the european union economy around a point of reducing growth, in the united states economy the impact would be much higher, because its degree of energy dependence on oil as a primary source of energy is much higher than that of the countries of the european union.
so it is true that the commission has to take initiatives and the new commission - which i hope will be confirmed next wednesday - will, as you know, not only have a new commissioner for agriculture - new in this case - but also a commissioner specifically dedicated to fisheries, mr borg, and a new commissioner for energy, as the honourable member said.
finally, we are all aware that we will have to continue discussing this issue in the coming months, but i repeat what i said at the beginning, we must do so with the awareness that, structurally, the oil market will never be the same as it was ten, twenty or twenty-five years ago, not least because there are new energy-consuming countries with extraordinary economic power and a very strong level of growth, but the lines along which european energy policy has been running are sound lines that must not be corrected in their direction but intensified in their power.
if there is an environment commissioner who does not know his files too well, no problem, mr barroso is there.
if there is an energy commissioner who does not know the technical of the files, no problem, there are evening classes, he will go to the course of catching up.
by appointing a free-trade tenor in international trade who does not hesitate to announce that he is counting on competition to improve the performance of public services; the commission's proposal to the council of ministers to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from the adverse effects of pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources, and to amend the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from the adverse effects of nitrates from agricultural sources, is a step in the right direction.
it is in the context of this fundamental challenge to mr barroso's economic, social and environmental choices that the buttiglione bomb exploded.
mr dimas, the environment minister, refuses to see the sword of damocles hanging over our heads.
climate change and the consequences of the waste of the planet force us to think differently than pure productivism, to govern differently than pure liberalism.
sustainable and ecological development is necessary, whether we like it or not.
it is clear that the amendments voted or rejected have exactly reversed the meaning of my report, since our parliament considers that it is not desirable for living beings to appear on the future banknotes of the european union, that the causes of our difficulties lie in the short working hours in europe and that, contrary to article 2 of the treaty, the central bank should not be concerned with sustainable growth.
(parliament adopted the resolution) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers, in particular by ensuring that the protection of the environment is not restricted to the minimum necessary, and by ensuring that the protection of the health of workers is not restricted to the minimum necessary.
on the forthcoming presidential elections in ukraine (parliament adopted the joint resolution) motion for a resolution (b6-0089/2004) by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the environmental impact of high-intensity active sonar from ships (parliament adopted the joint resolution)
there are no more explanations of vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on sunday 7 november sébastien briard was killed by a train carrying highly radioactive nuclear waste.
it is therefore vital for the sustainable development of these countries to limit the flow of arms imports very significantly.
i welcome the council's intention to reform this code of conduct and i urge it to use its considerable energy to prevent such statements, which are clearly undermining the credibility of many of the european union's human rights policies.
mr president, with climate change, humanity is faced with a challenge to civilization, since it is a question of the preservation of species and the great natural balances.
the increase in extreme weather events confirms that the effects of global warming are already being felt.
we must draw the political consequences from the work of scientists and, in particular, from the report of the european environment agency, which details the multiple impacts of global warming in europe, which, it should be remembered, is certainly the smallest of the world's continents, but also the one with the largest number of sea facades.
at the initiative of the french national observatory on the effects of climate change, which i chair, the 155 maritime peripheral regions of europe and the mediterranean have already decided to meet in 2005 in marseille to discuss the issue of adaptation.
we count on the support of the commission in this process, which can contribute to the development of a genuine european strategy for adaptation to the current climate change.
this has become an essential part of the community's climate change action programme and now needs to be extended.
we welcome the reaffirmation of the need to maintain the balance between the three dimensions of the lisbon strategy: economic, social and environmental.
we are convinced that more growth and competitiveness of the european economy is essential to the preservation of the european social and environmental model.
but we still have to debate the link between these dimensions and the conditions for sustainable growth in europe.
we are therefore convinced that investment in human capital, in a high level of lifelong training for workers, in the quality of public services and in european environmental standards, in good social dialogue, are all productive factors, factors of competitiveness and also conditions for the acceptance of reforms when they are needed.
the main target was the competition, internal market, external trade, agriculture, environment and a few others, in addition to the freedoms, security and justice portfolio.
the disappearance of small and mediumsized farms due to persistent unfair premiums; trade wars which have little to do with the fair competition we are told about elsewhere; the degradation of the environment, soil and water; the cap's balance sheet is very heavy for us.
however, neither mr kovács, the ex-stalinist who was judged by the energy committee to be totally incompetent, nor mrs fischer boel and mrs kroes, who were hit by potential conflicts of interest, were replaced.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the european year of the environment.
that is why we believe that we need a profound reform of not only france's but also the european union's african policy, which includes in particular the issues of economic development and sustainable development in the foreign policy we pursue towards these countries.
let's not waste this chance.
i would also add to what mrs prets said that support for intercultural dialogue will continue to increase and that anyone who can orientate himself in the wider cultural environment, who knows the language and culture of the country, has a certain comparative advantage.
in this connection, a number of speeches have taken a purely rhetorical approach to the link between the economic, social and environmental dimensions, which i believe conceals a real difference in approach.
and we believe, on the contrary, that investment in social services, investment in public services and infrastructure and a high level of environmental standards can be productive factors, can be factors of competitiveness, can be assets for success in international competition from the point of view of the european union.
so we take this interdependence between the economy, the social and the environment seriously.
i would add that the new efforts, the necessity of which is recognized by everyone, in favour of employment, education, training, research and the environment require substantial funds, unless we consider that these new efforts are reserved for a few profitable niches and a privileged elite.
transforming the european union into a dynamic knowledge-based economy, pursuing greater cohesion in the context of the enlargement of the european union, preserving and managing the european union's natural resources – including agriculture, fisheries and the environment – and developing the area of freedom, security and justice and the role of the union as a global partner.
we all want to reduce costs, we all want to reduce waste, we all want to reduce pollution, but i think the issue today is where the european parliament is located.
successful enlargement, ensuring cohesion - a symbol of our solidarity policy - not forgetting the still disadvantaged regions of the former europe of the fifteen, respecting the commitments of the cap, natura 2000 and, above all, achieving the lisbon objectives of competitiveness, research, employment, training, environmental policy and health, while taking into account the ageing of the population.
be prepared, commissioner, to defend such positions with energy.
but in the meantime, it is our duty to aim at local integration and settlement in the host country by strengthening protection capacities and establishing a programme for sustainable solutions.
we cannot have the ambition to strengthen social cohesion, to support competitiveness, employment, research and environmental policy, we cannot take account of the ageing population, in short, respect the lisbon strategy, we cannot fight terrorism, drugs and crime without having the necessary means.
but we need to implement the legislation adopted, particularly on the free movement of goods and capital, financial control, the environment, industrial production, regional policy and justice and home affairs.