mr president, like others i welcome these reports on combating ship-source pollution.
we have to consider the consequences for citizens who live close to pollution disaster areas.
we are no longer prepared to put up with reckless behaviour, which too often has resulted in irreparable damage to the environment.
nevertheless, it is necessary to differentiate between intentional and accidental pollution.
to paraphrase william shakespeare, i come not to bury radioactive waste but to praise nuclear energy: that is to say, to provide a reminder that nuclear energy is vitally important to european electricity and, therefore, our people must have great confidence in the safety standards applied to its generation.
however, what a directive can do is to change the perception individuals have of nuclear energy and their judgment as to whether or not it is safe.
i also welcome the principle involved in the proposal on decommissioning waste – the principle of setting deadlines for adopting a programme and choosing a site.
although she was actually speaking to mrs ahern, i hope that whatever happens to kyoto, we would pursue policies on a no-regrets basis, which, apart from helping the climate, make complete business sense.
i believe that technical advancement in other forms of energy, including perhaps nuclear fusion, make the future very unsure.
we are talking about the present, namely the present dangers of nuclear accidents and the present uncertainty surrounding the disposal of existing radioactive waste.
as far as radioactive waste is concerned, there is no agreed solution.
- conservative members believe that pollution from ships is a problem that must be solved.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, today's vote on nuclear waste is most timely, given that research recently showed that over half the uk sites identified as potential nuclear dumps are located in scotland.
my group today voted against the nuclear package because it offers nothing in terms of environmental safety.
the scottish national party's vision of an independent scotland is one of a clean, green scotland profiting from our natural heritage and healthy environment.
london, by contrast, seems to think that the rule when considering nuclear-waste dumps should be 'the further away the better', and regards scotland as the ideal place.
it is also a matter of great concern to the commission, in line with the global commitment to stop biodiversity loss by 2010. we therefore welcome the report from mr de rossa, which i find balanced and to the point.
this crisis can be taken up in the context of natural resources, rural development or governance issues, or as a cross-cutting issue to be addressed inter alia through environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental assessments.
in this respect, i am happy to inform you that the manual for ‘integrating environment concerns into development and economic cooperation’ will be finalised and made operational during the first half of this year.
the revised manual should go a long way to ensuring that proper attention is given to bushmeat issues in environmental assessments and therefore in all our relevant development activities.
the mid-term reviews of our cooperation strategies this year will be used to strengthen the integration of environmental concerns, in particular through promoting a more systematic use of country environmental profiles, strategic environmental assessments and as previously mentioned, environmental impact assessments.
i would make this number one on the list of priorities and, in fact, i regard a peace dividend for the environment and for the bushmeat crisis as one of the many important aspects for securing peace in the drc and elsewhere in the region.
both the ec strategy for integrating environmental into economic and development cooperation and the biodiversity action plan for development cooperation are being reviewed this year.
although spending on the environment as a percentage of the total aid programme is quite low, we have invested considerably in environmental protection and management in key countries.
commercial hunting, the exploitation of timber and the opening-up of the forests are destroying the ecological balance and depriving local inhabitants of their food and livelihood.
secondly, the totally indiscriminate killing of great ape species will wipe out gorillas and chimpanzees, which in countries such as rwanda are a major sustainable tourist attraction and source of income that will be lost forever.
there is a reasonably large number of residents and citizens from the european union, and from african and south american countries who, perhaps legitimately, want to consume this if it can be provided on a sustainable basis.
equally, the eldr group amendment is a contradiction in terms: there is no such thing as a sustainable level of hunting for critically endangered species.
analysis of these activities demands a better understanding of the contribution which, as the commissioner said, conflict and weak governance in particular make to this problem, and we in the european union, as donors, should perhaps be more serious about supporting conservation and biodiversity projects.
they tell us, and we have had discussions with them, about the importance – also emphasised by the commissioner – their governments must attach to the priority of making sustainable management and conservation of natural resources a clear part of their national indicative programmes.
as far as regional fisheries organisations are concerned, i can only confirm that i am interested in strengthening the community's interests in the context of regional fisheries organisations in the interests of sustainable fisheries.
thirdly, we need a medium- and long-term strategy for the sustainable management of resources.
in addition, the sustainable development intergroup organised a seminar in brussels last november entitled 'tuna fleet and industry: prospects for the future', at which we had a wide range of international speakers.
this report highlights conservation-friendly approaches and i welcome it as a basis for sustainable fishing.
we can only support sustainable and responsible fishing.
we must work for a more sustainable industry in the future.
the commission has put a great deal of energy and effort into this process, as have the syrians.
i have no doubt that if we can come off with a strong and sensible agreement with syria – the last piece in the jigsaw puzzle of our euro-mediterranean partnership – then everybody will benefit from that: everybody who wants to see a more prosperous future in the region, everybody who wants to avoid a clash of civilisations between the european, north american and islamic worlds and everybody who wants to see terrorism and insecurity tackled in the most effective and sustainable way.
that is why it is important to refocus eu aid and to go back to the basics of life such as water and access to energy, because these people are already spending their whole day looking for water and firewood to cook their next meal.
however, my enthusiasm is tempered by the reality that liberalisation in areas such as medicine, legal and fiscal advice and employment agencies, whilst worthy, is essentially a distraction from the big picture of further liberalisation in the telecommunications, energy and financial services sectors.
the amendments relating to mr nobilia's report, drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, were voted in blocks.
however, labour members of parliament believe that there is a need for standardisation of services and protection of workers' rights and other social, environmental and economic benefits, both at individual and collective levels.
mr president, anyone who has ever lived or worked in a different country or even in a town or city distant from home will have experienced some of the difficulties that may be encountered in moving from one environment to another.
on 28 november 2003 the presidency, on behalf of the european union, issued a statement on the current situation in zimbabwe, expressing its continued concern regarding the climate of tension in zimbabwe and calling on its government to respect the internationally-guaranteed rights of all zimbabwean people.
before that, we had voted on amendments to a report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
having talked to british and european professional organisations, i therefore raised this in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which asked me to produce an opinion.
it takes account of the characteristic features of copyright, notably its territorial nature, and the new environment for management of rights, such as the emergence of digital rights management.
mr rapkay also mentioned the need for the strict monitoring of state aid, but also pointed out that state aid should not act against the need for sustainable development.
again i agree and, in particular, i would like to point out that some specific guidelines and frameworks in the area of state aid are almost explicitly aimed at sustainable development, for example those aimed at supporting renewable energies, employment creation and research and development.
however important the economic aspects of public procurement may be, they should not be our exclusive focus – other major policies in the social and environmental fields also need to be considered.
in this context i would like to compliment the conciliation committee – and mrs cederschiöld – for their excellent work in reaching a well-balanced compromise which fully consolidates and safeguards the advances made by the current jurisprudence as regards the possibilities of using environmental and social award criteria.
these two directives change all that: social and environmental criteria have now been introduced.
in its ruling of 4 december 2003, the court confirmed and repeated its finding in the famous helsinki bus case, namely that a requirement, according to which the energy to be supplied must be produced from renewable sources, is, per se, admissible.
we have to recognise that high environmental standards must be paid for, but high environmental standards will also give us benefits.
we will also, in the longer term, create a cleaner and greener environment for ourselves and for our children.
mr president, i was asked earlier on today by one of my colleagues for a rebuttal of the allegations of fraud in the european union, and so i started off with a great surge of energy, mentioning that 80% of the eu’s budget is spent within the member states, and most fraud occurs within the structural funds and agriculture.
but, to inject a note of optimism, just as i said in the debate in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, one has only to look at the jackets and suits we are all wearing and ask where they were made.
i would say two extremes, where the first is not to have the possibility of using the option of an exception to the maximum working time, that is to say to go for a total abolition of the 'opting out', and the second is the generalization of the 'opting out', the generalization of this exception which will, in essence, leave to employers and workers the possibility of deciding on working time and the whole working environment.
in our last joint assembly we worked on the epa trade negotiations, human rights, governance, the european development fund and environmental concerns.
as i said, we place great emphasis on the need to attract investment and to create a favourable environment.
evidence from post-independent developing countries in the past 50 years shows that state-owned enterprises have, in the majority of cases, failed to efficiently and cost-effectively provide water, waste management, municipal services, road transport, aviation services, mining, reforestation and energy supplies, thereby making them a considerable burden on the state budget, hindering economic growth and impoverishing the poorest.
the private sector alone can generate sustainable employment and is the driving force of every modern economy.
public utilities in developing countries should be privatised through open international procedures that are transparent, quick and not onerous, and able to meet sustainable development and public interest criteria.
this has the potential to accelerate trends towards the industrialisation of poultry operations in the affected countries and therefore could have some negative social and environmental consequences.
i am pleased to be here to discuss the commission’s proposal for a regulation to establish a european centre for disease prevention and control, submitted to the council and the european parliament in august 2003. allow me first to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr bowis, and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their hard work and support on this important and urgent proposal.
global warming threatens even britain with diseases such as malaria, while diseases such as tb are already returning.
large farms, selling bulk commodities, with pollution risks and herd health problems represent a future that we must work to avoid.
that shows just how important the eu and its enlargement into eastern europe are for all of us concerned about the environment.
we all support sustainable fishing.
in gothenburg, the project was completed with sustainability as a fully qualified element, and this strategy then mobilised energy and enthusiasm; the spring european council was the high point of the examination, the impulse and the decision.
to provide jobs for our citizens; make economic growth socially and environmentally sustainable.
i am talking about consistency because fostering sustainable development is the central objective of our policies in the years ahead.
finally, it is a question of opportunity, because our own experience shows that balanced and sustainable development, particularly in the poorer regions, is in turn a means of further prosperity for the richer regions.
three, as i said, are the big priorities: promoting sustainable development; putting the concept of european citizenship into practice; strengthen the union's role as a global player.
so: sustainable development, european citizenship, the role of the union in the world.
finally, it concerns the development of those services of general interest which are the backbone of our social model, such as health, food security, education, energy and transport.
the commissioners, the commission services and myself have been working with energy and enthusiasm, and i am sure you will see that energy and enthusiasm fully reflected in the outcome of our work.
governments should also ruthlessly tackle waste and fraud, most of which occur at national level, and target spending on our priorities to ensure maximum value for money for taxpayers.
my group believes that the key to better value lies in a modest budget increase, leaving a safe margin for unforeseen expenditure, linked to reform, less waste and more intelligent investment.
this did not happen, so i very much hope that an in-depth analysis of the human rights, environmental and other impacts of this pipeline will form part of the assessment this year.
does the commission share the view that the baku-ceyhan pipeline is a project of great importance both for the future of european energy supplies and for the economic development of turkey and other countries in the region?
the conclusions are based on a controversial risk assessment model that was introduced by the us environmental protection agency.
scottish quality salmon members already undertake measures to ensure the quality of its feed supplies and have in place a testing regime to ensure its standards are met, as well as the rigorous environmental regulation that fish farms adhere to, which has been improving year on year since fish farming began.
the scottish environmental protection agency has a specific remit and responsibility to regulate salmon farming – 63 pieces of legislation, 43 european directives, 3 european regulations, 12 commission decisions – that help reassure consumers that the product they are consuming is of the highest quality.
they are well known for their international campaigns against global pollution and they have recently become influential opponents of the aquaculture industry.
the science magazine article – based on a usd 2.9 million research project carried out by the institute for health and the environment at the state university of new york at albany – has, as previous speakers have said, proved to be deliberately misleading in the advice it provides on salmon consumption.
in their conclusions about limiting salmon consumption, the study's authors appear, as mrs stihler said, to have misapplied an already suspect risk model developed by the us environmental protection agency by failing to include any analysis of the health benefits of eating salmon, despite over 5 000 scientific papers attesting to the necessity of eating oil-rich fish as a regular component of a balanced diet.
eu fish farms undertake rigorous inspection and quality control regimes to ensure that only the highest possible environmental and welfare standards are met and that the public is provided with an entirely safe, non-toxic and reliable product.
salmon farming has often been criticised in the past for its environmental impact, but only recently have potential health impacts been raised.
we should be talking about whether aquaculture itself is providing a viable and environmentally sustainable food for humans, and i would argue that the answer is increasingly looking like 'no'.
also associated with aquaculture is a whole range of other problems, including the spread of disease and parasites to wild fish, the use of fish, fishmeal and fish oil as food with impacts on wild fish stocks, pollution of the sea floor from unconsumed food, the impact on predators when they are killed and the antibiotics used to control the disease.
i look forward to a commission revision of the standards based on genuine safety measures, not on allowances for background environmental levels, because health cannot and should not be compromised.
the european parliament must condemn not only this killing, but also the climate of intimidation and impunity that cambodian authorities allow to persist.
i would like to say that the first concern at the level of the european union with regard to the problem of pensioners is the sustainability of pension systems in the various countries of the union.
in this situation, in addition to analysing debt or deficit or growth, it is considered what is the level of coverage, the level of balance and sustainability in pension systems, and as the honourable member knows, in several countries of the union reforms are being carried out to ensure the sustainability over time of these pension systems, which is the first thing.
more and better employment is the key to sustained growth and prosperity and the only sustainable route to social cohesion.
mr president, the spring summit must be an opportunity to re-evaluate the lisbon agenda with a greater emphasis on the environmental and social aspects of sustainable development.
their focus is on economic reform and flexibility, to the detriment of quality employment, better pay and conditions, greater attention to caring needs, the sustainable use of resources and creating an inclusive society.
these issues have to be given priority at this spring summit if we are to achieve sustainability and quality in europe in the future.
on the issue of pops waste, we have come to a pragmatic realisation of the difficulties of completely abolishing waste containing pops and we think that the appropriate proposal here will meet with the inevitable residual problems that we find with pops being in waste and in other places.
mr president, the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline is being built and funded -including by taxpayers' money – through the world bank, ebrd and european export credits, even though it does not meet international environmental and human rights standards.
this report rightly demands the application of the eu environmental impact assessment directive.
now it appears the coating on pipeline joints is poor and likely to result in major oil leakage and pollution.
the credit should be suspended while an independent enquiry is carried out into the safety of the pipeline for local people and the environment, and also into its financial viability, if at least eur 800 million needs to be spent relaying it.
turkey's guarantees to the btc project regarding opt-outs from new environmental and social laws break its obligations under the eu accession partnership: they would be illegal if turkey were already in the eu.
in relation to the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan pipeline – due to pump a million barrels of oil a day from the caspian to the mediterranean – there are major concerns that the host government agreements do not take into account human rights considerations, and that the environmental and social impacts of the pipeline go against the equitable principles for sound projects.
mr president, you will perhaps be aware of the serious allegation on the front page of today's independent newspaper that the british government tried to muzzle its own top scientific adviser when he warned that global warming was a more serious threat than international terrorism.
this follows from the us administration's failure earlier this year to continue policy drafting on the back of the arctic council's arctic climate impact assessment.
it is a matter of serious concern that this dangerous substance is being fired in considerable quantities into waters which drain tidally into the irish sea, affecting at least two eu member states, in probable violation of the convention on the prevention of marine pollution by the dumping of wastes and other matter, 1972, as extended by recent protocols.
previous speakers have been right about the climate in which this debate has taken place.
we have not really had enough debate in this chamber about the whole issue of our role in better lawmaking or improving and simplifying the regulatory climate, as the commission reminded us.
i know that my colleague, mr medina ortega, is concerned about the way that self- and co-regulation develops, but i would argue that, if we consider that as a genuine alternative at the beginning of the process and see how it is integrated and that safeguards are built in and check it against the alternative of heavyweight and intrusive legislation, this can only be to the benefit of simplifying and improving the regulatory climate.
the us would not waste valuable public resources detaining those who pose no security risk.
they also provide young people with an environment to learn democratic decision-making, intercultural understanding and self-motivated learning.
commissioner, do you not see a parallel with that in the arguments from sugar beet growers in europe, not least in the uk, who also call for an orderly market with, as they say, european price levels that would allow both domestic and developing country industries to invest for a sustainable future?
before granting these permits the authorities in the relevant member state must obtain scientific advice that the management of the trophy hunt in the country concerned is based on sound biological data, that harvest levels are sustainable and that illegal activities are under control.
while many people find the concept of hunting trophies distasteful under any circumstances, the commission considers that a general ban on the import on any cites-listed species would not be in the best interest of species conservation and the sustainable use of resources.
mr president, air pollution continues to be a serious problem in europe.
an oral question tabled for this part-session, which i replied to before the dinner break, illustrates the point by quoting from the world health organization study on the number of cases of premature deaths or serious illness caused by air pollution.
that is why the commission is continuing to pursue a vigorous policy against air pollution.
we have under way a large programme called clean air for europe to prepare for the thematic strategy on air pollution due to be adopted next year.
this programme focuses especially on some of the most widespread problems, such as particulate matter and ground-level ozone.
we are also looking at other types of pollution, which also have important consequences for human health.
but that does not mean that nothing can, or will, be done to reduce the levels of pollution.
these installations are covered by the ippc directive and best available techniques will therefore have to be applied to reduce emissions by 2007. by ensuring adequate monitoring of concentrations near these sources and making results available to the public, this directive will help to ensure that the operators of these installations take the necessary measures to keep emissions as low as possible.
in any case, by ensuring a high level of monitoring in the worst affected areas and setting a target value for polyaromatic hydrocarbons where the sources are more widespread, the directive as proposed will make an important contribution to reducing this type of pollution, raising public awareness and making europe's air safer to breathe.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy informally sought – and this was the first time it was carried out – a cost-benefit analysis.
arriving at a point where cost-benefit analyses are on our agenda is not a sign of obstructionism, it is a sign that parliament is at long last moving from seeing itself as a pressure group for the environment and evolving into a responsible part of the legislative process.
mr president, mr kronberger already knows my opinion on this report as i have expressed it quite strongly in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
he must now face the reality that if he wants to regulate emissions of this kind from the industrial installations we are talking about, setting emission values just does not work.
the nonsense of this proposal is that it assumes the measures used to control gaseous emissions of nickel can be applied to the situation in steel plants where nickel is emitted as a fine dust during the production process.
in reality, the vast amounts of dust in the production area contain only a very small amount of nickel and the emissions from steel plants are relatively small.
he also said that the aims were identical, in that one of the aims was sustainability.
he presumably means economic, environmental and social sustainability, competitiveness and compatibility with the wto, since we must not look at agricultural issues in a vacuum.
that is absolutely clear and as a member of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, it is something i have to emphasise while supporting the overall pse position.
the second amendment, regarding energy policy, has been adequately covered in the compromise language already in the text of my report.
first, it should be recalled that, on the basis of some 100 proposals submitted by the states, the high level group recommended that projects be reviewed which meet the following criteria: they are located in major european traffic centres, they are the subject of firm commitment by the states concerned, with a fixed timetable for implementation, they present advantages in terms of environmental protection, modal balance or territorial cohesion.
(applause)
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
mr miller and colleagues need only look at the report from the commission, look at what has happened to energy costs and to telecommunications costs, to see what can be done.
firstly, the question of whether the internal market strategy takes enough account of social, employment and environmental concerns.
that does not mean that social or environmental aspects are not important.
therefore, the internal market is a good social and environmental policy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0115/2004) by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the state of israel (com (2003) 568 - c5-0478/2003 - 2003/0220 (cns)).
the written declaration (article 120)
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0124/2004) by the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council decision on the interoperable provision of pan-european egovernment services to public authorities, businesses and citizens (idabc) (14816/1/2003 - c5-0017/2004 - 2003/0147 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr read).
– mr president, i am delighted to present this report on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy on idabc.
the commission would also like to thank the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy and the european parliament as a whole for its support and flexibility, which almost ensured a conclusion at first reading.
the commission supports a peaceful and constitutional solution to the crisis and this is necessary in order to be able to hold free and fair elections in the future in a climate which makes them possible.
this initiative is based on the resolutions of the organization of american states and should contribute to a sustainable solution to the crisis.
his appointment is an important milestone in caricom's initiative and should open the way to a constitutional solution to the current difficulties in the country, provided that the necessary measures are taken to break the cycle of violence and establish a climate of security in haiti.
- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene of foodstuffs (10543/2/2002 - c5-0008/2004 - 2000/0178 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin (5420/2003 - c5-0009/2004 - 2000/0179 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-030/01/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council regulation laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin and animal origin products (10543/2/2002 - c5-0008/2004 - c5-0008/2004 - 2000/0178 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr schnellhardt);- second reading (a5-0129/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the common position of the council on the common position of the european parliament and the council with a proposal for a regulation laying down common position of the european parliament and the european parliament and council regulation on the common position of the european parliament and council regulation on the hygiene and public health and consumer policy on the hygiene of the european parliament and public health of the european parliament and the food and public health of the environment (10543/10
mr president, first, we should all congratulate mr schnellhardt on his work on these reports.
nevertheless, i believe that at the last meeting of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, with reasonable compromises on both sides, we arrived at a position where a 12-month study could lead – and i believe will lead – to a proper assessment of how insurance provision is made.
mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs thors, and the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, mrs corbey, for their hard work on this legislative proposal, on which we are close to a first-reading agreement, following a swift and constructive interinstitutional dialogue.
fluorinated gases, as defined in the kyoto protocol, accounted for 65 million tonnes of co2 equivalent, that is, 2% of the total eu greenhouse gas emissions in 1995, but are forecast to increase to 98 million tonnes of co2 equivalent – from 2% to 4% – in 2010 under business as usual.
for example, in the refrigeration and air conditioning sectors there is a strong upward trend in the use of fluorinated gases due to the phase-out of ozone-depleting substances.
this proposed regulation, by introducing cost-effective mitigation measures, could reduce projected emissions by around 23 million tonnes of co2 equivalent by 2010 and obtain even greater reductions later.
as we know, cfcs are much more environmentally damaging than hfcs, being ozone-depleting gases which we have very successfully grappled with under the auspices of the montreal protocol.
hfcs are greenhouse gases like co2 and, as the commissioner said, whatever action we take on control of fluorinated gases, it cannot be at the expense of the action we need to take to control co2.
with regard to vehicle air conditioning – and it is one side-effect of global warming that more people have air conditioning in their cars – the proposal was to replace hfc134a, with a global warming potential of 1300, with the more environmentally benign hfc152a, with a global warming potential of 140. i can see people in the gallery already nodding off, and that is why parliament decided that we should take a bold step to actually phase out the use of hfcs in air conditioning and substitute them with the new developing technology involving co2.
we also need some changes to the first line of annex 2, which i am sure the sessional services will take care of if the compromise amendment goes through, substituting '50' for the global warming potential and putting type-approval in.
this monstrous waste of taxpayers' money is cooled using hfcs!
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
in many respects this directive has two purposes, both to regulate the industrial market and also to protect the environment.
we are trying to protect the environment, to remove from use, gradually and steadily, fluorinated gases, or fgases as they are called.
useful though they have been to replace cfcs, hfcs themselves present problems, particularly with their global warming potential, and we have a responsibility to gradually reduce their use, but in a way that is logical, not too expensive, and where there are proven and viable alternatives.
mr president, this is a good practical proposal from the commission for doing something about global warming and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because, although the total quantity of greenhouse gases being produced from air conditioning and refrigeration equipment is not vast, the amount is growing very substantially year by year – it is expected to increase 15 times between 1995 and 2010. the committee has rejected some of the key proposals from the commission on mobile air conditioning.
most of all, i regret that the socialist group and the european people's party have done this deal on pushing the date for the introduction of vehicles using carbon dioxide back to 2011 from the original proposal of the committee for 2009. that is not ambitious enough, certainly not for a first reading, when we have so many negotiations yet to come.
we did not take action to curb greenhouse gas emissions and global warming as fast as we could, because we all wanted to drive around in cooler cars in the summer.
it could and should have done a lot more to replace enormously powerful greenhouse gases with environmentally less harmful alternatives.
domestic refrigerators using hfcs are left untouched by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy's report, despite eu markets already being dominated by hydrocarbon, greenfreeze technology.
i hope that parliament will vote to support alternative, climate-friendly technologies and take the big opportunity that stands in front of us to do something serious about the environment, rather than letting the single market ride roughshod over these very important concerns.
i welcome this proposed strategy looking at the connection and links between environment and health and i welcome the commission's proposal.
i would like to focus on the issue of indoor pollution and in particular passive smoking – i know mr rod has just touched upon that.
in the usa the environmental protection agency has classified environmental tobacco smoke as a class a carcinogen along with asbestos, arsenic, benzene and radon gas.
to use an english cricketing metaphor, it is important to deal with these kinds of issues in a pragmatic way and to 'take it in singles', to move one step at a time in order to try to ensure that the way in which we deal with the kind of pollution problems that this directive is supposed to deal with actually works.
clearly it is important to make sure that pollution is not generated in the first place.
i am not sure how much that has to do with the apportionment of the way in which liability arises if pollution does occur.
i can envisage circumstances where it is right and just that the government has a role, where pollution has taken place, and where it may not be appropriate to put the blame or impose the responsibility for what occurs on some other party.
lastly, it is important in the context of the politics of this kind of debate not to have a knee-jerk reaction to any particular pollution incident in the recent past.
i want to encourage the commissioner – who, i hope, will leave something in place as part of her legacy as five years as commissioner – to start to encourage member states to exchange practice, firstly, about how they are going to establish their competent authorities or, indeed, how they are going to allocate responsibilities to existing environmental agencies that many of them have already established; and to establish the sort of networks of sharing of best practice that we are seeing in a number of other pan-european regulatory environments, such as energy and communications.
this is a much-needed report and, for obvious reasons, the accidents in romania and spain, but also other incidents that have taken place around the union over time, have demonstrated quite clearly that this kind of material poses a real danger to human health and to the environment if it is mismanaged.
this proposal deals with those environmental industrial problems.
sadly, we in the uk have long been aware of the dangers of mining waste since the terrible disaster of aberfan in 1966 and the terrible deaths that occurred there.
consequently, our national legislation has been particularly strict and strong with regard to mining waste.
there were some, though – particularly the extension of the scope to inert waste – which i felt were misguided.
it will fit neatly alongside the complementary legislation – ippc, seveso, and landfill – and make a positive contribution to the protection of the environment, human health and sustainable development.
i am firmly convinced that with the constitution we are profoundly changing the legal and political environment of the union.
we know of the environmental degradation suffered particularly by powerless indigenous peoples.
mr van den berg also spoke very dramatically about what he described as the silent and hidden ecological war, and another member made a point about gold mining and the degradation it has caused.
i would like to make the point that this is a relatively new area of concern to the council, but the council is ensuring that the european union continues to play a role in global fora as a leading partner in favour of sustainable development.
that is the most important point, and sustainable development is the term that covers all of these issues ranging from the impact on, for example, indigenous peoples to the impact of environmental degradation and it also includes the disappearance of the yields of this development through corruption.
at the meeting of 2 march, the council reiterated that the implementation of the commitments to the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development must continue to have the highest priority and to be integrated into all relevant internal and external policies of the european union.
he was explaining to the committee on fisheries that global warming, which has caused a rise in the temperature of the north sea by a significant amount over the last 20 years, has driven the plankton on which the cod feed northwards.
this is particularly evident in the changing political climate in turkey.
but changes in the legal and regulatory environment are not enough.
- second report (a5-0224/2004) by mr wuermeling, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the harmonisation of the laws and regulations of the member states relating to consumer credit (com (2002) 443 - c5-0191/2004 - 2002/0222 (cod)) and report (a5-0188/2004) by mr ghilardotti, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection laws (the regulation on consumer protection cooperation) (com (2003) 443 - c5-0335/2003 - 2003/0162 (cod))
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
i would like to say, on behalf of the committee on the environment, that we very much support what the rapporteur has said on unfair commercial practices, that is, that the principle of the vulnerable consumer must be accepted and recognised, that we must take into account disparities between national protection rules, that we must insist on a double legal basis and that the principle of optimum harmonisation should hold good for all three directives.
mr president, i am very happy to have the opportunity to discuss this proposal with you and i would like to thank the rapporteurs – mrs redondo jiménez in the committee on agriculture and rural development and mr sturdy in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy – for the time and effort they have put into forging agreements on the text.
i said that we are resubmitting some: we are not resubmitting all the amendments that failed in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, because it was rather pointless.
in order for competition to flourish and for benefits to flow from it in terms of better service to consumers, greater efficiency as regards both energy and market forces, enhanced security of supply, greater flexibility and increased innovation, there must be a clear regulatory framework.
as a former mining engineer, energy policy has been one of my prime interests, so i am happy to be making my swan-song on an energy subject.
i hope that parliament will strongly support this proposal because it will play an important role in the completion of the internal energy market.
i can hardly think of legislation more likely to cause concern to some manufacturers than that which indicates in such detail how they will make their products and what minimum standards of energy they must achieve, with lots of detailed specifications still to come, appliance-by-appliance, determined by the comitology procedure and very much out of the public gaze.
i believe that the potential benefits of energy-saving, of making more efficient products and of reducing carbon dioxide emissions speak for themselves.
in selling it to citizens and consumers alike, there is a simple message: by cutting energy use we can help them save money and we can all contribute to do our bit to save the planet.
the reality is that all the large manufacturers are using every trick in the book to prevent consumers getting a fair deal, at the same time undermining the need to improve energy efficiency, which is a crucial element in protecting the environment.
this is a waste of resources and a waste of energy.
if we can build into the new eco-design legislation a requirement that cartridges must be refillable and recyclable, it will be a major step forward in both protecting the rights of the consumer and benefiting the environment.
it is absolutely essential to ensure the workability of the emissions trading system when it starts in january 2005. i want to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done.
he has secured an agreement with the council which is a practical compromise and which will reap considerable environmental rewards whilst providing for industry a great deal more certainty than the original proposal.
as regards 'sinks' i feel we have the best possible deal: a prohibition on companies using credits from land-use projects and carbon forest sinks until at least 2008. we will find this is a very difficult thing to calculate and we need time to look at it more closely.
our message to eu governments is clear: real, environmental improvement through emissions reductions must be brought about by long-term, sustainable effort at home and not by cheap, ill-advised and potentially detrimental projects in the poorer countries.
some members may vote against it when the time comes, but they will probably come from amongst those who tend to put the interests of industry before those of the environment.
i am glad that the eu is still trying to lead the world on the whole issue of climate change.
in particular, i congratulate the commission on the way it addresses the problem of waste.
some countries like belgium have successfully removed batteries from the waste stream.
as with most waste issues in my country, the united kingdom's record is pathetic.
secondly, in the united kingdom we have had a number of studies on pollution looking at landfill and incineration.
although we have cadmium in the environment, the source of cadmium from batteries is not significant.
batteries which are sold now will not come into the waste stream for more than 16 years.
i have been lobbied by the british local government association, which wants me to support proposals for much higher targets – this from an association representing local authorities that currently only collect 12% of household waste.
i should like to inform you that the commission has today launched a consultation with the social partners on how the european works council, which was set up by a community directive some 10 years ago, can respond more effectively to the challenges of a changing economic and social environment.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
it is very difficult to explain to these journalists – for example the reporter from rutland radio who will reach the humble punter in oakham – why between 5% and 8% of the commission's budget goes missing through fraud, mismanagement and waste each year.
as you have said, commissioner, so many subjects form part of this agenda: the environment, foreign policy, industrial and social policy and, as we have seen, pnr data as well.
if the commission and the leaders of all the political groups in this parliament had put half as much energy into solving the systemic problems shown up by the eurostat case as they have in trying to block this motion from having an airing on the floor of the house, then all these problems could have been solved years ago.
the european commission has confirmed the community's medium-term economic policy strategy as set out in the broad economic policy guidelines for the period 2003-05. the strategy has three main pillars: macroeconomic policies geared to growth and stability, economic reforms to increase growth potential and policies to enhance sustainability.
we know that mr solbes mira has resigned from the commission but not over this issue, so there is still a complete failure on the part of the european commission to take responsibility for this waste of taxpayers' money.
i hope that before our vote on the motion of censure in may the commission will accept its responsibility and do something serious to take responsibility for eurostat and to clean up the eu and stop the unacceptable waste and abuse of taxpayers' money.
i believe this is an unacceptable waste of taxpayers' money.
how am i supposed to justify to my constituents in leicestershire or northamptonshire the fact that the admitted level of waste and fraud in the eu institutions at eur 5 billion is as much as the uk's annual net budget contribution.
- together with my british conservative colleagues, i have actively investigated and raised issues of fraud, waste and mismanagement in the eu institutions, and we have played a major role in highlighting these issues to the general public.
we must find the legal basis, the means by which we control the funds, and deal with a whole array of different things to enable us to create a stable, prosperous and secure environment for citizens of the european union to live in.
it was then a country with huge energy shortages, tremendous dislocation, soviet troops still on its soil and tremendous insecurity.
we see the health threats from that region; we see the drug threats and the environmental threats.
i hope the next president will make tackling fraud, waste and maladministration a priority of his term of office.
lastly, conscious that we next have on the agenda a commission statement on recent environmental disasters in southern europe, i want to insist on the likely connection between this terrible season for caribbean hurricanes, typhoons in the south china sea and indeed the wettest summer in britain for 40 years, and the effects of climate change and global warming.
we in the west must curb our profligate use of energy because it is the poor in the south and east and even hard-pressed european farmers who suffer if we do not.
mr president, i wish to flag up a serious threat to civil liberties, the environment and animal welfare in the united kingdom.
the foundation of the european economy will continue to be laid on a sound macroeconomic policy geared to stability and based on sustainable public finances, especially in view of our demographic prospects.
the basic factors will be an integrated strategy to improve competitiveness and structural reforms, to promote the knowledge-based economy and to ensure that the economic, labour, social, environmental and structural policies of the european union and the member states of the union work effectively and coherently while maintaining the competitiveness of our economy.
the commission also stressed the need to give strong support to initiatives aimed at sustainable development and to improve the coherence between industrial policy and other community policies.
the latter represents a decisive step towards the creation of a fully integrated european global rail market by 2010, which is key to the competitiveness and sustainability of our transport system, and all this through the gradual opening of the rail passenger market.
firstly, the future financial perspective, the objectives of which correspond largely to the priorities proposed for 2005. the commission is aware of the importance of doing what is necessary to get everything ready by 1 january 2007 and that is why the present commission has already put forward proposals this year, especially in february and july, and plans to present a new package of measures to be adopted on 29 september in the areas of jha, relex and the environment which are still pending.
in 2004, the commission services gradually extended the use of impact assessments with the aim of making them a common practice in 2005, applied to the main documents - policy definitions, legislative documents - as well as to all proposals with a significant economic, social or environmental impact, points included in the commission's work programme and legislative programme and of great importance to this parliament.
i believe that there must be a balance between competitiveness, social europe and the environment, but we must remember that if we do not have competitiveness, if we do not generate wealth in a globalised world, we will hardly be able to respond to a social europe or to environmental concerns.
and i want to make an appeal on the kyoto protocol and the emissions trading directive.
i support reducing greenhouse gases.
in that sense, energy efficiency, support for renewable energy, a real, honest and brave language about nuclear energy.
let me explain: the emissions trading system can be a good system if it is framed in a global agreement where that emissions trading is going to produce some real effects.
if this system is to be put in a situation where only the european union assumes these responsibilities, where there is no ratification of kyoto by russia or the united states - the only two countries that could provide the critical mass to allow it to enter into force - we may find ourselves losing our steel, cement, tile, ceramic or other energy-consuming industries, which would not mean that it would stop polluting, because it would be polluting in third countries with much less demanding conditions.
steel, cement or ceramics would still be produced and we would have to import them into europe, adding the cost and emissions of the associated transportation and, theoretically, we would be meeting that emission reduction.
is that reduction in emissions a reality on the global global balance sheet?
this is something to be taken into account because we are putting parts of our industry at risk without, in the end, having any real consequences, in essence, reducing emissions worldwide.
that cannot be done unless we have the courage to face the problems of nuclear energy, to face them, and transparency and information to the citizens and hence the commission's proposals.
and to know that europe will have to increase its nuclear power and capacity and that there can be no easy talk about this if we want to maintain growth and a level of competitiveness and, in addition, fight against climate change.
we'll reduce, by doing all these efforts that i was talking about, by 400 million tons a year of co2 emissions, more or less.
china alone is going to increase its emissions by 4 billion tons of co2 every year for the next 15 years.
as regards security, mr itälä has spoken of security, the environment, competitiveness, the stability pact; i fully agree with what he has said, as i did with all that mrs thyssen has said before on the problems of boosting competition and cohesion; i think the kok report is a great basis for working on this, and mrs ludford, who spoke of rhetoric and reality, i want to point out that i cannot agree with her, although sometimes in politics we all know that the realities are not exactly what we say.
as regards the new varieties, all of them will be analysed in their proper terms, with the two essential objectives of ensuring their traceability and verifying their safety from the point of view of health and environmental effects.
over the last five years i have campaigned against this appalling environmental degradation and tried to highlight the human cost to the indigenous black african communities.
(applause from the left)
mr president, as this will probably be the last time that i will speak in a debate on the environment to which mrs wallström will respond, i should like to thank her for her commitment and efforts over the past five years.
faced with the enormity of problems concerning the environment, she once said that we cannot cry about everything all the time.
british conservatives recognise that climate change is one of the greatest challenges to be faced by our generation and those that will follow us.
whilst we cannot predict with certainty the extent to which temperatures will rise, we can be certain that the risk of abrupt climate change exists.
if we are serious about tackling man-made climate change then we must be serious about reducing global aviation emissions, which are expected to double by 2020. that is why we support action to include aviation in a global emissions trading scheme.
we have severe reservations as to the effectiveness of fuel and emissions taxes.
it is unlikely that the proceeds of such taxes would be used to mitigate the effect of the emissions, leaving such schemes as nothing more than revenue-raising exercises.
it says that the political situation in the maldives has remained remarkably stable over the past two decades, providing a conducive environment for development.
(applause)
mr president, the uk environment agency has revealed that in five months of this year 12 million cubic metres of raw sewage were discharged into the river thames flowing through london.
this situation can only worsen with an increase in the violent storms caused by global warming.
this situation is bad for the environment, prejudicial to human health and damaging to the image of the thames.
i would ask colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to pursue this breach of eu law by the british government and request that the commission investigate it.
like the honourable members, the council welcomes the commission communication on developing countries, international trade and sustainable development, the role of the community's generalised system of preferences for the period 2006-2015, and in particular the general objective set out therein.
the council supported the commission's efforts to simplify the cap overall with the overall aim of helping developing countries to reduce poverty and promote sustainable development.
this is particularly true of the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development, of which the fight against drugs is an integral part.
through the substantial preferences of the sap+, developing countries are encouraged to comply with conventions in the fields of human rights, labour rights, the environment and good governance, of which the fight against drugs is an important part.
on the other hand, the current incentive schemes, and particularly everything that revolves around the application of the social and environmental clauses, have not been very successful, since only two beneficiary countries, sri lanka and moldova, which are not exactly elephants in world trade, benefit from the social clause.
the five windows are: the basic regime, the social clause regime, the environmental clause regime, the drug regime and the "everything but arms" regime, which is the one in force for the least developed countries.
on the one hand, we would maintain a basic diet; on the other hand, we would have the 'everything but arms' regime for the least developed countries, and we would have an intermediate regime called gsp plus, which would be a scheme to encourage sustainable development in all its dimensions: social dimension, environmental dimension, good governance dimension, including the fight against drugs.
sporting excellence can only flourish in an environment of fitness, skill, training and fair competition.
in addition, it is very important that we maintain within the system the special incentive arrangements for the protection of labour rights – which are hardly used at the moment – and the special rights for the environment – which are also under–used.
the revitalisation of the lisbon strategy and the new impetus for structural reforms, in line with the objectives and guidelines agreed in march 2000, are essential if we are to achieve stable and sustained growth in a european union which must not only grow but also grow in conditions of stability, promoting social cohesion and the sustainability of our growth and our growth model.
i ask the house to support the amendment on orphan drugs that mrs haug has tabled on behalf of the environment committee, and to look very carefully at funding for the future in that area.
the goal is delivering sustainable prosperity and a better quality of life for europe's citizens in a way that reflects the innate potential and unique dynamic of european life, not crossing some notional finish line ahead of china or the united states.
some people are trying to recast lisbon to place more emphasis on the social and environmental goals at the expense of the hard economic decisions that are required.
mr president, as chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, i should like it confirmed – for the record – that all the letters of assessment on the commissioners–designate have been forwarded to mr barroso, president–designate of the commission.
mr president, i am delighted we are having this debate, as it is a crucial environmental issue, which is already of great concern to many people.
it cannot be morally sustainable to open negotiations with turkey and with western balkan countries and deny such a right to ukraine.
i heard one of george bush's climate change advisers telling us, firstly, that climate change was a myth; secondly, that european scientists were all funded by national governments, that none could be trusted and only american scientists were independent; and, thirdly, that commissioner wallström had admitted that the whole climate change agenda was designed to ensure that european industry was able to catch up and additional burdens were imposed on american industry in order to allow this level playing field to be established.
in yesterday's financial times i saw that one of mr putin's advisers, whom we have heard from before, is still telling us that it is all a myth and global warming will be a good thing!
we have to ensure not only that we implement kyoto – which, as we know, will do nothing to combat climate change but will simply slow down the process – but also that we involve developing nations, raise the targets and find ways of changing public policy in ways that are politically acceptable and involve the united states.
on behalf of the group.– mr president, i should like to add my thanks to commissioner wallström for all her work as environment commissioner.
this is a very important subject, which makes a real difference to our environment.
the greens strongly support re-use as an important way to reduce the environmental impact of packaging, but we share the reservations expressed by others about trying to tackle that in this directive by amending a recital.
- (the speaker spoke in irish) ...the revised packaging and packaging waste directive marks another important step towards strategies and policies that focus on waste minimisation, recovery, reuse and recycling.
in both the north and south of ireland, similar directives are having a positive impact and changing both government practice and public mindsets with respect to domestic and commercial waste management.
at local government level in ireland we have directives which show that recycling brings with it the notion of local authorities, from belfast to dublin, actively pursuing new forms of waste management, while at the same time government departments have been moved to concentrate their efforts as a result of these directives.
i therefore support mrs corbey and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety with respect to the amendments on this point.
(the speaker spoke in irish)
mr president, in noting the delay in the implementation of the packaging waste directive that the accession states are to be allowed, i wish to say that, from our experience in northern ireland, they are fortunate to escape its requirements for several years.
he is then liable to what amounts to a waste tax for merely handling the goods and, in addition, has to waste time and effort on trying to assess the weight of the packaging.
it is very nice to see her here for what must be one of her last debates as environment commissioner.
all too often in this house the lisbon agenda is limited to the issue of competitiveness, and we omit all the other facets concerning more and better quality jobs, social cohesion and sustainable development, which went on to be developed more fully at gothenburg.
we have totally forgotten the cardiff process on integration of the environment into all the processes and policies of the european union.
we have put such emphasis on the lisbon strategy and, like mrs lambert, i welcome the council's recognition that there has to be a real balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions.
i wish to thank you in particular, mr president-in-office, for the lead your government has given on the whole question of tackling the regulatory burden and improving the climate for business in europe.
i was delighted to see in the presidency conclusions the substantial commitment that you, together with other governments – i know the british government is associated with this – have made to improving the business climate.
report (a6-0007/2004) by joseph daul, on behalf of the committee on agriculture, on the proposal for a council directive amending directives 66/401/eec, 66/402/eec, 2002/54/ec and 2002/57/ec as regards examinations carried out under official supervision and equivalence of seed produced in third countries(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0017/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0016/2004) by jean-paul gauzès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the principality of liechtenstein providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec of 3 june 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0019/2004) by martine roure, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the commission proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/463/ec adopting an action programme for administrative cooperation in the fields of external borders, visas, asylum and immigration (argo programme)(parliament adopted the text) report (a6-0027/2004) by dorette corbey, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0031/2004) by anders samuelsen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 2667/2000 on the european agency for reconstruction(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0032/2004) by mechtild rothe, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument of financial support for encouraging the economic development of the turkish cypriot community(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) report (a6-0022/2004) by raül romeva i rueda, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the council's fifth annual report according to operative provision 8 of the european union code of conduct on arms exports(parliament adopted the resolution) motion for a resolution (b6-0162/2004) tabled by the committee on foreign affairs on the european union military operation 'althea' in bosnia and herzegovina(parliament adopted the resolution) motion for a resolution (b6-0129/2004) tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the eu strategy for the buenos aires conference on climate change (cop-10)(parliament adopted the resolution) joint motion for a resolution tabled by the following members: miguel angel martínez martínez, on behalf of the pse group, daniel marc cohn-bendit and others on behalf of the verts/ale group, francis wurtz and others on behalf of the gue/ngl group, seeking to replace motions for resolutions b6-0155 and 0163/2004 with a new text.
the european parliament must send a clear message to china that this policy is unacceptable and it must do all it can to ensure the protection of human rights and the cultural, political, environmental and religious identity of the tibetan people.
the bodies of these thousands of brave men are being reburied underneath household and building waste.
now we have a parliament, a government and a civil service with near total power over health, education, justice, home affairs, the environment and many other areas.
europe and america diverge on a clutch of important questions: trade; science; fundamental rights; climate change; monetary policy; competition policy; foreign, security and defence policy and the constitution.
the objectives on the environment and social policy are, in many cases, not being delivered and yet we have the costs and inconsistencies that go with them.
it should also be kept in mind that the greatest threat to living resources in the baltic sea comes from land and not from the sea, and the best way to limit the pollution of the sea is to integrate environmental protection requirements into the fisheries policy.
they have not had their accounts signed off for the last ten years and they want more money to waste, to neglect, to give in fraud and corruption.
since the question of charges for issuing greenhouse gas emission permits is not within the commission's competence, the commission has no overview of how much each member state currently charges for issuing greenhouse gas emission permits under the emissions trading directive.
the review of the emissions trading directive will start early in 2005. it will be a major stakeholder survey and will cover a broad range of issues, including the effect of the scheme on the extra-community competitiveness of european companies.
we agree that we do not view the outsourcing of internal eu responsibilities to camps in countries such as libya as offering any sustainable solution, or even a short-term solution, to those seeking asylum.
a lot of research suggests that children and the unborn have in some way been affected by either pesticides or chemicals in our environment.
these tests showed that the highest level of chemicals was found not in the grandmother – who had lived through the highest levels of pollution in our streets in the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s – but in the granddaughter who was 15 years old.
i also have concerns that a country with such a massive number of people living in poverty will not be able to reach the levels acquired in the acquis communautaire, and i fear that the emphasis has been on the market access to turkey rather than the need for turkey to conform to the social and environmental standards in the eu.
an equal emphasis must be placed on social and environmental considerations.
bulgaria is now a fully functioning market economy and has been recognised as such since 2002. macroeconomic stability has been maintained, including adequate price stability and sustainable public finances and external accounts.
as with that report, it is essential to appreciate just how important deep-water coral reefs are for the marine ecosystem.
in the report on asylum and sustainable solutions that parliament adopted yesterday, one of the things we agreed was that the european union's common foreign policy and common security policy needed to focus on conflict resolution and prevention, paying special attention to long-term conflict situations.
we need to ask why the site has not been cleaned of toxic waste and continues to pollute the water the surrounding communities rely on.
we must also attempt to see each angle of an issue such as the bhopal disaster, and we should acknowledge the work that has already been done by the indian government and the madhya pradesh government with regard to medical care, economic and social assistance, environmental clean-up, and finally financial compensation.
we should continue to be constructive and offer the humanitarian, ecological and medical expertise we have to the government of madhya pradesh.
the pollution in the water supply in nearby slums is also 500 times above the maximum recommended who levels.
mr president, if you go to bhopal today – not 20 years ago, but today – you will see thousands of tonnes of toxic waste in piles, pools of mercury, skips of poisoned waste and bags of chemicals lying in the open air, seeping, whenever the rains come, into the puddles, streams and groundwater; and you will see people suffering because they drink that water.
but today we seek justice for those people and renovation of the environment in that part of the world and the health of its people.