the proposal to strengthen the criminal framework for the suppression of pollution from ships is not going to reduce maritime crime, since everything will be subject to safeguarding and increasing the profits of ship owners, of big capital in general, which controls the sources of energy and the means of transport and production.
mr president, the kke rejects all three motions for a regulation ... (the speaker is interrupted by the president)
mr president, it is truly astonishing to see once again that the bulk of the problem of marine pollution does not come from shipwrecks themselves but from illegal dumping of ships, whether it be oil or waste in general, and that this problem has not been dealt with as it should be.
the commission has already adopted a directive on this subject, namely directive 2059 on ship-generated waste reception facilities, but it has not been fully implemented by the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
so here we are taking a positive step, and what i regret to point out is that the council, while it had asked the european commission to bring in this regulation on penalties in cases of illegal dumping of waste from ships, now does not seem to be willing to move quickly, does not seem to be willing to accept the proposals of the commission and parliament and seems to be delaying the whole process.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of nuclear safety, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the disposal of radioactive waste.
in fact, apart from a few general points of view which apply to all types of waste, the proposal for a directive makes no substantial reference to the special and sensitive nature of radioactive waste in terms of public health.
the report by the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy makes an effort to support the flawed text of the directive with comments which are either neutral or downright negative.
the report accepts, for example, the transfer of spent nuclear waste to third countries, which we are absolutely opposed to.
the proposal for a directive and the report by the committee on industry confirm once again our assessment that there is a huge gap between the seriousness and depth of the environmental problems created by the uncontrolled activities of big business and the measures to solve them.
this is our political objective for 2004. so you will tell me, in view of what i said in the introduction to the debate on the state of the art in geneva, that such an objective requires energy and acceleration, without a doubt.
however, when one looks at the environmental constraints, such as access to water, africa is not so big.
the pressure on forests is one such systemic, ongoing and dramatic pressure which presents perhaps the greatest obstacle to establishing a sustainable alternative because the issue has to do with poverty and with real problems.
these exports are now up and running again and we have recreated thousands of jobs on a sustainable basis.
at the same time, many people depend for their survival on being able to hunt and eat bushmeat in their normal, traditional environment.
we are committed to working together with the member states to find a sustainable solution.
only if their rights are respected will people of different origins and cultures feel part of the community in which they live and work legally, with rights and obligations in their daily lives, work, education, language learning, housing, health services, social services, cultural environment and political activity.
the implementation of these infrastructures depends on the liberalisation of energy and telecommunications markets for easy and cheap access to them and on the transeuropean networks programme to increase market capacity.
i would remind you that guideline 2 makes very specific reference to entrepreneurship, to the relationship between job creation and entrepreneurship, and calls on member states to encourage innovation in entrepreneurship, investment capacity and a business-friendly environment for all businesses.
as you, mr president, have been personally involved in the conciliation process, i think you understand better than anyone else that this is a very important step in reducing delays and that we are therefore strengthening air transport, protecting the environment better and supporting european tourism more effectively.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0003/2004) by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament and the council on the progress report on the galileo programme (com (2002) 518 - 2003/2041 (ini)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0038/2004) by mr bowis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european centre for disease prevention and control (com (2003) 441 - c5-0400/2003 - 2003/0174 (cod)).
the spread of epidemics is facilitated by population movements, environmental and social changes, globalisation, wars.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the field of the environment, and it is in this context that the commission is proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment.
but sustainable development in the member states must be supported and the role of the european union as a global partner must be strengthened.
- mr president, mr alavanos is asking me an important question on a subject which has always interested me, since, as he knows, i was minister for the environment in my own country and, as you will see in the future cohesion policy which we will be presenting next week, i am very attentive to questions concerning the environment.
the information i have indicates that 233 waste water treatment plants have now been completed in greece.
however, the provision we are discussing today, article 10 of the council directive of 21 may 1991 on the treatment of urban waste water, provides that member states must ensure that, i quote, 'treatment plants are operated and maintained in such a way as to have a sufficient yield in all the normal climatic conditions of the place where they are located'.
article 15 (4) of the directive authorises the commission to request information on the operation of all waste water treatment plants whose construction has been financed by the structural funds.
for example, as regards engineers, apart from the issue of unequal treatment at the expense of qualified engineers who have completed a five-year course at a higher education institution, which is equivalent to graduates with a three-year course, the deterioration of the profession resulting from the directive gives rise to serious public interest issues and pressing social and grassroots demands in sensitive sectors such as earthquake protection, construction and the improvement of the natural and man-made environment.
however, the commission has proposed to extend its functions in three very specific and topical areas: the fight against pollution caused by ships, the training of crews and marine protection.
i would point out that the recent maritime disasters have made it clear that new measures are needed at european level, not only in the prevention of pollution but also in the provision and management of resources to combat pollution when it occurs.
the agency's action in the field of pollution control will complement the provisions in force in the member states and add value to the actions already undertaken at community level in the field of civil protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i think the amendments are constructive and i think that this will enable us to reach an agreement with parliament quickly and thus give the agency these new powers, especially the management of the means of combating marine pollution.
this, together with the modification of the allocation of funds in the budget for the current year and the next, will enable us to have, at european level, ships to combat marine pollution on the high seas, to deal with what we regrettably cannot avoid, namely the possibility of new disasters like the ones we have had, since there is no zero risk.
mr president, the european commission has proposed to extend the agency's remit to support the existing community framework and mechanism in the areas of accidental or deliberate marine pollution and civil protection.
in the absence of community rules on compensation for oil pollution damage, the council's decision to accede to the protocol must be regarded by all of us as a very positive step.
with such attitudes, as you can see, who will turn qualified young people to maritime professions, who will ultimately protect the lives of seafarers and the marine environment tomorrow?
it is inconceivable that the entire crew should be detained because of the ecological disaster caused by the ship's mooring at the entrance to karachi harbour and that the ship's cook should be held responsible.
in the context of the new challenges created by technological development and economic globalisation, we therefore need to renew and intensify action on women's rights, with a view to democratic and participatory global governance that ensures a fair distribution of the planet's resources, gender equality and sustainable development for all.
in any case, and here i fully agree with mr medina, improving the regulatory environment means limiting the role of the bureaucracy, for which the commission is responsible.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new forms of production, which are not only harmful to the environment but also to the environment.
we must support this effort, we must support environmental issues, we must support the strengthening of transeuropean networks in the field of energy and in the field of transport, so that these countries can be more fully integrated into european structures.
the report also shows that the whole process of accession has accelerated the progress of these countries by reforming their economic, administrative and political environment, and this is a great benefit for their peoples.
there are projects which are not combined with productive activities, projects which are harmful to the environment and projects which contribute little or nothing to the local community.
this may be an irregularity of a financial nature, but it may also be, for example, that an environmental regulation has been violated.
- the next item is the report (a5-0133/2004) by mr keppelhoff, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on feed hygiene requirements.
- the next item is the report (a5-0147/2004) by mr thors, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on materials and articles intended to come into contact with foodstuffs.
first of all, i would like to thank parliament for its response to the commission's communication on a european strategy for the environment and health.
environment and health are issues that concern us all.
according to the latest eurobarometer surveys, 89% of europeans are concerned about the impact of the environment on their health.
nearly 10 percent report having a close relative or family member who suffers from an environmental illness.
our knowledge of what in the environment actually causes certain health effects is still quite limited.
how much the environment contributes to the diseases we do not know with absolute certainty today.
the idea is to bring together environment, health and research to better understand and thereby tackle more effectively the complex relationship between environment and health.
we are currently working on an action plan for the period 2004 to 2010. we will present it at the meeting of environment and health ministers in budapest in june 2004, which is a pan-european meeting.
our knowledge of the role of the environment in various health problems will not be complete immediately.
it is clear that children are a priority target group and are also the most exposed to environmental risks, so we have put them at the centre of our strategy.
based on these diseases and substances, we want to build a programme that can provide us with the necessary information on how the environment affects our health.
we hope that we can then extend it to other environmental threats and linked diseases.
i would like to emphasize that from the very beginning of the work on this environmental and health strategy we have cooperated with and sought the views of the world health organization.
mr president, the link between the environment and health was a request from parliament, based in particular on the requirements of the treaties, articles 152 and 174. i would remind you that in 1996 the formulation of the protection of public health as a separate theme in the then-forming fifth environment and sustainable development programme was my proposal which was accepted by all the institutions.
for the first time, the european union was attempting to collect and disseminate information and knowledge on the effects of the state of the environment on human health.
today, the sixth environment programme includes this specific theme, namely environment - health - quality of life, while the first community action programme in the field of public health, which we adopted in 2002 and for which i had the honour of being rapporteur, contains the promotion of the recording, analysis and evaluation of the determinants of health linked to the environment.
this knowledge will obviously lead to the adoption and promotion of appropriate strategies and measures to protect human health from the adverse effects of a degraded and dangerous environment.
it should be noted, however, that the union has been reluctant to take environmental health into account up to now, and therefore the present proposal for a strategy on environment and health can only be welcomed as a positive step reflecting the european union's willingness to take action in this area, because the environmental risks to health are now high and require a modern and integrated approach.
emphasis should be placed on reducing environmental risks that affect human health or cause disease, and this at great economic and social cost.
the action programme proposes measures to improve air quality in the living and working environment, studies to address the most serious emissions and exposure, special attention to populations living near sources of pollution and a reinforced preventive policy focused on intensifying environmental monitoring of carcinogens, reproductive and nervous system toxicants.
it also stressed the importance of environmental education in order to take initiatives to raise public awareness of the need for information.
mr president, it is true that the environment, together with nutrition, is a major determinant of health and that the union's strategy in this field must therefore include the continuous collection and systematic monitoring of data linking environmental parameters to various diseases.
only by continuously developing scientific knowledge and research on aspects of certain diseases with environmental parameters will we be able to develop effectively the union's strategy and take action to protect human health.
mr president, commissioner, the commission communication on the european strategy for the environment and health is an ambitious step towards improving the quality of life of european citizens.
there is now clear evidence that 20% of the total number of diseases in industrialized countries are related to environmental factors.
10% of children in western europe have asthma, ten times the rate of children in eastern europe, and this is due to the different environment.
a 10% reduction in ozone is expected to cause 300 000 skin cancers and 4500 cases of melanoma annually worldwide.
the community's action policies to date have concentrated on specific environmental and health-related factors, but the risks from the combination and interaction of the various pollutants in their entirety on the human body have never been assessed.
the scale initiative, with its gradual and cyclical implementation, is based on scientific research to obtain the necessary information, focuses on children as the most vulnerable population group, increases awareness that environmental degradation is harmful to the health of all and in particular of children, uses the legal means provided by the treaty to take relevant action and, finally, provides for continuous and continuous evaluation of the effectiveness of actions.
he knows the problem, and i told him: we need to see so much critical mass in the implementation of reforms by the end of this year that we are able to say that the implementation process is credible and sustainable.
this identity for europe cannot be dissociated from practices that are sensitive to social and environmental issues.
instead of taking real action to reduce the co2 and gas emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect and the climate change that results from it, the eu is making sure that 'flexible' mechanisms are used to not only avoid harm to industry but also to benefit it.
this is despite the fact that the eu will not reach its target of reducing pollution by 8% by 2010. the principle of buying and selling everything has thus created a market for pollution rights!
the directive is now being supplemented by 'joint implementing measures' and 'sustainable development mechanisms'.
the reduction in pollution that is achieved is put on the assets side of the industries and they are given the right to pollute elsewhere (within the eu)!
however, it also contains positive elements such as the emphasis on the need to ensure a higher level of protection of fundamental rights and the acceptance or encouragement of a political climate in which people feel threatened, etc.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
i would also like to say that our report gives particular attention to specific sectoral problems, such as the problems of rural areas, where we have received many proposals from the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment.
it must be our common desire to build not just a europe based on the common market, but a europe which is at the same time more competitive but also more solidary, a europe which will better enable us to achieve the lisbon and gothenburg objectives of sustainable development and a knowledge-based economy.
to find their way, the regions must move away from the traditional path and focus on the growing economic importance of new industries, such as, for example, the ecological and cultural industries, which can offer new jobs but also overcome geographical constraints.
i want to point out that out of the 15 community agencies only three – the environment agency, the medicines agency and the monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia – have european parliament representatives on their management boards.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the cypriot authorities are informed and that security guarantees are strengthened, and this could change the climate and, after two or three months, lead to a positive outcome for which there is great hope.
the positions of my colleagues, both the commissioner and the president of the council, and the bitterness expressed in this chamber about the climate currently prevailing in cyprus, lead me to conclude that, beyond the yes or no which has been discussed here in detail, the proposal by the president of the cypriot parliament, mr dimitris christofias, to postpone the referendums should be discussed in detail, particularly as the postponement should be linked on the one hand to clarifying certain points of the plan which are causing some problems, such as security issues, and i would ask mr patten to bring up the issue of the right of asylum and the right to be heard by the courts and the security report, which we are voting on in the security council, on the other.
i think these two poles would definitely help in a climate inversion.
in addition to the sustainability and functionality of the proposed solution, guarantees of the security and implementation of the agreements are required.
the eu's employment policy aims to replace full-time and fixed-term work with part-time and temporary work, while ignoring basic employment, wage and social security rights under the misleading lisbon headline of 'sustainable development and full employment'.
demographic trends today show that family life is no longer a primary life goal for women, who are more interested in their financial independence and professional development, thus investing more time and energy in education.
but all have launched their solutions within the enabling environment.
mr president, if lisbon has taught us anything, it is that strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy, of business, is not enough to create jobs, social cohesion and protect the environment.
it proposes a series of measures to reduce administrative controls on the market, reduce costs, even hinting at an increase in working hours, but makes no mention of social sustainability.
we therefore want to hear from the dutch presidency specific policies for full employment and sustainable growth: simple things.
together with social cohesion, environmental sustainability and strengthening europe through the creation of working conditions and equal opportunities.
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
we are facing a major ecological disaster and a major failure on the part of the european commission to put into practice what it rightly advocates.
i am asking on behalf of my political group, and as a member of the committee on the environment, that the commission finally apply the 'polluter pays' principle not only to those who owned the ship, but also to those who owned the product, the goods, and to all those involved in this case.
and the main political conclusion, if we are to be honest, is that we must finally stop the rich industrial north from using the poorer countries of the south as a big warehouse and a tank to illegally place toxic waste.
mr president, the sinking of the ulla, a ship carrying toxic waste between spain, algeria and turkey, and the new ecological disaster that has affected the fisheries food chain, confirm what we have been saying for years in the european parliament: that the management of toxic waste and the pollution of the marine environment cannot be dealt with only by criminal law, since everything is still subject to the safeguarding and increasing of the profits of big capital that controls the sources of energy and production and of the shipowners who control the means of transport.
we have always denounced these claims as false, unscientific, suspect, since they try to cover up the uncontrolled transport of toxic and nuclear waste by the large monopoly industrial units by covering up for governments, state authorities and shipping companies while concealing the negative consequences of the old fleet and the inadequate inspections of ships.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
it does not take account of the needs arising from enlargement to ten countries and calls on workers, women, young people, small and medium-sized farmers, professionals and artisans, the lower classes in the less developed regions and in the twenty-five countries to pay the price for creating an attractive business environment for capital.
skilled workers in ports are linked to the unloading of ships, the loading of ships and, by extension, the safety and protection of human life at sea and the protection of the environment.
i would also like to point out, mr president, that the dutch government in question will be making an international climate tour this autumn as part of the european union presidency, in the light of the problems raised by the two members of parliament.
the aim is to mobilize the positive forces around international climate policy and the intended outcome of the tour is that the climate problem is recognized by the visited countries and that there is a willingness to talk about a long-term climate policy.
the increase in cases such as grave robberies and racist graffiti on walls, which we condemn wherever they come from, is being used as a pretext for launching accusations and open threats against serbia-montenegro and creating a climate of acrimony.
in view of the energy stakes in the region, the european union must immediately take concrete initiatives for the peaceful settlement of the conflicts in abkhazia and south ossetia.
today, as i leave this portfolio to which i have devoted a great deal of energy, i thank you for giving me the opportunity to take stock of our common progress and to outline the paths for the future.
it must tackle the factors that contribute to creating an environment favourable to doping: the status and training of sports trainers, the role of the medical community, the pressure for success from sponsors.
i would also mention a very important element for all the action that will follow, namely the meca-medina court's judgment of 30 september, which has the merit of clarifying the place of the fight against doping in the community legal environment and which has come to confirm the commission's position as i have been defending it for five years, which i welcome.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the increase in energy consumption in developing countries, wars and the exacerbations caused by the monopolies themselves, are a pretext for price increases.
the real cause lies in the exploitation of the productive resources for the benefit of the plutocracy and its strengthening in a climate of generalized privatization.
the only answer to precision lies in the struggles of the workers against barbarism for radical changes, for energy and other strategically important sectors to become the people's property and for the modern needs of the workers to be met.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
report (a6-0012/2004) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) report (a6-0011/2004) by mr gargani, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the council directives establishing basic community measures for the control of certain diseases in bivalve molluscs (parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) report (a6-0023/2004) by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the conclusion of protocols to the partnership and cooperation agreements between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the following countries, of the other part1.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's 'sustainable development strategy' (2007-2013) and a communication on the 'sustainable development strategy' (2008-2013).
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment (2008-2013).
we believe that policies aimed at sustainable growth and employment must be strengthened.
the environment is the second priority, and following the accession of bulgaria and romania, interreg is promoting crossborder cooperation between greece and bulgaria on both sides of the border.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in conclusion, i would like to refer to the development policy of india, to which the european union could contribute by giving priority both to the achievement of the overall development objectives of this country and to improvements in governance, environmental well-being, social and economic cohesion, the social security system and the adoption of international labour standards as provided for by the international labour organisation.
mr president, i thank the representative of the dutch presidency for his reply, but i would like to point out that in the western balkans we are witnessing a climate of tension and instability on a daily basis.
in order to ensure the sustainability and irreversibility of the political criteria, the commission recommends a cooperation strategy to strengthen and support the reform process in turkey, in particular with regard to the continued compliance with the copenhagen political criteria.
mr president, one of the important elements of the millennium development goal, which is to establish a global partnership for development, is sustainable debt relief.
the debt problem of developing countries must be tackled in a broad way by means of national and international measures, with a view to making debt sustainable in the long term.
in line with the monterrey consensus, adopted by the heads of state or government of the united nations member states in march 2002, the eu recognises that sustainable debt financing is essential to unlock resources for private and public investment, and that external debt relief can play a crucial role in unlocking resources that can be re-invested in activities that promote sustainable growth and development.
in its conclusions of 14 november 2002, the council confirmed its willingness to, and i quote, 'continue efforts to re-establish debt sustainability in the context of the strengthened hipc initiative, so that developing countries, and in particular the poorest, can continue to pursue growth and development without being hampered by the burden of unsustainable debt'.
the eu considers that both hipc countries and donor and creditor countries are responsible for sustainable debt repayment in the long term.
in this context, the open method of coordination has also been applied to issues such as the adequacy of pensions and the financial sustainability of pension systems.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the criminal bombing of yugoslavia with depleted uranium by the usa, nato and the eu, with the victims of thousands of people, the destruction of monuments and the widespread destruction of the environment, have painful consequences for the peoples of the balkans.
they are limited to renewable energy sources, energy efficiency improvements and energy production from biomass, and do not include other measures such as the use of biofuels as a partial substitute for fossil fuels, the use of more of the thermal energy produced in power plants, the improvement of available techniques to emit less greenhouse gases (ghg) per unit of energy produced, the substantial protection and use of forests as a vehicle for co2 in the atmosphere.
the eu's efforts to be a 'role model' are undermined by commission figures showing the eu-15 falling far short of the target of reducing ghg emissions by 8% by 2010 compared to 1990. we find our categorical and unwavering opposition to the marketing of the a.t.c.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the european union.
and above all, we ask you, mr barroso, in presenting the commission's programming statements to focus on sustainable growth, employment, solidarity and cohesion and to strengthen europe's role as a force for peace and cooperation.
according to the commission, the cost of this sector for europe will reach eur 23 billion by 2013. what does this mean for the global environment?
the peace process in colombia must be a political solution which can only be achieved through negotiations which require: the first is to create a security environment so that all sides can sit down at the negotiating table.
mr president, a few days ago, the president of our party, pasok, mr george papandreou, met in istanbul with patriarch bartholomew and had the opportunity to reaffirm our support for the ecumenical character of the orthodox patriarchate, the great spiritual and cultural work it is doing and the patriarch's international initiatives for dialogue between religions and cultures, as well as for the protection of the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission's programme for the next five years must have as its main objective sustainable growth, full employment and economic and social cohesion.
in order for the new globalised environment to optimise the allocation of resources, stability, predictability and solidarity will need to be reinforced by new strong institutions and management mechanisms.
my proposal concerns the areas of economic and political cooperation of financial markets and international development cooperation on the basis of a model of a new international social and ecological market economy.
finally, as regards landfills, community legislation has been adopted to ensure that landfills are designed and operated in such a way as not to endanger human health or the environment.
this, ladies and gentlemen, is not only a moral choice but also the best basis for a sustainable policy which will ensure our cohesion, inspire the union's respect and confidence in its citizens and, in any case, citizens expect a clear justification for the european council's decisions and a public dialogue, which has unfortunately not yet taken place, on the future of euro-turkish relations, with substance and depth.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the acquis communautaire in the field of the environment, which is intended to provide a framework for the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment.
the first is the area of environmental protection, nuclear safety, nuclear waste management and the quality of river water.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
measures to improve them, as well as to protect the marine environment, represent the bulk of legislation adopted in this area in the five years since the erika disaster.
other measures include those designed to improve the safety of ships other than oil tankers, such as passenger vessels, to ensure a minimum level of seafarers' training and to reduce pollution from ships.
currently under consideration by the council are measures to implement the imo international safety management code within the community, so penalties can be imposed for certain pollution offences and port security enhanced.
finally, looking ahead, a new package of maritime safety measures is expected to be submitted for examination by the council in spring 2005.
mr president, the proposal for a directive on the imposition of sanctions against marine pollution has been left pending during the dutch presidency because some countries, including greece, are opposed to it.
finally, i would like to recall that the pact is a framework for the management of budgetary policies at global level, with a view to ensuring the sustainability of public finances over the longer term.
before i go into detail on this report, i think it is worth recalling the work done under the auspices of this action plan since its adoption in december 1999. the objectives of the civil protection action programme are to help to ensure better protection for people, the environment and property in the event of natural or technological disasters across the community.
floods, heat waves, fires, earthquakes, major pollution incidents with toxic waste or oil spills, such as the one at the prestige, but also serious industrial accidents, even terrorist attacks.
but it is absolutely necessary to finance the increased needs arising from enlargement and to finance the action programme to combat marine pollution which has been adopted in the meantime.
for the reasons i have already explained, and not to be too long in coming because it is already quite late, i ask the european parliament to give its full support to this report, as did the committee on the environment, which adopted my report almost unanimously.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
when funds are not allocated for flood control projects, when seismic standards are not respected, when forests are left to the mercy of arsonists and land-grabbers, when ship owners are left homeless and unpunished after enormous ecological disasters, what protection can we talk about?
mr president, twenty years have passed since the bhopal tragedy in india, with its enormous humanitarian and ecological consequences, and i think it is particularly important that the political groups have taken the initiative in adopting a resolution in the european parliament.
the tragedy of this kind may be experienced again by people in other parts of the world if there is no international mobilization to set up international control mechanisms for the operation of multinational companies, to protect the environment, to protect human rights and workers' rights.
in my view, however, it does not fully reflect the efforts made by the federal and regional authorities in india over the past few years in the areas of medical, economic, social and environmental rehabilitation.
in conclusion, mr president, i believe that the best way to express our sympathy to the victims and their families is for the european commission to take initiatives in cooperation with the world health organization to implement medical and environmental rehabilitation programmes.