we must not just limit ourselves to cooperation relating to the environmental and health effects of cross-border sustainable development, but i can assure you that even in such cases we will be quite decisive.
i also agree with the commission's approach that the revision of the pact should take into account several aspects: the sustainability of public debt, the protracted slow growth, the harmonisation and coordination of economic and fiscal policies.
i want to talk about this from the perspective of energy-poor countries.
as a result, economic growth slows down, the budgetary situation becomes uncertain, and the competitiveness of agriculture deteriorates, because agriculture in energy-poor countries - unfortunately - consumes a lot of energy, putting jobs and social gains at risk.
they need to increase their share of renewable energy to become more independent from the oil market.
a particularly valuable approach is the holistic approach which brings the issue of job creation, the need to increase employment, into close correlation with the evolution of the macroeconomic environment.
i would, however, suggest other means of solving the problem, and i am thinking in particular of creating an economic environment that is conducive to business.
environmental pollution should not be exported.
and to do that, we need complex programs that help those who are out of sight (and those who will no longer be able to enter the labor market) to rehabilitate both human resources and the environment.
but if spending falls below a certain level, it becomes meaningless, because if goals remain dreams, then every euro we spend is a waste of money.
the effective functioning of the community system is a key issue for romania, if we think of environmental protection, competition policy or the areas made sensitive by internal opening - animal health, customs, income taxation.
they did so in the belief that after many lost decades hungarian society could become a part of the common european social model, including strong social policies for everybody, real improvements in environmental matters, free movement of labour and solidarity for common standards among the 25 nations.
is it enough to cover the expenses of the brave environmental initiative natura 2000, designed to save our nature and biodiversity?
if 1.24 per cent of gni is such a low amount to build up a common european social, environmental and cultural model, why are some member states even considering reducing this amount?
the second is environmental protection: the cleanliness of rivers is a cross-border issue.
the commission has also proposed to improve the social integration of the over 2 million roma in romania, where they are severely lagging behind and in a very difficult situation, and to improve the state of environmental protection, since romania's environmental situation is far below that of the other acceding countries and this is not just a matter of adopting legislation but of applying it consistently.
i would like to draw your attention to a very dangerous mining company, rosia montana, which is threatening a real environmental disaster.
as a hungarian representative, i must highlight the series of transitional exemptions requested by romania in the field of environmental protection.
among them are those that directly affect the state of hungary's waters, causing serious unease among our voters, who are now asking the hungarian government to reopen the recently closed environmental chapter.