mr president, i wish to bring the attention of this assembly to recent studies on the effects of climate change in particular, which were published in the scientific journal nature.
they document a massive loss of species, both plant and animal, as a result of climate change.
very often rust-bucket, single-hull, decaying tankers carry enormous quantities of oil which are, in effect, environmental weapons of mass destruction.
much of the pollution that occurs in community waters, as has been said already, is either deliberate or avoidable.
a second key element to ensuring a safer, cleaner maritime environment is the newly established european maritime safety agency.
this agency will have to play a major role in anti-pollution and ship security measures.
criminal sanctions should be used against those responsible for the environmental pollution caused by deliberate dumping and by maritime disasters.
it could also play a number of additional roles in eu waters, such as providing an adequate emergency response mechanism should an environmental disaster, such as the prestige, occur again.
the current draft will not lead to an increase in nuclear safety in the eu or the accession countries, because all nuclear states in the eu and the accession countries are already parties to the international atomic energy agency's nuclear safety convention and must already report on the safety of nuclear power stations.
on the particularly thorny question of reprocessing, we have high level waste that needs to be made safe much faster than is currently the case, and this processing should be continued.
we need to exclude the exportation of waste and indeed, as has already been said, the timetable is way out of line with what the member states can achieve.
i respect the right of each member state to determine its own energy policy.
as a public representative of the east coast of ireland, i am always aware of the threat to my constituents and our environment posed by the nuclear installations across the irish sea, in particular the obsolete, dilapidated and accident-prone sellafield plant in cumbria.
livelihoods and biodiversity suffer as a result of overexploitation of wildlife for food.
small stable rural communities could subsist on the natural resources in their environment without depleting them.
it is therefore important that the conservation and development communities should work together with indigenous populations and civil society on this shared agenda in order to address the underlying causes of poverty and biodiversity loss.
i believe it is essential that the eu clean up these aspects of its fisheries if it is to be committed to a sustainable fisheries policy.
finally, following a request from the commission, the scientific committee on toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment evaluated a study concerning the quality of drinking water in selected european cities.
this would, you said, include 'obtaining an appropriate update by consulting the commission's scientific committee for toxicity, ecotoxicity and the environment'.
madam president, the key aim of the eu's detergent policy has been to safeguard the single market in these products and, above all, to ensure a high level of environmental and human protection.
these appliances are often wrongly connected by householders to surface-water drains leading directly to rivers rather than to so-called foul drains, which channel the run-off to water treatment plants, thereby causing unnecessary pollution in water courses.
it will also take into account the principles of sustainable or environmentally friendly development set out in the gothenburg strategy.
the costs of a cleaner environment and water supply are difficult to quantify, however.
this integrated two-pronged approach, which marries environmental and economic concerns, is a positive departure.
this is one area where the european union can have a practical effect on citizens' lives by improving living standards and increasing environment opportunities.
we must focus on simplifying and establishing a supportive regulatory-environment framework which encourages entrepreneurship and reduces this bureaucracy and red tape.
a human development approach to debt sustainability with highly indebted countries would mean that the first call on poor countries' government resources would be expenditures needed to meet the millennium development goals.
you briefly mentioned environmental issues and you should take this opportunity to ensure that all the outstanding complaints against ireland in relation to breaches of eu law are addressed and resolved.
the irish presidency is determined to focus on the implementation of the core objectives of sustainable growth and employment: they are the two issues we have singled out from what is admittedly a long list.
we need it at all levels: the european union is the world's largest producer of information on the environment.
this treaty has been part of the ec since 1957. after 50 years this treaty promoting nuclear energy is obsolete.
we in ireland must achieve these targets in terms of managing our packaging waste and waste in general.
at the moment we depend too heavily on exporting our waste, because we do not have the infrastructure in place to do so locally, despite a great catch-up over recent years.
mr president, i welcome the emphasis in this directive on the need to reduce discarded packaging and the increase in the targets for the recycling of packaging waste.
- the international treaty on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture is an important legally binding agreement establishing an overall framework for the sustainable conservation of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture.
i support the amendments of the committee on the environment, which we supported in the committee on agriculture.
in february, the european court of justice ruled that waste incineration in municipal waste incinerators could not be counted as a form of recovery, even if energy was generated as a result.
we also find it very alarming that incineration, which we consider detrimental to the environment, has actually now been included as something to aim for.
we all agree that our consumer society produces far too much packaging waste and that more measures are needed to reduce it.
this strategy is in line with the irish presidency's priorities on the environment, which mr cullen recently presented to parliament.
finally, i also support other measures aimed at reducing the amount of packaging waste, such as the targeted taxation of, for example, fast food packaging, as proposed by the irish presidency.
the eu is founded on the values of pluralistic democracy, respect for the rule of law, the promotion of individual and minority rights, solidarity, sustainability, an open economy and respect for cultural diversity.
(applause from the centre) here in parliament we are proud of the eu's commitment to sustainability policy - locally as well as internationally - not least in our constant promotion of the kyoto protocol.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
i am pleased to be associated with the report as draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry external trade, research and energy.
many of the enterprises in question are essential to development in the fields of energy, water, transport and infrastructure.
an overriding goal should be to ensure affordable access to services of general interest, such as water supply, drainage, energy supply, education and health services.
the cap reform has changed the policy framework to ensure a more market-oriented and sustainable agriculture and food industry.
if we believe, as i do, that the european agricultural model must be multifunctional and sustainable, equally it must be commercially viable and competitive.
if this is the way council and the fisheries committee are going to continue they are basically proving correct the cynics and all those who said that the reform of the common fisheries policy was not going to see any achievable result in relation to sustainable fishing.
please consider just a few figures: i spoke about sustainable development.
mr president, let me say unequivocally that if there are proven problems of a serious health or environmental nature linked to eu-produced salmon, then the matter must be dealt with seriously and swiftly.
for me, the crisis in the salmon sector is not just environmental; the real crisis is that the eu salmon industry, particularly in my constituency of connaught-ulster in the west of ireland, is under serious threat of extinction.
if this continues unchecked, there will be no environmental or health issues to resolve because there will be no eu salmon.
we are aware that we have the challenge of overcoming the terrorist challenge with transparency, as a budget to build national unity and give sustainability to democratic security, which seeks to restore law and order.
parliament is right to stress the need to make maritime transport safer, to protect the marine environment and to improve safety at sea.
the numerous meetings scheduled should take account of very important issues such as the mid-term review of the lisbon strategy, the review of the sustainable development strategy (sustainable development and therefore new measures to adjust and improve its implementation), the definition of a new social agenda, the consolidation of the european area of security, freedom and justice and the conclusion of the accession negotiations for romania and bulgaria.
in the first place, given the poor economic performance of the european union as a whole in recent times, the persistent stagnation of our productivity and employment rates and our desire to achieve a fully successful integration of the new member states, the revival of growth should be the main political objective, by continuing to seek to improve the competitiveness of the european model, preserving prosperity and cohesion, without sacrificing key elements such as sustainable development.
the enlargement of the union is a great political, economic and environmental achievement, but it also presents a challenge for the new member states, who must implement all eu laws, and also for the european commission, which, as guardian of the treaties, must ensure that these laws are implemented and which must work intensively in the coming years to ensure that integration succeeds.
however, the commission is proposing new initiatives and increased funding for 2005 in line with the priorities, for example in the field of transport and energy for the preparation of a european air traffic management system, in the field of industrial policy for the establishment of the agency for the testing of chemicals, in the field of justice and home affairs for the further development of the schengen information system, and in research more funding is needed for the decontamination of nuclear research facilities.
i believe, of course, that in some areas which i know well, such as transport and energy, practically everything is done, except for something which is in the last stages of the procedure between parliament and the council.
but not only in the field of transport and energy is everything done, but also in other areas.
we all too want to ensure that the eu does become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. we have seen advances in the policy areas of research and development, financial services, the liberalisation of energy and telecommunication markets, environmental protection and regulatory reforms; it is now much easier for workers and students to move around the eu to access jobs and education; it is easier to set up and run a small business; consumers are already enjoying cheaper telephone calls; significant strides have been made in terms of equality and social protection; the internal market itself has helped to create two and a half million jobs in europe within the last ten years alone, and yet, despite these achievements, it is increasingly clear that unless we implement a broader policy reform programme in europe we will not make the eu the most competitive economy in the world by 2010. negotiations are taking place with regard to the financial perspectives of the eu for the period after 2006 and priority attention must be given to ensure that eu budgetary measures support initiatives to bring about sustainable growth and increased employment in accordance with the lisbon strategy.
i support the implementation of the 'action for growth' initiative, which will bring about an increased level of investment in the european energy and transport networks.
i support the building of a better regulatory environment in europe.
that is not only a failed policy; it has also been proved that those that have the highest tax levels within the european union are the ones that have performed the 'least best' in the changing climate.
i have no problem with that, but where is the proposal for a 'super commissioner' for a socially-inclusive, cohesive and sustainable european society?
economics are fine, they are very important in terms of developing a single market, but they are a very narrow focus for creating a socially-inclusive and sustainable european society.
we must guarantee that we complete the trans-european networks in the transport and energy sectors.
mr president, persistent organic pollutants – pops – are chemical substances that persist in the environment, accumulate through the food chain and pose a risk to human health and the environment.
the ecosystems and indigenous people of the arctic are particularly at risk because of the long-range environmental transportation and biomagnification of these substances.
considerable controls already exist within eu policy and relevant directives such as the weee directive, the roh directive, the water framework directive, the seveso directive and various hazardous waste directives.
pops waste, like all hazardous waste in my own country, ireland, is exported mainly to germany.
germany has substantial involvement in storing pops waste in salt mines without any processing.
it imports pops waste commercially for disposal in this way.
the issue of the disposal of pops-contaminated waste has been at the centre of the difficulties in finding a compromise.
under the requirements of the stockholm convention there are two principal methods for the treatment of pops waste, namely destruction or irreversible transformation.
under this regulation there are options for the management of low content pops waste under the provisions of the waste framework directive.
a third option, which applies to pops waste generally, has also been agreed upon in negotiations between parliament and the council.
in cases where destruction or irreversible transformation is not the environmentally preferred option, pops waste can be stored.
as my colleague mrs schörling pointed out, persistent organic pollutants – pops – are chemical substances that persist in the environment.
they accumulate through the food chain and they pose a risk not just to the environment but also to human health, causing adverse human health effects.
these pollutants, as has been mentioned, can cross borders: they can end up far from where they originated, and indeed they have been found in areas where they have never been used, so there is a serious threat to the environment here.
the european community and all the member states have signed the protocol to the regional unece convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on pops, in 1998, and the global stockholm convention on pops in 2001. while all member states have signed both of these, many states, including my own, have not yet ratified them.
i the environmental protection agency in ireland is setting in place measures to have them ratified, and i welcome that.
as mrs frahm pointed out, the change of the legal basis is very important in relation to ensuring that this is an issue of public health and the environment: it is not just an internal market issue.
- i support this report and fully agree with its condemnation of the limitations on liability for nuclear accidents which give nuclear energy a preference over other sources of energy.
however, everyone in ireland is acutely aware of the vulnerability of the country in the event of a major accident at the nearby sellafield plant or in the event of an accident involving the transport of hazardous waste to the plant through irish waters.
in fact, sellafield is the only major threat to the irish environment, so it is absolutely scandalous that the eu has not applied the polluter pays principle to nuclear accidents so far.
these substances are by definition in the environment, therefore they enter the food chain and pose a risk to the environment, animal health and human health.
with this regulation and other key elements of environmental legislation in recent years, such as the water framework directive and the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, members of parliament can go to the european parliament elections with a real list of achievements in the field of the environment.
i also regret that it has not been possible to achieve the objectives of sustainable growth, full employment and social inclusion set by the lisbon european council.
- mr whitehead, as is well known, requested the report from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which was sent to the committee.
food, clean water and adequate health care are prerequisites for education which, together with energy supplies and fair trade conditions, will provide the basis for the long-term sustainable development of individuals and societies.
if we go down the route of denying basic human rights and basic democratic rights to those we suspect of terror, then we are giving them a victory and we are shaping a society which in the long run will not be in the best interests of the people of this world who want to live in a sustainable peace.
indeed, the court has held in the petrie judgment that, in the investigation of infringements, sincere cooperation and a climate of mutual confidence between the commission and the member state concerned are required in order to allow both parties to engage in a process of negotiation in the search for a settlement of a dispute.
indeed, in her reply, she referred to the action plan, the climate strategy and the sixth framework programme.
a strong competitive and stable economy is essential in order to deliver sustainable growth and a better quality of life to the citizens of europe.
we must fully implement the action for growth initiative, which will bring about an increased level of investment in the european energy and transport networks.
the spring european council and the lisbon strategy are key priorities of the irish presidency, and we look forward to a successful and focussed debate on the vital questions regarding the future economic, social and environmental development of the union.
furthermore, all nuclear material within the european union – as long as it remains in the civilian nuclear fuel cycle – is safeguarded by the nuclear inspection services of the commission and, where the material is to be transferred outside the european union, by the international atomic energy agency.
unlike all european union member states, pakistan is not a party to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and does not have a full-scope safeguards agreement with the international atomic energy agency.
this trade undermines all attempts to halt proliferation, and i would draw the presidency's attention to a statement made in washington by president george w. bush on february 11, when he said that reprocessing is unnecessary for civil nuclear energy programmes.
i particularly support the principle in the report of access for all irrespective of income or wealth, high quality of care and financial sustainability of care systems.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
– mr president, the environment committee's opinion on this issue was very positive: it was clear that the committee wanted to stand by the position taken by many members of this parliament – over 400 members signed a resolution calling for 8 hours as a maximum overall journey time.
in relation to the commission's proposal, many of the amendments tabled by the environment committee were not taken on board in the committee on agriculture and rural development, but i hope the amendments that have been tabled will be supported when the vote takes place.
the environment committee is strongly of that opinion.
recommendation (a5-0146/2004) from the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy on the proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the european community on the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform conditions for the approval of tail lamps for motor vehicles (rapporteur: mr berenguer fuster) (parliament adopted the text)
- mrs lulling, european statistics have never been presented to parliament in such an elegant way before!
the community now spends close to eur 1 billion a year in the region in promoting economic reforms, sectoral reform, institutional and political reform and in supporting sustainable development across the region, including our specific funds for supporting the palestinians and for the reconstruction of iraq.
the answer is two-fold: first of all, our approach is a long-term one which bears fruit incrementally, but i would venture that working on the basis of partnership, consultation and ownership of the reform process by reformers in the region will give us more solid and sustainable results than any attempts to impose democracy from the outside, whether through lectures or through the barrel of a gun.
what is the environment that creates this culture of death and murderous recrimination?
mining and quarrying waste accounts for nearly 30% of the annual eu waste, which equals hundreds of millions of tons of waste.
because of the lack of proper control, mining companies have been able to get away with leaving behind, when they have finished their operations, a legacy which continues to pollute our environment and our water.
all extractive waste has to include inert waste.
in relation to historical waste, that is particularly important in countries like my own where mining activities are not as prolific as they have been in the past.
it is a very important report, and a very important position has been adopted by the committee on environment, public health and consumer policy.
it is also in line with many of the environmental groups around europe who feel that this is crucial, as well as the rapporteur's recommendations.
as far as the lisbon agenda is concerned, i say to our taoiseach that we have failed yet again to deliver progress on our much-quoted ambition for the eu to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. your words, president-in-office, about fruitful discussions, re-focusing on key issues, sustainable growth in employment etc.
when environmental damage occurs, the first question is always, who should pay?
in an ideal world, i would expect citizens to be protected against any risk of environmental damage - and fortunately we are making progress in terms of real preventive measures.
but unfortunately, there is still too much environmental damage and we need to take strict action to ensure that those who cause the damage also pay the cost.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
mr president, waste is a major problem throughout the european union.
if we take municipal waste for example, what we produce is far in excess of the targets set in the fifth environmental action programme.
the prevention of waste is one of the ways of tackling it, because the disposal of waste – whether through landfill or incineration – causes health and environmental problems.
many people in the european union are trying to tackle the issue of landfill sites situated near homes or the fact that incinerators are being planned in some countries, including my own to try to deal with the waste problem.
we welcome the fact that the report has included some very important things, such as compulsory waste reduction plans.
the promotion of re-use is extremely important and particularly respect for the judgment of the european court of justice that waste incineration of municipal household waste is disposal and not recovery.
the judgment was clear in itself, so how could anyone consider that the incineration of household waste was the same as recovery?
this is essential because, by following the road of incineration, any incentive to reduce and look at alternative ways of dealing with the reduction of waste is destroyed.
cadmium pollution of the environment carries very high health and economic costs, including water purification costs.
in the long run this is the right approach to take for the sake of public health, consumer protection and the environment.
the enduring environmental damage caused by the prestige disaster demonstrates that member states acting alone are under-resourced and ill-prepared to face such disasters.
additionally, given the present geo-political climate, we must consider how we can prevent the potential threat of terrorist attacks using the seas of europe.
if we are to offset the effects of global warming and the consequent damage to the global economy, we must reduce the level of greenhouse gases.
i look forward to the irish government's talks this week with the new head of the us environmental protection agency.
i also hope that we can avoid environmental groups and central business groups antagonizing each other on environmental issues.
mr president, from an agricultural and rural development perspective, the delivery of eu policy objectives, taken in tandem with the most recent cap reform, means that eu farmers can now plan to meet the challenging agenda of food security, quality and high environmental standards.
although i support the commission's proposal on corporate governance, the main objectives must include a reference to the promotion of sustainable development, environmental justice and fair trade.
such an approach has clear advantages but will only succeed in an environment where 'green products' are priced at a premium over other products.
the political project we are proposing is based on three pillars: sustainable development, european citizenship and europe's role in the world.
as for the first pillar, sustainable development: for some time now, there have been increasing voices of concern about the state of the european economy.
(applause from the centre) the extent of our legislative engagement and our involvement in all the european institutions, which have helped to create a climate of trust, have given legitimacy, efficiency and trust.
a system in which members of the same parliament have 25 different legal and financial arrangements is, in my view, neither desirable nor sustainable in the long run.
so much was done in these areas it is perhaps unsurprising that the core lisbon objectives of promoting economic competitiveness and sustainable growth must now be left for the dutch presidency to address - a bit of 'pass the parcel' here, i suggest.
at every stage of the domestic chain our record has been extremely bad: only last week nine more infringement proceedings were brought against ireland in the environmental area.
you have a disability bill to introduce, a health and education system to sort out, fishermen and women, farmers and many small businesses in great difficulties, and numerous environmental crises.
now bring your energy home.
the red squirrel – our european native squirrel – is now under threat through competition from a larger, more robust rival and through the destruction of its natural habitat, our deciduous woodland environment.
first of all, on behalf of the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, mr karl-heinz florenz, i should like formally to move the oral question, the subject of which is the eu strategic objectives for the 13th meeting of the cites convention.
this proposal has been discussed at a number of meetings of the working party on international environment issues, which is made up of scientific and management experts from member states.
the trade in wild animal meat for human consumption is just one part of a wildlife trade which includes ivory, fur and the trade in certain animal body parts – a trade which threatens biodiversity and the ecological balance of areas such as central and west africa.
at a national level, eu governments must ensure that their development aid policies are ‘conservation-audited’ to support biodiversity and habitat retention.
i would much rather be talking about problems of conflict of interest in relation to the commissioner-designate for competition, or ineptitude in relation to the commissioner-designate for energy.
however, the point the honourable member makes about the crucial importance of the energy sector in burma is one we have to take account of.
there is an urgent need for a european and global legislative framework for monitoring the effects of underwater noise and regulating the input of underwater noise into the marine environment.
we have enjoyed working with her over the last five years in the environmental portfolio.
there are those who claim that the kyoto protocol to the un framework convention on climate change is destined to fail as the rest of the world waits for those nations already taking part to fall short of their obligations and so provide the perfect cover for their decision not to participate in the first place.
at the half-way point to the 2012 deadline set under the first kyoto commitment period, the world is engaging in ex post facto rationalisation, hammering nails in the coffin of attempts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions before we even enter the second phase of implementation.
the intergovernmental panel on climate change, the ipcc, an international panel of experts which assesses the scientific, technical, social, and economic aspects of climate change estimates that we need to decrease our emissions of greenhouse gas by 60-80% on 1990 levels in order for our efforts to make an appreciable difference to rising global temperatures.
scepticism and climate change are two phenomena that have become so closely interlinked in the global debate on the future of our planet, that we are in danger of losing sight of the very real steps that have been taken, under the kyoto protocol mechanisms, towards setting a framework for future action to control the impact of human activities on the earth.
to focus too closely on the negligible quantitative effect of kyoto, in terms of immediate results of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, however, is to miss the point.
kyoto is only a first step towards addressing global warming but it provides a crucial foundation on which future, more comprehensive and effective policies and agreements must be built.
the value of the kyoto protocol is in that it sets a market-based mechanism to translate environmental protection into economic terms.
it puts a tradable price on global warming.
once properly implemented and extended to include all the other sectors, kyoto will provide a flexible, market-based mechanism to spread the burden of paying for global warming equitably across all sectors.
it would provide a financial incentive for the development of clean technologies that will safeguard the environmental heritage of future generations.
it is time to banish the notion that the future of climate change policy is coterminous with the kyoto protocol.
mr president, we need cleaner energy and more efficient technologies and, in order to achieve that, we need incentives – negative incentives, if you like – such as a carbon tax.
ireland is currently 25% in excess of its targets and yet, a couple of months ago, the then minister of finance announced that he was abandoning a commitment to introduce a carbon tax.
what confidence can we have that the commission will ensure that all member states will comply and fulfil the commitments made in relation to reducing carbon?
it has been estimated that 100 of the largest companies in ireland will exceed the current emission rates between 2005 and 2007. ireland is losing ground in this battle in relation to climate change.
the companies who are currently pleading that they will be uncompetitive if they have to invest in order to create clean energy and more efficient technologies are the ones who escape scot-free!
i appeal to the commission and to the council to insist that the irish government reverse its decision to abandon the carbon tax.
the country with the highest levels of pollution– the united states- refuses to consider the global need for their ratification of the kyoto protocol.
i am deeply concerned that the united states has chosen to tackle this climate change issue through unilateral activities.
climate change needs to be dealt with as a global problem.
if carbon dioxide is not reduced, the arctic ice cover will disappear.
ireland is much more energy efficient than a decade ago.
tackling climate change was never labelled as being easy.
my duty as a mep, is to stress the necessity of climate change protection to: the people we represent, our eu counterparts and our international partners.
i urge the remaining countries that have not made their global commitment to combating climate change, to do so, via the kyoto protocol.
the key to achieving our ambitions in the area of the recycling and recovery of packaging waste is setting attainable targets based on realistic expectations.
our debate should focus not on argument about timetables, but on the reduction of the overall level of packaging and packaging waste through recycling and recovery.
ireland has no energy recovery or incineration facilities so all our targets have to be met through recycling alone.
however, we have seen the rate of recycling of packaging waste increase steadily from 93 000 tonnes in 1998 to just over 414 000 tonnes in 2003. this represents over 45% of the packaging waste on the irish market, all of which would previously have gone to landfill.
if we are to set unreasonable objectives for recycling and recovery of packaging waste which take no account of capacity constraints, we might just as well get it over with now, book our slot in advance at the ecj for non-implementation and spare the commission a waste of envelopes on letters of formal notice and reasoned opinions under the infringement procedure laid down in article 226 of the treaty.
the european union must complete the internal market, improve the european regulatory environment and make the whole european union less complicated.
in addition, i welcome mr piebalgs to the energy brief as a promising and able candidate untainted by the spectre of alleged impropriety, unlike his country's original nominee.
i fail to understand why you cannot tell me and this house why these three state energy, timber and telecoms companies are excluded from the common position.
why is it opposing the inclusion of these three companies in the common position and how can these sanctions be effective if they are not including the energy, timber and telecoms sectors?
who will give us the right to speak on behalf of all of those people if we use our time and energy trying to get one over on a neo-liberal, neo-conservative, communist - or whatever - approach?