what we regret is that there is still no comprehensive legislation on criminal protection of the environment and indeed the conflict between the council and the commission has sunk the hopes, at least of us environmentalists, with the famous appeal later to the court of justice.
on the other hand, the specific issue of marine pollution has already been mentioned and need not be repeated.
in substance, however, this directive is going in the right direction, although it should be pointed out that it is not enough if there is no overall framework for the protection of the environment in general, without which even maritime protection will always be a lesser protection.
we must return to comprehensive community legislation on the environment as a whole and i believe that the council must show itself reasonable and accept the proposal for a directive on the criminal protection of the environment in general, which, i repeat, has been blocked by an appeal to the court of justice.
it would be an excellent step because we would have adequate maritime protection but overall environmental protection which could have an equal degree of protection at criminal level, since there is no doubt that criminal sanctions are what most compel operators in the sector to comply with the rules.
there are, in fact, the by-catch aspect and the environmental sustainability aspect of this very important fisheries sector, which have been well dealt with, and there are the other two aspects which - and here i would like to make an appeal to colleagues - we must always try to keep in balance.
i believe that with the wisdom of this house - and this report is a counter-evidence - we will be able to ensure both, and thus a more prosperous and sustainable tuna fishing industry in the european union.
the definition of 'surfactant', additional testing, derogation from authorisation, labelling, better and more consumer information are all aspects that really extend the protection of the environment and human health and consider animal welfare in the context of product development research.
i therefore also believe that it is desirable to improve this balance in the light of the essential objectives of this legislation: health, consumer safety and protection of the environment.
the amendments tabled by my group, in agreement with the rapporteur, are designed to ensure that these objectives are achieved, in compliance with the key principles of the environmental strategy: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work.
i therefore argue that parliament should not depart from this balance, and it would be paradoxical if it did so in fact on the grounds of reducing the environmental impact of the measure.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would just like to say that i believe - and that is why i voted for the de rossa report - that monkeys and other exotic species are valuable resources of our planet and that in a modern and developed nature and environmental protection these resources should be protected and preserved for future generations.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
however, it is also stated that the current political climate in relation to asylum and illegal immigration would be - think about it - a possible obstacle to the establishment of cooperation in the field of immigration management and integration policies.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i agree with what my colleague from the green group said a moment ago: in europe, the process of liberalisation of crucial sectors such as energy is affected by the policies of the national champions.
we have national champions in certain sectors - not only energy, but also telecommunications - which are often still national champions in public ownership, where the state is playing a double role, as controller and as direct actor, direct manager of companies.
after the galileo project, we are waiting for the global monitoring project for the environment and safety.
on 3 february, a communication based on a detailed report prepared with the european space agency and the member states, drawing lessons from the initial phase and presenting an action plan for the global monitoring for environment and security (gms) initiative.
the envisat satellite is admired by everyone for its ability to monitor the environment and is a wonderful example of earth observation, for which we are at the forefront of development.
the commission has also taken the initiative of developing a new approach to the problem of the environment.
other 'then be concerned,' i said, 'think of the pensioners, including the pensioners of the states you will represent, and remember to set up a committee on social affairs and the environment.
the abandonment of the mountain has not only economic repercussions, but also, as we know, social and environmental ones.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected.
but, i repeat, it is also a slap in the face to the regional local government which has been and is still working effectively, also through the structural funds, to create the most favourable production environment for the firm and its investments: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
magnetite, produced only in terni, is the only special steel strategically important for the energy sector.
it is therefore essential that the european union introduce systems to reduce pollutants and pursue environmental impact, which are priorities if the objectives of the kyoto protocol are to be achieved.
we must find solutions in the field of industrial policy to protect quality production, environmental and working conditions in the steel industry.
meanwhile, manufacturing is already being moved to india, with an eye to china, where labour costs are paltry and labour and environmental standards are non-existent.
among the measures adopted were the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, the framework decision on combating corruption in the private sector and the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it happens so rarely that i won't waste time - yours and mine - to counter your remarks.
i also do not think that exceptional measures, with the assumption of supervision, are acceptable, because there is a risk that a new body will be created which could hardly make an additional contribution in an environment which needs to be restructured.
countries which are at the forefront of research, and traditional firms, in the face of china and economies with low labour costs, social policy and environmental policies.
we are certainly in favour of the european youth week because it also symbolically underlines the priority commitment to a new impetus for european youth which can count on many assets, such as intercultural learning, environmental protection, sport and the arts, to name just a few.
it is obviously difficult to operate in a fragile environment, which presents at least three endemic controversies.
disqualifying oil pipelines on ecological grounds is just a rhetorical exercise.
- the next item is the report (a5-0449/2003) by mr paulsen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls on feedingstuffs and foodstuffs (com (2003) 52 - c5-0032/2003 - 2003/0030 (cod)).
this is due to differences in salaries, energy costs, etc.
we intend to maintain the income of virtuous olive growers until 2013, to protect the environmental and socioeconomic values of olive growing, but more than the commission proposal does, we are strengthening the quality and food safety factors, the fight against fraud and the transparency of labelling, again specific support for young people who must be encouraged to start olive growing.
as regards the aid system, in our assessment the extreme variability of socioeconomic and environmental conditions suggests that the percentage of decoupling should be made flexible, starting at least at 60%.
we have worked on the historical payment entitlement, which refers to the average of the payments made to the individual producer per car produced during the reference period, and above all we have introduced and insisted on financial intervention in support of quality production, traceability, market monitoring, promotion and strengthening of producer organisations and specific environmental measures.
the need for transparency, the attention to quality, the environmental and social value of this production, seems to me to be covered in the commission proposal and have been further reassessed in the opinion of parliament's committee on agriculture.
we believe that it is imperative to abandon the present community policy, which is unnecessarily costly for european taxpayers and consumers, and which is harmful to the environment, to the competitiveness and innovation of the agricultural sector itself and to the economies of the poorest countries.
in this legally defined framework it will therefore be easier to resolve other problems, including the croatian unilateral declaration on the exclusive marine ecological zone in the adriatic, which is also criticised by the european union as unilateral and not reached through an agreement between all the parties concerned.
the general climate between zagreb and ljubljana has, however, improved recently and the values of security, stability and prosperity to which slovenia aspires are those of the european union.
i believe that 2007 should remain the target for bulgaria and romania; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this makes the position of our group and the other groups which will support these amendments and vote against the economic and environmental sustainability of the bridge all the more significant politically.
come and see the public aqueducts in italy, even the big aqueducts, the waste of water resources, the waste of public money.
however, i think there is broad agreement on the three fundamental objectives: accessibility, high quality and sustainability.
- (it) with the vote in parliament on the transeuropean transport networks (tens), we have fortunately reintroduced the strict obligation to comply with eu directives on strategic environmental impact assessments, consultation of the public and the management of protected areas and residential areas.
the bridge over the messina strait, which is part of the north-south railway line, which was proposed only at the request of the italian government and which was never subjected to an environmental impact assessment, as former commissioner van miert himself admitted to members of the european parliament, has been removed from the list of projects of european interest.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
the energy and timeliness with which these institutions proposed and adopted measures aimed at strengthening the various criminal measures in the fight against terrorism, judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the harmonization of sanctions and the fight against illegal immigration have not been matched by a strengthening of the freedoms and rights of european and non-european citizens.
now, the fact that we want to pay special attention to the environment is right and proper and it is absolutely desirable to involve all citizens.
the only thing we know for sure is that the environment is not a priority, and that is extremely negative for us.
of course, this would be possible if we decided to get out of a stability pact that is now dead but is well present in the rhetoric, if we decided to exploit the potential for sustainable growth that we continue to leave aside, if we decided to invest in sectors of the future, such as research, clean energy, eco-tourism and public transport.
the climate has become much calmer - which is very important in those parts - in the last period.
if this is the context, then one can also reason about the unilateral decision of croatia to declare a part of its coast as an ecological and biological zone.
the main reasons for this initiative can be found in the determination of a more homogeneous framework of reference in the field of company law to facilitate the exercise of cross-border settlement and restructuring; the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment and the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the protection of the environment; the environment; the protection of the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment; the environment to achieve the first of the objectives set out in the action plan, it is essential to ensure an effective and up-to-date system of protection of shareholders and their rights.
it is also necessary to obtain parliament's support for the increase of tolls in particularly sensitive areas, such as mountainous areas and those affected by a high level of pollution.
i would like to end by stressing that the commission has made every effort to present the european parliament with a text that is acceptable to all; transit countries must be able to apply a charging system that enables them to promote their own network in the context of sustainable transport development, and at the same time the peripheral countries of the union and their carriers will be the first to benefit from an effective charging policy in europe that provides them with a viable network.
as regards the reference to parliament's contribution, on all these occasions, in the conclusions relating to the individual reports and individual interventions, the need was highlighted first of all to harmonize transport tariffs in all the member states in order to consolidate the european single market; the possibility of transforming - in some cases in an objective and realistic way, if not radically, and at the same time with considerable effort - the structure of fares in order to allow the internationalisation of the external costs of transport, which are often overlooked in decisions on modal choices and thus in infrastructure construction strategies; the need, however, to develop a charging system commensurate with the use of transport infrastructure; the need to make the mechanisms for calculating these costs uniform for each mode of transport and, of course, in the relationship between member states; finally, the need to give governments transport policy instruments based on the cost of infrastructure to encourage the use of modes of transport with a lower environmental impact, but above all to allow new investment in the infrastructure sector and, in the long term, therefore, the completion of the design linked to the full implementation of the major infrastructure projects for the transeuropean transport networks, which also suffer from the problems of financial coverage referred to a little earlier and which, moreover, we all know.
on the other hand, the cost problems - also of a social nature - that the growth of mobility entails, from increased pollution to environmental problems, the increase in noise, especially congestion levels and the accident rate, must be addressed.
the action plans will focus on political dialogue and reform, trade, market and regulatory reform, cooperation in the fields of energy, transport, the information society, the environment and people-to-people contacts.
only if we in europe are able to regain leadership in the areas where we were strong, especially in knowledge, will we have the credibility to export values such as quality of life as a whole, peacebuilding and sustainability as the basis of responsible policies.
the borders of 25 countries are being widened, and so are the boundaries of the european parliament's activities, of a europe which began as the community of coal, steel and nuclear energy, which then became the common market and hence the currency, to facilitate financial and commercial exchanges, and which is now beginning to become, by applying the lisbon agenda and the commitments of the european constitution, the europe of work, solidarity, social justice, welcome and integration, in a word, the europe of the people and its citizens.
it is not by indiscriminately saving that the european economic system is made ecologically and socially sustainable and also competitive.
he also used the word sustainability, in these times of great fashion but for many of very little substance.
yet there is much to be done in the next six months, encouraging not only manufacturing systems, but also governments to make environmentally sustainable decisions.
for example, we could do a better job of implementing the kyoto protocol, resist the pressure from the chemical industry on the reach directive, really put the environmental technology action plan on the table, remove subsidies for jet fuel, call the bolkenstein directive into question.
mr president, we shall meet again in six months' time to assess the sustainability of your presidency.
we must re-engage the community institutions to achieve development compatible with the times of adaptation of the human being, safeguarding the environment as a source of life and guarantee for the future of humanity and paying more attention to the concept of enterprise, even in its smallest and most artisanal dimension.
the current commissioner for the environment, however, believes that it is not necessary to label seeds contaminated by gmos below 0.5%, thus contradicting the position of the european parliament, which was adopted by a very large majority at the end of the last legislature.
we are facing a criticism of liberal policies, a profound social malaise and a social, economic and environmental crisis, which are due precisely to the failure of these liberal policies, starting with the stability pact and privatisations.
in these years of attempts to reduce air pollution and its effects on climate change, the greenhouse effect and the consequences mentioned just a few minutes ago, the international civil aviation organization has been one of the bodies that has been building a policy to combat air pollution.
this policy also provided for the use of economic instruments - so-called market instruments - and voluntary measures, as well as the possibility of trading pollution rights and introducing taxes and fiscal instruments to reduce pollution.
despite the decisions taken at the time, which basically assigned this organization a very parallel task to that of implementing the kyoto agreements, which was to provide for the elaboration of guidelines for the organization aimed at ensuring that the different countries or the different organizations such as the european union could then implement the same standards, we are faced with the possibility that at the next assembly of the organization, to be held between 28 september and 8 october in montreal, an amendment would be tabled which would eliminate the possibility of using market instruments to combat pollution produced by aircraft engines, thus taking a step backwards in the whole policy.
as we discuss this, as the conviction of the problems we face grows stronger, as the evidence of the relationship between aircraft emissions and the consequences for air quality grows, this step back would be a particularly serious fact.
in the alternative, i ask them what measures they intend to take to maintain the european union's right to apply such measures, to build an emissions trading market or to introduce tax measures to discourage the use of highly polluting fuels within the european union or elsewhere.
at the same time, i believe that an appeal should be made to the iraqi provisional government and the forces of the international coalition to ensure that the efforts to free the hostages are not hindered, and that military operations and bombing, which are causing so many civilian casualties in iraqi cities and which are certainly not helping to create a favourable climate for negotiations to save the lives of the prisoners, are suspended.
a worldview based on the exclusive political and economic supremacy of one country is not sustainable.
if the reform of the pact does not include the golden rule, the ecb is right in saying that it is better to leave it alone and leave the pact as it is, stupid and open to attack by the strongest, à la carte, but also useless if not harmful, since the timid interpretative corrections, variously sponsored, on the flexibility of the medium-term deficit as well as on the sustainability of the debt are of little use.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
ideally, we would have preferred to see a resolution that balances the need for greater protection of some species with the sometimes conflicting considerations of promoting sustainable use and, above all, respecting the scientific integrity of the convention.
we certainly appreciated the leadership of you and most of your commission - not all of them, alas, and i am referring in particular to commissioner de palacio - on the issue of the kyoto protocol and climate change in general.
of course, we would very much like the commission to propose a stability pact on climate change, a real plan, with clear figures and sanctions.
mr president, i draw on my experience of the past few years as head of a local authority in southern italy to highlight one of the elements of the prodi commission's indisputable value: the commission's approach to the problem of the environment is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
it is in this context that we welcome the objectives set out in the communication, namely the simplification of the schemes, the concentration of preferences on the developing countries which need them most and, above all, the promotion of sustainable development.
as for the new gsp+ system, which we consider to be positive in that it supports sustainable development, we believe it is essential that clear, reliable and at the same time realistic criteria are defined.
i am voting in favour of the proposal, but i think that the new gsp should contain: • reference to the fight against drugs as an 'integral part' of sustainable development.
i would like to make three comments on the content of the koch report and on how the lisbon strategy is to be continued: when we talk about the european social model, we tend to focus, at least in these reports in the context of the debate on the lisbon strategy, exclusively on the standard of living, on the level of income to be guaranteed, but we believe that this is an extremely limited view of the european social model, which also involves the issue of how we live and therefore the models of solidarity that exist in europe, how we consume and therefore also respect for our environment, and how we produce, thus trying to apply positively the criteria of transparency and participation.
thirdly, in this report, as in others, the question of integrating the environmental dimension into the lisbon strategy seems to be really just a kind of formal tribute, which is not widely believed but which, for reasons of conformity and political correctness, is at least cited.
environment and sustainable development.
the first is that a few days ago there was a very important, once very positive, international event: the eu has also been active in the field of energy and climate change, and has been active in the field of energy security.
the second is that, incidentally, the environment is precisely the area in which the member states are lagging behind most in the implementation of community policies.
if it does not take a technological leadership in the field of environmental technologies?
we must therefore invest more in economic cooperation between our companies and in research and sustainable development.
the oral question (b6-0018/04) by mr karl-heinz florenz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to the commission on the environmental impact of high-intensity active sonar in ships is on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the devastating effects of global warming, noise and chemical pollution, overfishing and shipping accidents are dramatically degrading our oceans and, inevitably, the whale populations that inhabit them.
the noise pollution caused by sonar devices not only causes physiological damage, but also interferes with the natural behaviour of animals and their normal communication.
last year we voted a resolution on the protection and conservation of the marine environment.
this parliament unanimously called for the application of coherent and coordinated measures to halt the decline of biodiversity by 2010 and to promote the sustainable use of the seas, protecting and conserving marine ecosystems.
i am not going to remind you, mr president, that these were the political objectives which we committed ourselves to at the last world summit on sustainable development.
the commission is supporting this commitment to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010. the second is that the commission needs good scientific results if it is to make effective recommendations.
it is a waste of money because as long as the turkish occupation of part of the island, which is now part of the european union, continues, and as long as turkish troops are in the northern part of cyprus, there will be no development.
the agenda includes a joint debate on the council and commission statements on climate change.
at the end of the debate i received a motion for a resolution from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the agenda includes the corbey report (a6-0027/2004) on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste.
finally, mr president, we believe that stavros dimas' choice of the environment is not accidental.
it reflects the precise hierarchy of priorities of your commission where the environment is not.
we are certainly prepared to try to make a charm offensive against commissioner dimas and to admit that we were wrong, if he can show us more energy and more competence.
there was a dutch commissioner criticized for his conflict of interest and there still is; there was an inadequate hungarian energy commissioner who was promoted to taxation; there was an italian justice commissioner who was rightly removed and now there is another justice commissioner, also italian, who points out that the government of that country - whose president has notorious judicial problems - needs to be protected by his commission.
you have spoken of social justice, the union's primary role, support for sustainable development, pretending that all this is not in open contradiction with the policies you and many of your commissioners support.
according to the annual report which our ombudsman has presented to us today, he has dealt with a wide range of issues, including the practical contribution of the european ombudsman network: the commission has also been active in the field of the protection of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency (eea) since its inception in 1995. the importance of his timely and impartial action is therefore plain to all.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that during today's debate many colleagues from various political groups, some of them unknown, have spoken at length about sustainability.
at a time when many citizens are increasingly distrustful of the european project, the first strategic objective of the new commission and all the other community institutions should be to return to being visibly effective in improving the quality of life of citizens, to become a positive instrument for democratic growth inside and outside the european union and to transform the union into an area of technological innovation geared to ecological and social sustainability.
we therefore strongly urge the commission to be more determined to take into account the key commitments of the european union, such as sustainability, social cohesion and gender equality in all its policy proposals, and to make a concrete commitment to re-establish a balance between the three pillars of the lisbon agenda - economic, social and environmental - in order to avoid promoting rigid economic objectives at the expense of the quality of life of our citizens individually.
we call on the commission to put forward bold proposals for a coordinated effort to revive investment in environmental technologies and employment measures.
as regards competitiveness, we would like the indicators to be extended to include qualitative, social and environmental indicators such as income distribution, poverty and energy efficiency.
in this connection, we would like to revive our old proposal for a climate stability pact, which provides for a system of joint management of the kyoto commitments that is not only repressive but also positive.
we must encourage the commission and parliament to evaluate the laws that are passed also in terms of sustainability and social impact.
we are very concerned about the accumulated delays and the fact that the commission seems to have practically abandoned this priority, especially in the environmental field.
with regard to drug use in prisons, the observatory indicates that drug users are overrepresented in the prison environment, that inmates' drug use varies from 22% to 86%, depending on the prison population, the prison and the country, and that prisons are a high-risk environment for the spread of infectious diseases.
europe is therefore not just an area of free markets and free movement with a single currency, but above all the capacity and willingness to export peacefully the model of the rule of law, the protection of minorities and human rights, sustainable development, and an efficient and cohesive economy and finance.
in the name of this universal right, which is one of the strengths of the constitutional treaty, and in addition to the creation of an international commission to act immediately, i ask the newly elected romanian authorities not to waste precious time and i invite them to give these children, on christmas, parents who already love them and with whom they can build a better future in a europe of peace.
we believe that this programme should be streamlined and speeded up as much as possible, that local non-governmental organisations should be given more responsibility and that special emphasis should be placed on micro-projects and campaigns which have in the past been used in the difficult democratic environment of certain countries.
these documents should provide us with an assessment of the extension of the community action programme for civil protection, together with the measures envisaged by the other two community programmes in force, which will provide the parliament's committee on the environment with useful suggestions to be included in the desired single action programme that the commission will prepare for the period 2007-2013.
on behalf of the group.
how can civil protection in europe be allowed to remain divided into competencies spread over the environment, health, land, agriculture and internal policies?
the impact on these environments - as indeed happens for all types of marine environment affected by undifferentiated sampling techniques - affects, as is well known, not only pelagic and edible sessile species, but also non-edible sessile forms and, more generally, causes serious damage to environments essential for reproduction.
the protection of these environments, in addition to the recognition of the international conventions cited in the report, is therefore an important measure to ensure not only environmental protection but also the continuity of social and economic prospects for the human communities that persist in the regions concerned.