the presidency would be well advised to propose new own resources, for example a european tax on carbon dioxide emissions, or a tax on savings instead of the bureaucratic system devised at feira.
we now know that criminal energy is equally shared on both sides of the atlantic.
- mr president, the lisbon strategy remains the most coherent concept for making europe a centre of economic, social and environmental excellence.
i am not ignorant of the health and environmental problems caused by 'persistent organic pollutants'.
i had asked the european commission to provide us with the environmental impact study and the report on public participation, as required by the espo convention.
this is a confirmation, if not a further one, of the flagrant lack of transparency which the european commission tends to practise whenever nuclear energy is discussed.
renewable energy is the energy of the 21st century for climate and environmental reasons, to reduce our dependence on oil and gas.
but even in the development strategy, without renewable energy, there is no future for billions of people in the world.
i am glad that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we need long-term targets in the eu for climate change -60% by 2050 and at least 20% by 2020 for renewable energy to also provide investment certainty in the energy sector and other sectors.
our problem today is not so much renewable energy itself, because europe is the leader in renewable energy, but it is now behind china in efficiency strategy.
today, less than 10% of the european investment bank's loans go to renewable energy.
political pressure is also needed here, because renewable energy is the energy of the future.
(es) madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive establishing a framework for the establishment of ecodesign requirements for energy-using products is quite innovative, and i would like to thank mrs thors and mr turmes for their excellent work in the respective committees, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the aim is to strike a fair balance between, firstly, competitiveness, environmental protection and consumer protection, all in the context of sustainable development, secondly, between the different environmental aspects of products, avoiding the transfer of problems from one aspect to another and taking an integrated view of the whole issue and finally, between the community institutions, since it determines the conditions which will allow the co-legislators to agree to grant a mandate to the commission for the adoption of implementing measures for specific products.
i would like to highlight the main elements of this proposal, which, as its title indicates, aims to improve the environmental performance, ecodesign, of products that use energy.
because industry will be motivated to improve the environmental performance of products with great potential for self-regulation; because we will avoid market fragmentation and the investments will be compensated, thanks to that large market, by investments in the improvement of designs; because the measures will aim at a rapid payback for consumers and take account of the characteristics of the market in an enlarged union.
energy consumption is one of the main interactions of products with the environment and i am glad that this aspect has been highlighted in the discussions held by the various committees when studying the proposal.
i shall have occasion to comment in more detail on the amendments which this house is going to table, but i would now like to mention that the discussions held in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy have been extremely constructive.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– madam president, the design of appliances, it systems and industrial motors is crucial not only for climate change and security of supply but also for the overall economy in europe.
this offers the single largest potential in respect of climate change, and also the most immediate potential because turnover times for such appliances are sometimes two to three years and at most ten to fifteen years, which is much quicker than for energy infrastructures.
otherwise we can simply forget about climate change.
this shows that the same industrialists who do not care about the global environment also do not care about creating added value and jobs in europe.
mr president, mr cocilovo, sooner or later the european union will also be able to set itself rules, so that the two principles can be applied: the costs of the infrastructure are borne by the user, who is responsible for the cost of using the infrastructure, and by the polluter, who will bear the costs of the negative effects of congestion, pollution and health damage, which are becoming increasingly evident.
the report also contains some information on the possibility of differentiating fares to take account of congestion, pollution and to encourage modal shift.
mr jarzembowski and the others who keep saying that there are no figures: accidents 19 billion, noise damage 11 billion, air pollution 62 billion, climate damage 35 billion - 134 billion damages caused by trucks in europe.
i am naturally in favour of a system of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading, which would make economies more able to adapt to the requirements imposed by the kyoto protocol objectives.
that treaty completely ignores the views of this house and also creates a large distortion in the internal energy market, which we created recently, because it provides billions of euros for research and cheap loans and ensures dependence on the nuclear industry.
if you are not persuaded by my arguments, think of the power of the voters and citizens in austria, germany and spain, in all the countries which no longer consider nuclear energy as a centrepiece of the solutions for tomorrow.
but there is a kind of european social exception: the feeling widely shared by our peoples that the economy must be at the service of social and environmental well-being.
europe must be at the forefront of the fight for true globalisation, for inclusive social, environmental and economic globalisation, i.e.
according to this strategy, a stronger economy will stimulate job creation and promote social and environmental policies that ensure sustainable development and social cohesion: basically, not great, almost a truth of la palice, for economics students and all followers of the social market economy, a post-war concept.
i should like to thank the president-in-office for putting innovation and environment at the heart of the mid-term review of the lisbon process.
both the current climate change threat and the current crisis in the prices of a series of commodities, like oil, copper and other resources show us that we urgently need a de-linking of resource efficiency, energy efficiency and the economy.
europe has an answer to both these questions, and that is to strengthen europe as a leader in environmental technology and services.
therefore, it is not by watering down environmental policy and regulation in europe that we will give the necessary impetus for innovation in our industries.
we will give our agreement to a team which is far from a dream team, but which seems more competent than barroso i. the new commission will have to work hard to win the confidence of the vast majority of meps who want an active, prosperous europe that defends its social and environmental model.
i particularly regret the harmful climate of witch-hunting that has developed after the ill-fated statements of a candidate for commissioner.