recently, the imo agreed on the amount of a supplementary fund for oil pollution damage.
report drawn up on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
mr president, on behalf of the committee on the environment, i should like to make a number of comments on the management of fissile materials and radioactive waste.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also expressed its concern about the proposal for a directive on waste.
this approach will not benefit the nuclear industry, the environment or society.
as regards the processing options, the committee on the environment considers that there is no broad international consensus on this.
even in france, the country of nuclear energy par excellence, national legislation requires a range of different options to be examined.
the committee on the environment also believes that the export of waste outside europe should be banned and that the proposed directive should be amended.
the commission should publish and allow comments on its current plans for the management and treatment of radioactive waste from all member states.
it should draw up a list of waste that cannot be exported into space or the sea and cannot be processed.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a nuclear accident is a very good one.
we have also adopted a more flexible approach to geographical indications and even environmental indications to facilitate negotiation.
the real challenge is to do it at the pace, with the energy and ambition required.
the citizens also want respect for nature and the environment and a consumer-friendly agriculture.
developing countries in particular have benefited from a good investment climate, reduced import duties and transparent regulations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
this insoluble waste problem should be an important reason for abandoning further use of nuclear fission.
in june 2003, i asked the commission for clarification on plans to make geological disposal for the final storage of the most dangerous types of radioactive waste compulsory for eu member states from 2018. according to the reply, a study of the assessment of the performance of geological insulation systems has shown that in all european countries there is a suitable subsoil with suitable clay, salt or crystalline rock layers.
it now appears that the possibility is also being opened up of treating this waste as a commodity which must have access to all european countries because of the free movement without import permits.
i agree with the rapporteur, mrs hiltrud breyer, that loans for the financing of nuclear power stations should no longer be granted for the purpose of expanding nuclear energy but for the purpose of abolishing it.
the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has almost turned this report around, and therefore i, like the rapporteur himself, can no longer support it.
we have been and continue to be very active in dealing with the consequences of chernobyl and other environmental disasters, but i should like to ask the commissioner what more we can do in order to prevent another environmental disaster occurring when something goes wrong with pesticides.
the assessment of detergents is carried out with due regard to environmental and health effects.
a ban on phosphates also has the positive effect of reducing the spread of the harmful cadmium in the environment.
however, the recent conclusion of the scientific committee on toxicology, ecotoxicology and the environment suggests that a ban on phosphates throughout the eu should be reconsidered.
the scientific committee has demonstrated the adverse environmental effects of phosphates and has found the alternatives to be appropriate.
the positive thing is that member states which have already introduced legislation which is stricter than this directive for environmental reasons will not be prevented from enforcing it.
nevertheless, it is important for development cooperation, public health and the environment that we improve the knowledge of this phenomenon in europe and define a policy to deal with it.
the eu's development aid does not take any account of this destruction or of the environment in general.
i support the proposals on ecotourism as well as environmental protection, education and legislation, although it is clear that they leave much to be desired.
the results of the liberalisation programmes are wrongly glorified, as is shown by the experience of the netherlands and other countries where the liberalisation of public transport and energy supply has been to the great detriment of the inhabitants.
the commission has also been active in the area of the environment.
the environmental impact of packaging should be minimised.
the main thrust of this was the introduction of a packaging environment indicator.
in the debate on the thematic strategy on recycling and waste prevention, which has already begun, it will certainly build on this.
in these judgments the court of justice concluded that waste incineration with energy recovery is not recovery if this is not the main objective of the operation, with the consequence that some member states may now or in the future unexpectedly find themselves in a situation where they infringe the directive.
it was clarified that waste incinerated in incineration plants with energy recovery could be included in the objective of the directive.
the vote tomorrow will bring an end to the revision of the packaging directive, but it will not bring an end to the debate on the wider context of recycling, waste prevention and the use of natural resources.
parliament wanted to put more emphasis on the environmental impact of legislation and a flexible way of working.
our discussion of environmental performance in the first reading and of economic costs in the second reading almost inevitably leads to the conclusion that the optimal recycling rates can vary considerably from country to country, and ultimately we must go in that direction.
the aim of this legislation is further sustainable development, a concept which we must give full play to.
a packaging environmental indicator can encourage the use of more sustainable packaging.
packaging does not have to be an environmental problem in the long term, but contributes to sustainable development.
the sustainable development relationship between a developing country and a member state could be the ideal framework for, for example, providing assistance in the event of job losses.
the high environmental, food safety and animal welfare standards in europe affect the cost of meat, vegetables and potatoes, for example, and leave european agriculture behind in terms of cost worldwide.
it was therefore also positive that the committee on development and cooperation was not only concerned with privatisation and full liberalisation but also with services, the fight against poverty, small businesses, cooperatives and sustainable government initiatives.
a policy which still rewards farmers intensively and is bad for animals and the environment.
she wants to spend a lot of money on sustainable development, and that is good, that touches my green heart.
the european commission has drawn up a whole strategy to encourage research, but why has the same not been done for the environment?
it is right to call attention to what we call the welfare states and i would like to emphasize that we very much support the approach which the european union has recently taken on the issue of iran, namely to bring the country under economic, political and diplomatic pressure to comply with the agreements and controls of the atomic energy agency.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens, which is the subject of a proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, is not acceptable.
- mr president, this parliament has always been strongly in favour of the promotion of a sustainable freight transport system.
it is a realistic approach and guarantees adequate financial compensation in the event of oil pollution.
the favourable investment climate for foreign companies created by the dutch government in the 1990s opens up opportunities for fraudsters and tax evaders.
and then, of course, the environment.
it is true that the evaluation of existing and the creation of new environmental legislation must also take much more account of the employment effects than has been the case so far.
pops are hazardous to humans and the environment and should be handled with care.
the european union still has a surplus of money at its disposal for the time being if we put an end to the vast under-consumption, the useless prestige project galileo, which has been taken over by competitors, the waste of agricultural aid to large farms, the military plans and the costly frauds.
they prefer, for reasons of their own economic interests or selfless solidarity, to ignore the shortcomings in the fields of environmental protection, human rights and democracy.
if they get their way, russia can continue unchecked to develop into a state which intimidates opponents into withdrawing from all political activity, which deprives parliament of its role, which crushes national minorities by military means, and which completely subordinates the environment to the expectation of short-term economic gain.
the report is too one-sided in its focus on the very important and urgent issue of reproductive health, but it is a pity that it does not take into account other important issues which were also explicitly addressed in cairo, such as sustainable development, research, education, especially for women and girls, the role of the family, the fight against violence against women, etc.
or what about women and girls who are forced by their environment and especially by family members to be sexually mutilated?
president, commissioner wallström, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the heavy metals and pahs mentioned have been known for many years to be harmful to the environment and to human health to a greater or lesser degree.
the european commission is only interested in monitoring pollution.
mapping pollution alone does not improve air quality.
in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection i supported the approach of the rapporteur, mr kronberger.
for example, it is known that emissions are largely caused by diffuse sources, such as heating of homes and traffic.
we are not thinking only of the metal industry, but also of power stations, waste incineration plants and the waste recycling sector.
the incineration of waste releases a considerable amount of heavy metals.
how much is not known precisely, because the obligations for measuring emissions are very minimal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection we are debating the health risks of minimal residues of pesticides on our food, and then it is absurd to spend 1 billion euros a year on tobacco production.
- mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, i should like to begin by congratulating bulgaria on the progress it has made: 26 chapters have been closed, 6 others are still open.
however, much more needs to be done in the area of the investment climate, by establishing a transparent and clear business environment so that entrepreneurs know that their investments are safe and cannot be lost due to corruption.
romania's path towards the european union is difficult, owing to the late start of privatisation, the slow reform of state-owned enterprises and the fact that the business climate in the country is still lagging behind.
the restructuring of core sectors such as energy, mining and transport will also have to take place.
we are now faced with a twofold requirement: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
on the contrary, the avoidance of unnecessary transport contributes to a better environment and to the well-being of humans and animals.
my group believes that an adequate level of public spending is essential for public services, social security and the environment.
on the other hand, waste of public money and megalomania do not solve any problem.
in our vision, people and the environment are above traffic.
that is why we think that the van miert plan is too large, too dangerous for the environment and far too expensive.
the new proposal for a directive completely upsets the existing system and threatens to severely restrict the member states' freedom to impose conditions based on the principles of the general interest, the protection of the quality of society and the environment and the guarantee of fundamental rights.
other meps are more concerned about the desperate plight of millions of roma, the marginalisation of the russian minority in the baltic countries, the continued discrimination against homosexuals, the introduction of electoral rules that exclude minor political movements and the serious disregard for environmental concerns.
as long as managers want to control their controllers, a transparent climate in which people take responsibility and discharge cannot be created.
i therefore call on everyone to support the compromise we have reached with the council and to prevent us from adopting the amendments of the committee on the environment, because that is not the right way of doing things.
the committee on the environment has delivered an opinion on the same subject, but unfortunately the committee on agriculture has not adopted all the recommendations.
this call to the commission and the council was: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of experts in the field of the environment.
these are all interesting developments and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy supports the commission's proposals wholeheartedly, but has a number of comments in view of these developments.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy calls for the removal of barriers to the use of recycled materials.
in short, our committee wants modern technologies to be used for the benefit of consumers and the environment.
president, mr goodwill, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the past five years parliament has been working intensively on the climate problem.
on behalf of my group i can say that we are generally satisfied with the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment.
in the context of the fight against climate change, the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases should be reduced as much as possible.
we therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's efforts to tackle the main sources of emissions.
we want to eliminate fluorinated greenhouse gases, but only in cases where it is really possible and where there are alternatives.
a large proportion of the fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions is due to the use of air conditioning in cars.
many people are not aware of the negative impact air conditioners have on the environment and climate.
given the negative effects of fluorinated greenhouse gases in air conditioners, i would advocate their phasing out as soon as possible.
for example, the commission could look at the energy efficiency requirements for cars when all the on-board equipment is fully used, because it is precisely these luxury accessories that negate the improved energy efficiency of engines.
that is not an example of sustainable development.
in short, we would like to see the result of the environment committee, with a few amendments, adopted by the plenary.
the committee on the environment rejected such an amendment by one vote, which was not surprising, because just before the meeting of the committee on the environment it was assumed that my amendment would not be declared admissible.
because for the first time after decades of debate, a legal title has been found which will ensure that the costs of repairing environmental damage can be recovered from the polluter.
this is new, it's a cornerstone, a bridge that connects economic and environmental law.
i think that because of the many 'powers' in this directive there is still a fairly high chance that a kind of patchwork quilt will emerge in europe and that the member states will put the economy before environmental protection, particularly in economic times of weakness.
i therefore regret that my final proposal to use article 95, maximum harmonisation, was not adopted and we have relied on article 195. environmental organizations, environmental ngos, have also played a special role in this.
i also hope that the member states will not abuse their licensing policies and the state of the science to disrupt the level playing field for economic activities - which we so much want within the internal market - by allowing some member states more than others and no benefit to the environment.
he rightly mentions the indispensable contribution of croatia's neighbours to a climate of mutual trust and security in the region, as mr pack has also pointed out.
the environment is not only at odds with the population, but also with the rapid profits that raw materials bring.
it is therefore of the utmost importance to the pse group that the european council and the commission discuss this report and set strict conditions for world bank participation and mining projects, so that they can only take place if the standard requirements relating to the social, economic and environmental impact of raw material extraction are met.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the most effective way.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment.
it will not benefit democracy, human rights, peace or the environment in the eu.
economic policy may also be understood in a broader sense as energy policy.
the emissions trading act is also independent of the kyoto protocol.
energy companies and large corporations can now earn emission allowances by investing in the conversion of chinese coal-fired power plants to gas, in making coal-fired power plants more efficient, in solar power plants in indonesia, in wind farms off the coasts of developing countries or in capturing waste gas from landfills.
there are many, many more ways to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases.
carbon sinks are out of the question, because in the eyes of the european parliament, growing trees is only a temporary solution.
even when trees die a natural death, they give up all the carbon they have taken in.
it is true that hydropower makes a real contribution to combating climate change, but ecological and social criteria must be taken into account.
we would be putting our ecological credibility at risk.
there is a great deal of interest outside europe in our emissions trading system and in this linkage directive.
fifteen states in the united states and four provinces in australia are planning to set up similar emissions trading schemes.
we will have to extend the scope of the emissions trading system to aviation and later to the road sector.
climate change is getting worse every day, and we need to act together.
for climate change, it doesn't matter where the greenhouse gas is produced.
with this linking directive in hand, we are now taking the fight to solve the climate problem on a global scale.
madam president, last year our colleague at the time, mr jorge moreira da silva, reached an agreement with the council on trade in greenhouse gases.
this was a difficult task, since the agreements already made with industry in a number of countries to reduce greenhouse gases had to be incorporated into european policy.
today, tomorrow after the vote, i believe a new agreement has been reached and new agreements have been made to extend emissions trading to third countries.
we in europe have pursued a defensive policy on the environment for too long.
it helps them to introduce sustainability and it will also bring them more prosperity.
the trade projects that can now take place with developed countries or with countries in transition to a market economy will increase the market on which emissions trading will operate and thus also reduce the cost per tonne of greenhouse gas reduced.
high environmental performance at the lowest possible cost.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
madam president, i wish to begin by thanking the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and in particular the rapporteur, mr blokland, for his report.
consequently, today many batteries still end up in the environment.
the current proposal aims to achieve a high level of environmental protection while at the same time contributing to proper functioning of the internal market for batteries.
i am confident that the proposed collection targets for portable batteries, in combination with the proposed high recycling targets, will protect our environment against the risks involved in the disposal of those batteries.
in this respect, in addition to the existing restrictions on the use of those substances, established by the end-of-life vehicles directive, the following additional measures would be introduced: a ban on landfilling and incineration of all industrial and automotive batteries, which covers most batteries containing lead or cadmium, and an additional collection target for portable nickel-cadmium batteries, which requires monitoring of the waste stream to determine the volume of discarded portable nicad batteries.
the extended impact assessment has identified the proposed policy options as the most sustainable from an economic, social and environmental viewpoint.
the application of the producer responsibility principle is an important step towards incorporating the external environmental costs into the production phase and, at the same time, towards encouraging producers to market more environmentally friendly products.
all batteries and accumulators should be diverted from the waste stream and recycled in order to avoid environmental damage and recover the various metals they contain.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i should like to explain my report on batteries and accumulators.
we have had a very long debate on batteries in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has reached agreement with all the groups on most of the points.
the explanatory memorandum to the european commission's proposal, on pages 9 to 12, clearly describes the harmful effects of the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead on the environment and health.
since cadmium is a volatile metal, it is irreversibly released into the air during waste incineration.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has therefore adopted a ban on the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead.
finally, madam president, i would like to respond to a comic strip by the european portable battery association which falsely suggests that all kinds of applications could no longer be used if the report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection were adopted.
the commission proposes a closed loop system, but the rapporteur has already pointed out that only 80% is recovered, which means that 20% inevitably disappears into the environment.
the commission proposal has another problem, namely the removal of cadmium from the waste stream.
a very small amount of cadmium from a very large waste stream.
the rates can be adjusted to the time, day, weight and euro emissions.
i too am concerned about the current lack of clarity on how to internalize the external costs, environmental costs, social costs and accident costs.
in this case, the business community is satisfied that co2 emissions trading can start as early as 2005 instead of 2008 thanks to the energetic efforts of the green rapporteur.
it is in line with the liberal view that reducing emissions is too much for animals at home and can therefore be done better in countries where it is cheaper.
the expected benefits of this are faster achievement of results worldwide and an incentive for developing countries to use environmental technology developed in europe immediately in their industrialization.
the advantage of this proposal is that production forests which are intended to be felled or which can be burned can no longer be included, through fraud, in the list of carbon sources which remove carbon dioxide from the air and convert it into oxygen.
unfortunately, the real values of the european union are the market, the currency, free competition and armaments, rather than democracy, human rights, the environment, peace and solidarity.
then it was about the quality of the growth we're producing, about sustainability and about biodiversity.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector.
there are some empty phrases, but sustainability and the promises made about it are no longer heard, they are ignored.
i want a europe of people and the environment, not of markets and currencies.
it will lead to a long-term co-financing plan and probably also make it possible to circumvent the requirement of environmental impact assessments.
i am opposed to the idea conceived by the berlusconi government in italy that tax revenues should be spent mainly on infrastructure and other large public works rather than on public services, environmental protection and social security.
the rejection of all these amendments will be a heavy burden for europe and an unnecessary attack on the environment for many years to come.
to prevent possible oil pollution in a spanish port, the tanker's captain was ordered to leave the coast and eventually sink the ship in open water.
proposals have been made for the designation of emergency ports, compulsory insurance cover to enable shipowners to be compensated for damage and expenses, the use of dispatchers to trace missing containers and stricter compliance with current environmental and safety rules.
it is unfortunate that a european coast guard service, which is being planned, should not only be used for the joint protection of the environment, safety and compliance with fishing restrictions, but is also directly linked to the hunt for immigrants and possible terrorists and the further building of a european superstate.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has tabled some 16 amendments to the european commission's proposal.
this course of events shows how much we must insist on the sustainability of political change before a candidate becomes a member.
there is every reason to expect a lot from this presidency on these points, the opportunity, energy and energy given to mr balkenende are not small, and for those who have been given a lot, much can be expected of them.
instead of pursuing unlimited economic growth at the expense of social security, public services and the environment, it is better to maintain adequate taxation and to pursue a redistribution of national and european income in favour of the weakest and of useful community tasks and also for the integration of migrants and for the elimination of poverty and despair in the world, which still provide a continuing breeding ground for terrorism.
our colleague, dorette corbey, has made a particular point of introducing you to the environment committee, and today we are counting on your support for this proposal on behalf of all our colleagues, so that we can bring the european citizen closer to our work in the committees through the website.
the community is committed to sustainable development in both ecological and economic terms.
aviation and the environment are not friends.
a sustainable policy requires courage and foresight, and these proposals do not address these issues.
the european community must show that transport and the environment are less contrasting than in the amendments.
- as the climate spokesman for the press group, i would naturally like to join all the colleagues who have expressed their concern about the icao resolution before us.
our group is committed to a very decisive climate policy and we do not shy away from difficult choices.
we believe that international emissions trading can provide an additional incentive for airlines to develop new and efficient aircraft, and thus sustainable aviation.
now over 300 million litres of water have been polluted, and a lot of investment will have to be made to clean up this pollution.
this concerns in particular the implementation and enforcement of the international basel convention and the european regulation on shipments of waste.
in this case of the ulla ship, which was loaded with hazardous waste, it is particularly strange that the ship left without the permission of a receiving country.
this must be coupled with a climate change, which also means more trade union freedom and academic freedom.
as belarus is a major transit route for energy and other goods supplies from russia to eu member states, the repressive regime of lukashenko is strong.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
air traffic is growing rapidly, the old airlines are being supplanted by price-fighters, the inhabitants of the ever-growing airports are being sickened by noise pollution, global warming continues and international rail traffic is being destroyed by competition.
in order to limit environmental damage, to pay for the costs of nuisance caused by aviation and to protect other modes of transport, air traffic should be subject to normal taxation.
first of all, i should like to say that the location of the summit in vietnam is certainly a catalyst for the reforms achieved in that country, but it should be noted that there is still a gap between the dream of a well-functioning and fair trading climate and reality.
mr president, in view of the undeniable radicalization of the political climate in vojvodina, i would like to emphasize paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution.
our problems are the disintegration of society and environmental pollution.
we have the means to actively combat poverty, indifference, crime, the destruction of nature and the degradation of the environment.
in environmental policy too we try to prevent new technical developments from harming flora and fauna.
despite our positive appreciation of certain european policies, such as environmental, agricultural and internal market policies, we believe that the budget as amended by parliament is spending far too much money on matters which - according to the principle of subsidiarity - should not be included in the european union's work.
in exchange for a limitation of iranian developments in the field of atomic energy and possibly nuclear weapons, the iranian democratic opposition in exile would be kept on the list of terrorist organizations.
i would like to thank you, mr president, once again for accepting the plant basket which symbolizes european nature and biodiversity.
we must work together to ensure that this happens, but we must also ensure that the natura 2000 network receives sufficient financial resources to protect europe's biodiversity, which is badly needed.
mr president, concerning the issue of climate change there are two main areas in which the eu is playing a key role.
member states and the commission are currently preparing the european emissions trading system, which is due to be launched on 1 january 2005. the second focus of attention is climate policy in the longer term.
in december this year, the tenth session of the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change is due to take place in buenos aires.
but the protocol is only a first step and co2 emissions will have to be reduced even more after 2012. i should like to convey the council's thanks for the efforts parliament has made to persuade russia to commit itself to the kyoto protocol.
once in force, it will legally oblige countries with binding targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to reach these targets by 2012. the kyoto protocol is the main instrument in the global fight against climate change and a good example of the effectiveness of global cooperation.
in spring 2005, the european council will adopt a position on the eu's future climate policy.
the basic aim of long-term eu climate policy is to limit the rise in temperature to a maximum of 2°c above pre-industrial levels.
in preparation for that meeting, the european commission is currently producing a cost-benefit analysis taking account of both environmental factors and competitiveness.
action on climate change demands the broadest possible worldwide coalition.
the european union presidency, in the framework of the troika, is currently implementing action with key countries all over the world regarding the forthcoming conference of parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and early discussions on options for a regime for the period beyond 2012. members of the european parliament can also play a significant part in this process by discussing long-term climate policy with parliamentarians from countries outside the european union, for example at the forthcoming tenth conference of parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
mr president, by now 189 countries are party to the un framework convention on climate change and i hope they will all turn up for the tenth conference of the parties in buenos aires.
this event will also mark the tenth anniversary of the entry into force of the united nations framework convention on climate change.
secondly, to explain what the european union is doing to address climate change.
the first thing is to take stock of what many parties have already done to address climate change.
this is also an opportunity, especially for developing countries, to be able to explain that many of them have already taken action and to illustrate the way in which they are the first ones to be affected by climate change.
the second objective is to explain what the european union is doing through our european climate change programme as well as the emissions trading scheme that will start from january 2005. the system will also be officially presented to all ministers in an event that we are organising in close cooperation with the dutch presidency and the argentine government.
we will ensure full briefing and also rapid transmission of information to the members of the european parliament and we hope that you can engage in a lot of outreaching activities during cop 10. having a strong eu delegation – composed of representatives of all the european institutions at the cop – gives the union an important opportunity to encourage the rest of the world to take more action now in response to the threat of climate change.
i am really glad, to be honest, that we are able to speak to you today about climate policy and the eu's commitment to the climate conference in buenos aires in december.
it is a fine conclusion that you can pass on this climate dossier in the knowledge that the kyoto protocol will soon enter into force, having been ratified by the russian state duma on 22 october and by the russian federation council on 27 october.
my group welcomes president putin's decision to tackle the problem of global warming together with the european union and other countries.
climate policy in europe is very much supported.
our group is very pleased that the european parliament and the council of ministers are committed to an ambitious climate policy aimed at combating the greenhouse effect.
in the run-up to the climate conference in buenos aires, europe has confirmed its leading role.
i am glad that europe has reaffirmed the need to support developing countries in adapting to the effects of climate change.
some countries, particularly developing countries and small countries, are already facing the consequences of the greenhouse effect and need help.
it is good that parliament and the environment ministers support an ambitious climate policy.
concrete measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions must also be developed.
the ideas of the presidency on the environment sound good, but they must be translated into results.
that is good news, not only for those who have fought for this protocol, like you, mrs wallström, but also for those who experience the effects of climate change on a daily basis.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (com (97) 0243 - c4-0179/97).
i would therefore call on the council and the commission to show in buenos aires, together with the european parliament, that the eu wants not only a strong economy but also a strong environmental policy.
there is still much room for improvement in this protocol, for example adding aircraft emissions.
more countries joining the protocol means better control of global emissions.
55% of annex 1 emissions are now covered, let's work hard on the remaining 45%.
commissioner wallström, this is your last debate as environment commissioner.
you have been a fine commissioner for the environment.
one of the key points is the continuing tension between maintaining the internal market and protecting the environment.
the european commission is calling into question a number of reuse schemes in europe under the packaging directive, which is also intended for the environment.
member states may introduce new packaging reuse schemes or maintain existing ones if they provide an environmental benefit compared to recycling or recovery of packaging material.
the attitude of the epp and industry is quite astonishing if we take the state of the environment and nature seriously.
this new report concludes that the limits of sustainable development are becoming clear.
if we do not conserve and carefully manage natural resources such as water and energy, then two worlds collide, the world of nature and the world of human civilization.
we have not been sufficiently successful in integrating sustainable development into our production and consumption behaviour.
this requires companies that can make sustainability a brand, companies that understand that citizens and consumers care about the future of the planet and are willing to contribute.
reuse is also not always better for the environment and there is no reason to make reuse compulsory.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not being implemented in a way that is compatible with the common market.
wim kok notes that this laudable quest for a sustainable society in which people, the environment and the market are in balance is not being derailed by a lack of political will.
not only can we express our opinion in the resolution on what needs to be done, but we can also express our opinion on a concrete, sustainable addition to the packaging directive.
you have a choice: a voice for a europe that strives for a sustainable society and acts on it or a voice for a europe that speaks beautiful words about sustainable development and the lisbon strategy but lacks the strength or the courage to back it up with action.
you have said that you intend to continue to spread and promote the message of sustainable development.
i hope that after the vote on the packaging directive tomorrow you will be able to point out to the press that europe is not only talking about sustainability, but is also acting on it.
environmental and social policy are under pressure.
however, we will need to adopt a sustainability strategy if we are to preserve our prosperity and well-being for future generations in the long term.
i wholeheartedly agree, and this is certainly also due to the dutch presidency, that the three pillars of the strategy - economic reforms, social cohesion and sustainability - in balance and coherence, remain the starting point for the lisbon process.
but, mr president, social cohesion and sustainability can only be achieved if we are able to make europe a real player on the world market again.
the report and the council conclusions rightly do not address the coherence of economic and social policies and sustainability policy, the characteristics of the lisbon strategy.
there can be no question of subordinating social and environmental objectives, even though growth and employment are rightly central.
the greens' logic is therefore that a doctor cannot be responsible for public health, a former trade union leader cannot be responsible for social policy, a woman cannot be responsible for emancipation and a green cannot be responsible for environmental policy.
here is a spiritual climate in which there is no room for differing views of principle.
for example, investments in rural development, the environment, renewable energy, research and exchange programmes for young people, teachers and artists.
let's talk about a minimum rate on environmental pollution or corporate tax, which goes directly to the european union.
to promote a truly safe environment for children, therefore, a major investment in parental education is needed.
implementation can never be a reason to launch a new attack on the european agricultural policy with its high standards of food safety, the environment and animal welfare.
but the opportunity is there, and it's not the time to waste it.
on the one hand, economic cooperation and the work on a common energy policy, on the other, an open debate on values, democracy and developments in russia in this field.
this is an incredibly small amount when we consider that european agriculture has the highest standards in the world in terms of the environment, animal welfare, landscape protection, food security and food safety.
there is insufficient investment in renewable, sustainable energy sources.
that is bad for the environment and it also makes us dependent on all kinds of dubious regimes in countries where oil is flowing in abundance.
to money for research, development, human rights, the environment, foreign policy and culture.
it is also important to show this in the negotiations, because this is the only way to create a europe which is not the old europe of the market and the currency, but a europe which is concerned with people and the environment.
the aim is harm reduction, reducing the harm to the user and the environment.
but it is a waste of time if we do not, on the other hand, do everything we can to combat drug abuse.
long-standing environmental problems, caused by waste from mining and nuclear power, have not been solved.
there is always a great deal of attention paid to large steam power projects, huge factories and monumental buildings, but not to street children threatened by street smuggling and prostitution or to serious environmental pollution.
this parliament, in its previous composition, was extremely critical of the possibility that romania would meet the standards of democracy, human rights and the environment that are common in the european union in the short term.
the group of the european united left would like to see romania join the european union as soon as possible, but, as in turkey, the problems of democracy, human rights and the environment must be solved, and that is still a very big problem at the moment.
only such a decision would show that europe is really serious about sustainable agriculture, in which animal welfare must be one of the priorities.
however, investment in the south is attractive to them if wages are low and especially if environmental and safety requirements are below par or very poorly controlled.