what is necessary is sustainable development combining economic effectiveness with the principles of social justice and environmental protection.
sustainable development of the countries of the european union also involves the development of its regions and the consolidation of local government.
i believe that promoting economic competitiveness while respecting the principles of sustainable development will help to improve quality of life for all europeans.
i think that we are beginning to create a climate in which proximity is not just a matter of dealing with border guards or legal problems or with passing permits, but with active cooperation between us, including celebrations of specific personalities, which will have to be decided in the context of this genuine joint cooperation.
you have declared yourself a supporter of the lisbon strategy based on three pillars: economic, social and environmental, but you have not said a word to us about the reasons for the unsatisfactory implementation of the lisbon strategy so far.
we believe that our proximity can and must be manifested in the long term in close cooperation and exchange in areas of mutual interest such as trade, justice, home affairs, transport, energy, the environment.
but we want to emphasize the legal framework for the elections, as well as the freedom of the media and the environment in which the campaigns of the various political parties must be carried out.
in the meantime, we will of course devote a great deal of energy to finding a good basis for a good compromise for the 2005 budget.
this legislation allows for consumer choice through clear labelling and case-by-case risk analysis, while ensuring that gmos authorised in the european union are safe for human consumption and for the environment.
if there is a will to continue to support palestinian autonomy, as you have said in your four-point programme, then we must consider, as we have just said, how, after the experience of partial waste of our money, we can ensure that the funds we are allocating to supporting the stabilization of palestinian autonomy are not wasted again.
the european union did not anticipate this when it planned its long-term policy of replacing natural fuels with alternative and renewable fuels.
it's really time to change our policies quickly from being dependent on price increases and imported oil, as well as excessive greenhouse gas emissions, and just go in the direction of environmental protection.
at the eu summit in november, the german chancellor is expected to propose full liberalisation of the eu energy market by 2007, the creation of a european financial market supervision and the harmonisation of financial trading rules in the twenty-five.
young people have a different view of europe, they are well-educated, full of energy, free from the fears and prejudices of the older generation.
the baltic sea states have a special opportunity to cooperate in the field of energy security, which is important for the whole of europe.
the czech republic, germany and poland have the most to contribute to the implementation of the kyoto protocol, which requires the development of european clean coal and carbon capture technologies.
i would like to point out once again that the lisbon strategy is a combination of economic dynamism, social cohesion and the right to sustainable development.
i therefore disagree with the view that mr kok and his high-level group have not paid sufficient attention to the social and environmental dimensions.
the environment has been well taken care of, particularly from a 'win-win' point of view.
finally, i would refer to paragraph 5 of the european council conclusions, which states that competitiveness must be strengthened by a balanced strategy with economic, social and environmental dimensions.
i also think that mrs oomen-ruijten has rightly spoken about the need for better regulation and the reduction of regulatory burdens in order to strengthen the business environment in europe and economic growth.
this nation, living in a specific environment - a natural environment - was isolated from the world around it.
they include, for example, joint action on justice, energy and the environment, deeper trade relations, i.e.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
you said the environment.
yes, environmental protection is very important.
environmental protection, yes, but ideological dictates, no.
and just like in the beautiful landscape of schwarzwalde, i have to look at these giant electric windmills that are deficitary, worthless, that are subsidized by the german government, that are subsidized by the european union, and they are ruining the landscape, because let's remember that the environment is also when it is a visual environment, and not just an environment for ensuring all possible rights for animals.
it is of the utmost importance to the european parliament, but also to national parliaments, to decide which strategic actions the new commission will consider most important for achieving both the objectives set out in the treaties and the objectives which the current situation and the european union's environment require.
i therefore thank the rapporteur, mr garridze, and mrs jensen, for remembering that the climate of cooperation which distinguishes budgetary work in the european parliament from that of national parliaments is also due to the coordinators, namely mr ferber, mrs guy-quint, mrs trüpel, mr seppänen, mr roszkowski and the vice-president, mr walter, mr böge and mr mulder.
we now come to the next item on the agenda, which is the recommendation for second reading (a6-0049/2004) by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament regulation on maximum residue levels of pesticides in and on food and feed of plant and animal origin and amending council directive 91/414/eec [9262/1/2004 - c6-0110/2004 - 2003/0052 (cod)) (rapporteur: robert sturdy).
many speakers have also rightly drawn attention to the challenges romania faces, including improving the environment and the status of minorities, as well as promoting the fight against corruption and crime.
ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that the total number of people who were affected by the bhopal gas explosion twenty-five years ago is over 100,000, and those who are still suffering from the effects of the polluted environment are in the millions.