but we know that marine pollution from oil spills or other harmful substances continues even without accidents.
it also does not solve the problem of the lack of adequate facilities in ports for ship-generated waste and the obligation on ships to use these facilities.
the current proposal for a council decision is based on the idea of tightening the civil and criminal liability of maritime transport, which generates pollution, and has allowed, in line with the commission's position on the directive and the traditional positions of the european parliament, that parliament to improve the initial text with two amendments which i consider very relevant.
the second, along the same lines, extends the liability of offenders beyond damage to species of fauna or flora to substantial damage to the protected environment, which is nature, the whole framework of marine and coastal life subject to the risk of pollution.
the new legal framework on marine pollution and the future lisbon maritime surveillance agency, which the brussels council set up last month, give us reason to believe that europe is finally taking its responsibilities.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0442/2003 by mr vidal-quadras roca, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive (euratom) on the management of spent fuel and radioactive waste (com (2003) 32 - c5-0229/2003 - 2003/0022 (cns)) and - a5-0441/2003 by mr seppänen, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive (euratom) laying down the basic obligations and general principles concerning the safety of nuclear installations (com (2003) 32 - c5-0228/2003 - 2003/0021 (cns)).
the consequences of liberalization in the sectors affected are already evident, not only in redundancies and increased job insecurity, such as in railways, energy, post and telecommunications, but also, in many cases, in higher fares and prices and in the poorer quality of services provided to the population.
despite the recognition of the role of public services, which they call services of general interest, by subjecting them to the rules of competition their social role as essential public services for the population, the fight against poverty and social exclusion, the guarantee of human rights, the regional development of deprived areas, the protection of the environment and economic and social cohesion is devalued.
it will be important to know them in order to outline the future regulatory environment of the agencies in a more complete, coherent and bold way.
we therefore insist on the need to review the current mandate in order to avoid the disastrous social and environmental effects of the trade system that has been put in place in the wto.
we want fair and equitable exchanges geared to development, to public health, to respect for the environment, to cultural diversity.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing is simply a destructive fishing practice that undermines the sustainable conservation and management of fisheries resources.
- (pt) i support this initiative, stressing the importance of adopting criminal law for the protection of the environment.
we have seen various environmental disasters, such as the recent sinking of the prestige off the coast of galicia.
the necessary measures must be taken against pollution from ships to prevent the recurrence of such disasters.
i agree with the rapporteur that the proposal for a directive on the criminal protection of the environment should be adopted as soon as possible, so that provisions can be introduced to harmonize criminal and other penalties against serious pollution in breach of community rules.
this framework decision aims to strengthen the criminal law framework through measures to approximate the laws and regulations of the member states on ship-source pollution, and it contains provisions on jurisdiction (to prevent conflicts of jurisdiction) and provisions to facilitate cooperation between member states (to establish contact points for the exchange of information).
it is important to eliminate the current disparities in the level of penalties which may distort the possible - especially financial - consequences of a pollution accident depending on where it occurs, since such pollution may affect several member states of the union.
it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field.
such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us.
it can be said that oil pollution of the seas is not only caused by accidents but also by illegal discharge.
i reject the proposal to create a european coastguard (amendment no 6) not only because of the sovereignty problems it raises, but because it is not the best solution to ensure that the rules are respected and that they are monitored, and because it does not answer the crucial question of resources, where the present proposal shows political aims that go beyond merely fighting pollution.
the need for effective cooperation and exchange of information between the various coastguards and for the necessary financing of adequate means of monitoring and combating marine pollution by each member state is one to which the community budget can make an important contribution.
it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field.
such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us.
- (pt) having such a clear memory of the ecological disaster caused by the sinking of the oil tanker prestige in november 2002, i believe that the illegal dumping of oil and other harmful substances is a very serious act that puts people and the environment at risk and should therefore be subject to criminal liability.
the principle of 'the polluter pays' should therefore apply in this field, as is shown by the adoption in december of a proposal for a directive laying down stricter community rules on environmental liability.
it is appropriate to take action not only against accidents but also against the main sources of pollution of the seas caused by those who systematically violate the community rules in force in this field.
such action shows political awareness of the environmental problems that affect us.
- (pt) the it is widely accepted that the need to find acceptable solutions to the management of radioactive waste is one of the most important, if not the most important, problem for the exploitation of nuclear energy.
the commission considers that the member states and the candidate countries are not currently tackling the problem of waste in a satisfactory manner and that member states should set up appropriate strategies and prepare detailed programmes for the long-term management of all types of waste on their territory.
the aim of the directive is to promote this work by highlighting the importance of the various aspects of the problem, namely the identification and preparation of landfills, the implementation of the necessary research and development with a view to the best technical waste disposal solutions and technology that can reduce the quantity and the hazard of waste generated by the production of nuclear energy.
member states should be encouraged to cooperate in waste management, taking into account the principle that each state should treat its own waste except in very specific situations and that everything should be done in such a way as not to harm public health and the environment.
- (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety.
safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal.
all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications.
the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste, most of which is not permanently landfilled.
each member state shall propose to the commission by 31 december 2006 a time limit for preparing and submitting to the commission the long-term management of all types of radioactive waste on its territory, in accordance with international standards.
- (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety.
safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal.
all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications.
the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area.
i do not think that this proposal is intended to replace the convention on nuclear safety - which was concluded under the auspices of the international atomic energy agency (iaea) - and to which all the member states of the european union are parties, but rather that it is intended to maintain the principle of a high minimum level of safety under the responsibility of the member states, on the basis of enhanced cooperation and solidarity, which is precisely what is expressed in concrete terms in the 'best practices'.
- (pt) in voting on the three reports on nuclear energy, i have followed the political line which i consider to be the most sensible for those who, like me, are in favour of developing this source of energy, provided it is carried out with the greatest possible safety.
safety of the installations - and not just of those who work there - and safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste, both the final location and the transport to the site of disposal.
all member states and candidate countries produce radioactive waste from nuclear power stations, experimental reactors and from many medical and industrial applications.
the commission's proposals stress the need to ensure an adequate level of safety in the commercial exploitation of nuclear energy and the need for the countries concerned to implement a number of provisions in this area.
my support for this proposal for a decision is based on these concerns but also on the consideration that increased economic and social cohesion within the eu should also consist in a more active contribution to the economic recovery of many of the countries where these plants are located, for which a secure and adequate energy supply will of course be of great importance.
their cold climate means a shorter growing season and higher costs for both agriculture and livestock, as well as low and less varied grain yields.
i therefore support the objective already set out at several european councils, namely that we should ensure the sustainability and distribution of agriculture throughout the european territory and preserve not only the landscape as a more or less picturesque element, but above all the viability of the agricultural community as a whole.
the report therefore begins by focusing on two key problems in the tuna fisheries sector: the loss of competitiveness of the community fleet and industry in relation to imports from third countries and the preservation and sustainable management of resources.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as i had the opportunity to say during the debate on the first reading, i believe that the regulation under consideration represents progress, particularly for producers, consumers and also in terms of environmental protection.
despite certain limitations and the fact that it is not sufficiently far-reaching, the regulation does contain some excellent proposals aimed at protecting the environment through controls on biodegradability and protecting consumers by ensuring that they are informed about the composition of products, content lists and effective labelling.
this means that we have serious reservations about the regulation, because it risks undermining the right of member states to introduce effective legislation on crucial issues such as the protection of human health, the environment and consumer rights by introducing restrictions on products which do not comply with these provisions.
respect for and protection of cultural diversity is essential for collective consciousness and, hopefully, sustainable development.
the fact that i voted in favour is also because i wanted to achieve this humanitarian objective despite the political conditions prevailing in iran which prevent the free exercise of democracy and which make it impossible for international control of military programmes to develop nuclear energy.
some progress has been made in this respect over the past year, but this is an area of intervention where continuous action is needed, especially in the face of a difficult economic environment which encourages member states to use state aid mechanisms to safeguard their businesses and the employment of their nationals.
all bilateral trade agreements of the european union must incorporate the principle of corporate social responsibility, respect for the fundamental rights of the international labour organisation and sustainable development.
that is why we consider it essential that the commission should present a concrete, coherent and explicit action plan with regard to instruments, financial means and timetable, and that it should give particular emphasis to these points: the promotion of innovation and the use of new technologies in the sector, the strengthening of interaction between all the branches of industry, the implementation of a broad vocational training programme, the modernisation and strengthening of support for small and mediumsized enterprises in the sector and the protection of the environment.
the european textile industry is now threatened by competition from countries with very low prices for their products, where there are no environmental concerns or constraints.
the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy adopted this proposal unanimously at its meeting on 12 january 2004. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
the commission's proposal, which has been examined by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and has resulted in only one amendment, is of the utmost importance for plant genetic resources.
the importance of adopting this report is shown by the fact that 33 countries - out of the 40 co-signatories - have already ratified the international treaty covering 35 food crops and 29 fodder crops, which establishes a legally binding overall framework for the sustainable conservation of plant genetic resources in the food and agriculture sectors.
instead, public contracts could be a tool for selective support to specific enterprises and regions in order to achieve economic, social and environmental objectives in accordance with the political choices of each country by virtue of other public contract award criteria.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of public procurement, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to cover public contracts for the supply of water, energy, transport and postal services.
the commission proposal for a directive of 12 july 2002 is a continuation of the liberalisation already begun in the energy, postal and transport sectors, in line with the objectives of the so-called lisbon strategy, and is intended to open up the water supply to private operators.
the new legal instrument, a directive, aims to reduce the amount of packaging and other polluting waste by setting a number of targets which are more ambitious than those of the previous directive, which is still in force.
particularly noteworthy are the changed minimum recycling rate, with 55% of packaging waste to be recycled by weight in 2008 compared to 25% today, and the range of very concrete measures to be taken to recover and recycle the different types of materials used in the manufacture of packaging.
this prioritization of competition over other economic, social or environmental considerations is accompanied by a policy of market liberalization and deregulation, coupled with a deep-seated aversion to state intervention in the economy, especially in the form of state aid.
the prolonged helplessness of the experts in the face of this epidemic has generated a new kind of insecurity which has resulted in a high number of victims in the first place and in a climate of instability in society because it has highlighted the risk to the lives of all those who could contract the disease.
there is a clear need for international cooperation, because no state is able to combat the consequences of a major pollution of the sea on its own, and the aim of cooperation must be to prevent and effectively combat such pollution.
i therefore support the conclusion by the eu of this protocol on cooperation to combat pollution in the mediterranean, one of the protocols to the barcelona convention (a regionally based initiative to which 14 mediterranean countries have acceded).
with its long coastline, portugal should always support any initiative which promotes international cooperation to prevent and combat marine pollution.
compatibility with eu legislation is not a problem, as this is even stricter than the protocol, as the eu has stepped up and strengthened its efforts to prevent and combat marine pollution.
in the case of the united states, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the threat of pollution.
the terrible accidents of the last few decades have shown that no state is capable of combating the consequences of a major pollution of the sea on its own.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) parliament was asked to give its opinion on control measures to ensure a comprehensive monitoring and inspection system which would make it possible to exploit resources in the area covered by the convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east atlantic fisheries on a sustainable basis.
the stevenson report calls on the commission to be more consistent in the management of sustainable fisheries and calls for clarification of the eu's powers of control and inspection.
the integration of environmental requirements into the cfp also includes the adoption of measures to minimise the impact of fishing on marine ecosystems.
the measure will bring major environmental benefits without any significant impact on the fishing sector, as fishermen will continue to be able to use driftnets outside the fishing zone where the darwin mounds are located and within the protected zone they will be able to use vessel-built gear that does not come into contact with the seabed.
i also strongly support the idea of setting up a fisheries monitoring body in each of the outermost regions, both to monitor fisheries and to monitor the state of fisheries resources and the environment.
the integrated prevention and control of pollution, which is the aim of this directive, can be achieved by a system of approval of installations, which we welcome.
since the gothenburg summit, the eu has proposed 'sustainable development', the only guarantee of human development, which considers respect for the environment to be an essential precondition for rapid progress.
concepts such as 'cross compliance' in the technical conditions of operating appropriations, the exchange of good practice and the definition of best available techniques are just some of the ways in which we can ensure the integrated prevention and control of pollution from a wide range of industrial and agricultural activities and achieve a higher level of environmental protection.
the 1996 directive under consideration has established a system of authorization of new installations which obliges users to introduce pollution prevention measures.
fishermen are the main beneficiaries of sustainable exploitation and recovery measures.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) scientific research has become a very important instrument in the implementation of the common fisheries policy and is essential for the sustainable management of resources.
if sustainable management of aquatic resources fully justifies the protection of endangered species, fishing limitation measures should be duly justified by sound and up-to-date scientific advice and by integrating the pragmatic observations of fishermen.
such measures are therefore acceptable only if they are strictly proportionate to the objectives of sustainable resource exploitation and also take into account their economic impact.
we are facing a repetition, and worse, of agenda 2000, when what was needed was to increase funds taking account of the increased needs in terms of economic and social cohesion resulting from enlargement, to promote sustainable development, quality employment, the improvement of social conditions and the policy of cooperation and development with the least developed countries.
the objectives of 'competitiveness' and 'multifunctionality' must be reconciled, so that farmers are guaranteed a certain minimum of security and can be confident that they can maintain acceptable living conditions and stable incomes, and so that an economically sustainable farming community is created throughout the eu that can maintain the greatest possible number of farms and jobs.
the food and animal health crises that have occurred in the eu show that the current agricultural model based on the cap is not sustainable.
the development of a sustainable agricultural culture therefore requires the development, implementation and financing of an agricultural research culture which makes it possible to identify the importance of agriculture for both the development and functioning of rural areas and for high-quality nutrition.
the mere 2% of the sixth framework programme's resources are not enough to finance research into, for example, more sustainable agricultural production, food quality and safety, rural income alternatives (non-food production), the gender dimension, new forms of market regulation and improved organic farming methods.
other areas where research is needed are in relation to gmo crops and biotechnology, not least the coexistence of gmo crops with conventional and organic crops, the possible risks of releasing these crops into the environment and introducing them into the food chain.
it will bring benefits to the european automotive industry, as it can reduce production costs, facilitate access to and promote expansion opportunities on the european market, and have positive effects on road safety and environmental protection.
- secondly, fishermen must be involved in the assessment of stocks, as the european parliament has also requested in its opinion on the integration of environmental protection requirements into the common fisheries policy, where it is regrettable that they have not been seriously involved in the assessment of the northern hake.
- thirdly, measures to restore stocks, which involve stopping fishing and reducing catches and fishing effort, must be assessed for their socioeconomic impact and financial compensation must be guaranteed to those affected, especially fishermen, since the sustainability of resources is a vital objective for fisheries and fishermen.
firstly, the fight against marine pollution.
however, it is necessary to define with the greatest degree of precision the mode of operational intervention of the agency, in particular as regards the provision of special ships to be made available to the member states affected by pollution and the chartering regime for them.
in short, we support the balanced approach proposed by the rapporteur, and we take the opportunity to congratulate him on his excellent contribution to improving safety at sea and preventing marine pollution.
it is true that this shipwreck and the human, environmental and economic tragedy it has caused in the affected areas, especially in galicia, have shown that more effective intervention and more coordinated action between the member states is needed, but the truth is that this cannot and should not serve to extend the scope of the agency's intervention to areas which are clearly the responsibility of each member state, which would lead to a duplication of costs or the discharge of responsibility from the countries, much less raise questions of sovereignty, which would create conflicts of competence.
the rapporteur argues that the work of the agency in combating pollution should be only technical and scientific support and not replace the member states in their responsibilities, intervening with additional means when requested to do so by the government concerned, always under whose authority the clean-up operations would be directed.
the objective of preventing and combating marine pollution accidents is the first and therefore the focus of everyone's attention.
i also stress the importance of systematic and rigorous evaluation of measures to prevent and combat marine pollution.
it is not just the prestige or the erika, it is the thousands of ships that pollute our waters every year in unacceptable environmental attacks which the member states have proved incapable of dealing with.
europeans need ambition, they need these problems to be addressed, they need the european maritime safety agency to tell them when this scandal of permanent marine pollution will end, when we will have different rules in maritime traffic.
- i am in favour of the extension of the tasks of a european maritime safety agency to include the fight against marine pollution.
the main task of the new body will be to provide technical and scientific assistance to the member states and the commission to help them apply correctly community legislation on maritime safety and the prevention of pollution from ships and to monitor the implementation of this legislation.
in the light of the recent disasters caused by marine pollution, the commission therefore proposes to extend the agency's powers so that it can address certain problems in maritime safety with appropriate means.
in particular, it is intended to give the agency additional tasks to support the commission's efforts to combat terrorist attacks against ships and port facilities, to train seafarers and to combat marine pollution, the latter of which is covered by a legal framework for cooperation on marine pollution and an eu civil protection regime to promote closer cooperation in emergency situations.
a european maritime safety agency should be given the powers and means to prevent and combat pollution from ships and other vessels.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) sustainable development of the transport sector requires an integrated approach that takes full advantage of the opportunities available.
the proposal is linked to the council decision authorising the member states to sign, ratify or accede to the 2003 protocol to the international convention on the establishment of an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage, 1992, in the interest of the european community.
the protocol on the supplementary fund of the international maritime organisation (imo) increases the financial resources available for compensation to victims of oil pollution.
member states should sign this protocol within a reasonable time and, as far as possible, before 30 june 2004. the decision was taken following the prestige accident in november 2002, when the council took a more forceful stance on the need for an additional compensation scheme and on 21 march 2003 called on member states 'to work towards an increase of the current ceiling for compensation to victims of pollution, including environmental damage, to eur 1 billion by the next imo-led diplomatic conference in may'.
on 16 may 2003, the imo adopted a new protocol to the existing conventions on liability for oil pollution.
- i thank mr josé maría gil-robles for his recommendation to establish an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage.
the purpose of the supplementary fund is to provide compensation to any person who has suffered damage as a result of oil pollution, where the claim in question is considered justified and the injured party has not been able to obtain full and adequate compensation under the 1992 fund convention.
- (pt) the the draft decision, on which parliament is to deliver its opinion, authorises member states to accede to the protocol on the international maritime organisation (imo) supplementary fund, which increases the financial resources available for compensation to victims of oil pollution.
the protocol to the 1992 international convention establishes an international fund for compensation for oil pollution damage to ensure adequate, prompt and effective compensation for victims of oil spills from tankers.
only then will we have more training, more education, more innovation and more research, which are essential conditions for sustainable development in the european union.
and that means changing this policy, changing this stability pact and talking about a sustainable growth and employment pact before we can respond to the economic and social problems of the union.
i would remind you that the eu has always attached importance to the implementation of community legislation, including in the field of the environment.
i believe that this measure could contribute to the development of the rural areas of the new member states and to the observance of community rules on the environment and human and animal health in these states.
- (pt) as i said in the explanations of vote on the recent reports by mrs pernille frahm on the conclusion of the stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants and the conclusion on behalf of the community of the protocol of 1998 to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution, i support all measures which effectively and actively promote a better environment.
the present proposal thus aims to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants (pops), chemicals which are persistent in the environment, accumulate in living organisms through the trophic network - the complex interaction of networks between food chains - and present risks of long-term adverse effects on humans and the environment.
for all these reasons, i share the commission's and the rapporteur's efforts and feel that i should highlight the important proposal to introduce a name and shame system, which involves the public disclosure by the commission and the member states of infringements of the provisions of this regulation, which will give greater certainty that the provisions are being complied with (through persuasion) and ensure more effective protection of human health and the environment.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the main task of the forthcoming spring summit will be to follow up the lisbon strategy to make the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world and the corresponding objectives of sustainable growth, full employment, reduced poverty and greater social cohesion.
instead, policies should be implemented that stimulate the economy and support purchasing power in the short and medium term, and that prioritise production and work in order to promote economic growth, employment and social cohesion on the basis of a sustainable increase in public investment, at national and european level, in particular in basic infrastructure, vocational training and upskilling, research and development, the environment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
- i regret that my proposal to ask the commission and the council to make the necessary adjustments to the economic and monetary policy guidelines without delay in order to replace the stability pact with a pact for social progress and employment in line with the objectives of full employment, sustainable economic development and economic and social cohesion has not been taken into account.
the situation in chechnya, the deteriorating conditions for democracy and the restrictions on freedom of information, and the deteriorating social climate are of particular concern.
a climate of political mistrust, democratic deficit, widespread poverty and increased corruption have created a more dangerous situation in all three countries.
for example, there is not a word about economic growth; there is not a word about migration; there is not a word about urbanization; there is not a word about the environment; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly; there is not a word about the elderly.
the new programme for the protection of forests, forest focus, adopted last year and running until 2006, includes measures to combat forest pollution.
the abolition of internal frontiers and the gradual liberalisation of trade have created a lax climate, leading to less investment in technical resources (such as reference laboratories and research centres) and human resources (such as vocational training).
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i voted in favour of the resolution, as i am naturally in favour of promoting new technical requirements and processes which actively contribute to the adoption of measures to limit emissions of polluting gases and particulate matter.
the proposal for a decision is therefore another important step towards promoting sustainable development, which the eu is championing.
as regards women with disabilities, it calls for the directive on a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation to be transposed into national law and for access to education, employment and vocational training to be ensured in the normal environment.
it is about economic growth, urban planning, the environment, employment, making fathers jointly responsible for women's sexual health and education in general, in addition to education specifically concentrated on sexual and reproductive health.
it is unacceptable that the social and environmental consequences are not taken into account, particularly in mountain regions and other lessfavoured areas, as in portugal, where alternatives to these olive oil, tobacco and cotton crops are scarce and where fruit, vegetable and wine production is experiencing serious difficulties.
a revaluation of production and labour is therefore required to promote economic development, employment and social cohesion, based on a sustained increase in national and community public investment, in particular in basic infrastructure, education, skills and vocational training, research and innovation, the environment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal is of particular importance in two respects, because it not only increases safety at sea but also helps to reduce pollution.
in addition, the new direct payments for energy crops and nuts introduced by the reforms of the cap will be covered by the same phasing-in schemes.
the report calls on romania to 'continue with increased energy its programme of structural reforms' and complete the privatisation programme in order to overcome what it describes as 'the delayed privatisation and restructuring of public enterprises'.
we welcome the measures designed to reduce infringements of eu rules and to promote the opening up of the energy, transport, telecommunications and postal markets.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) health systems across the eu face the same challenges: ensuring access for all, high quality and financial sustainability.
this will threaten the financial sustainability of health systems.
i particularly support the desire to propose measures to ensure the full implementation of the three objectives set by the european union in this area, namely access, quality and financial sustainability.
in this context, it is also essential that this amending budget be adopted at first reading, as has been the case in the past, especially in the context of the forest fires in portugal in the summer of 2003. the eu must show full and immediate solidarity with regions in member states or candidate countries affected by natural disasters and mitigate the serious consequences of these disasters for the livelihoods of the population, the environment and the economy.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) on 1 january 2004, directive 2003/96/ec restructuring the community provisions on the taxation of energy products and electricity entered into force.
however, we believe that there is more to it than that and we reject the directive for three reasons: firstly, harmonised energy taxation is not a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the internal market.
there are certain advantages to tax competition, but the main one is that this is a question of tax sovereignty with far-reaching implications for a state's social and environmental choices and tax structure.
thirdly, there is no need to shift the tax from labour to 'consumption' of the environment, where the price is always passed on to the consumer.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the proposed directive should be amended to take account of the new requirements of the directive on energy efficiency and the new requirements of the directive on energy efficiency.
although this report deals with a difficult subject - energy taxation - for environmental reasons in particular, and taxation still requires unanimity in the council, i voted in favour of the text.
- (pt) the i welcome this proposal for a directive, which is part of the action to promote a better working environment and aims to protect the safety and health of each worker and to introduce a minimum level of protection to prevent any distortion of competition.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the recipe is still the bet on so-called competitiveness, the promotion of what they consider to be the culture of enterprise, the flexibility and precariousness of work, the reduction of wage costs and wage moderation, the attack on public services, that is, the neoliberal agenda of the economic and financial groups, instead of concern ing themselves with living and working conditions, with sustainable development, greater economic and social cohesion, a relaunch of public and social investments, particularly in railways, health, the environment, education and research.
what is urgent is to review economic and monetary policies, to stop liberalizing, to review the stability pact in order to give priority to social criteria, employment, training, education and research, which are essential areas for the sustainable development of europe.
it is a process marked by pressure from big business - take for example the statements of the european employers' association unice - to avoid liability for direct damage to the environment, and the governments of some of the eu countries have defended these interests during the negotiations on this directive.
despite the fact that the result does not include all the proposals of the european parliament and in particular of my group - and without going into detail about the fundamental issues it raises and the concepts used, about its correct implementation and about all its consequences, in particular for small and mediumsized enterprises - this is a compromise that can help us to better combat damage to the environment, paying particular attention to damage caused by big capital.
as i have said, policies to protect the environment and natural resources are crucial to the future of all.
- as i said at first reading when we voted on this proposal for a directive (14 may 2003), it is extremely important that we adopt a global community system for preventing and remedying environmental damage, including water pollution, the deterioration of biodiversity and soil pollution, which pose a serious threat to human health.
after several years of debate and repeated environmental disasters, we have reached a crucial point in terms of effectively preventing and remedying environmental damage - in other words, a real watershed.
this common position improves the legal framework for environmental protection.
this principle, together with traceability, can allow rapid action to be taken to eliminate risks to human health, animal health and the environment.
it will enable us in future to identify better technical and technological solutions guaranteeing both human progress and the sustainability of this development.
according to experts in the field, this proposal for a regulation is crucial for the first phase of the european climate change programme and is intended to establish a regulatory framework to reduce the levels of hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulphur hexafluoride, which are potent greenhouse gases covered by the kyoto protocol.
fluorinated gases currently account for 2% of all greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
nevertheless, they have significant global warming potential because many of them have a long atmospheric lifetime (up to 15 years).
the proposal should make it possible to reduce emissions of fluorinated gases by 2010 and then to achieve even greater reductions.
various studies are being carried out in this area and they obviously need appropriate support from the eu, especially financial support, in order to meet the commitments made at the 2002 johannesburg summit: political coherence, sustainable management of natural resources and promotion of consumption patterns... (the minutes were suspended in accordance with rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
in writing.
in 1998, the eu and its 15 member states signed the so-called aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, whose main objective is to improve the public's ability to participate in environmental matters and to actively contribute to improving the conservation and protection of the environment.
signature of the aarhus convention requires the adoption of measures legally binding on the institutions and bodies of the union, and this provision does so specifically with regard to the three pillars of the convention, access to information, public participation in decision-making processes and access to justice and to judicial review in environmental matters.
only by establishing rules on such access will we be able to make an effective contribution to ensuring public control in an area which concerns everyone - genuine environmental citizenship, including access to justice in environmental matters at eu level.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this proposal follows two other initiatives - public access to environmental information and public participation in the preparation of certain environmental plans and programmes - which are intended to contribute to the implementation of the aarhus convention of the united nations economic commission for europe (ece) on access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters.
this is a final instrument which could help to strengthen the actions taken by societies to protect their living conditions and the environment in which they live.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this report should be seen in the context of the important package on the environment and more specifically on the incorporation of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in the field of the environment (three pillars) into eu law.
it also aims to address shortcomings in the monitoring of the implementation of environmental legislation.
the proposed directive sets out minimum requirements for access to civil and criminal proceedings in environmental matters and explicitly defines the criteria which can ensure better implementation of environmental legislation with the least possible impact.
as i said, particularly in my explanation of vote for the korhola report, there must be effective public control in an area which concerns us all, genuine citizen control in order to protect our environmental heritage.
- (pt) the following the commission communication, which addressed, inter alia, the treatment of mine waste in the light of the specific characteristics of mines and the considerable differences between the sub-sectors of the extractive industries, work has been undertaken to re-examine eu environmental policy in the light of recent mine accidents, such as those in baie mare in romania and aznacollar in spain.
i naturally support this proposal because it sets out some minimum requirements to improve the treatment of waste from the extractive industries including the environmental and human risks associated with waste treatment and disposal.
in addition, the kind of recycling of waste advocated by the proposal aims at conserving resources, thus reducing the pressure on the exploitation of natural resources.
the measures in the directive therefore seek to cover sectors which pose serious risks to the environment and health or which pose potential risks of serious accidents, taking particular account of the structural aspects of an environmental policy which, as the eu proposes, should be sustainable.
the purpose of the convention, which was adopted at the ministerial conference 'environment for europe' held in aarhus on 25 june 1998, is to facilitate access to information on the environment and to improve public participation in decisions which may have an impact on the environment, and we could add a 'third pillar', namely access to judicial review in the field of the environment.
the stockholm declaration on the human environment of 16 june 1972 stated that everyone has the right to live "in an environment of a quality which permits a life of dignity and comfort" .
the maastricht treaty commits the eu to mainstreaming environmental protection in all its policies.
this initiative is therefore in line with article 175 (4) of the ec treaty, which expressly states that member states are to ensure that environmental policy is implemented, and this is also another important step towards the desired sustainability of the eu's development.
we welcome steps to provide a greater understanding of environmental threats to human health, to identify diseases caused by environmental factors, and to plan policy responses to the challenges that arise.
this could be the effect of the cap on large farms, liberalisation policies that encourage the privatisation of essential public services, such as access to water, which focus only on profit (for the few), or the dilution of the kyoto targets by creating an emissions market that prioritises the interests of large companies.
the report also stresses the need to apply the precautionary principle in cases where research is not conclusive but where there is a potential serious or irreversible threat to health or the environment, particularly in the context of the debate on genetically modified organisms (gmos).
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the present strategy aims at reducing diseases caused by environmental factors.
in fact, a recent report on the subject by the european environment agency revealed that in large european cities, about 60,000 deaths a year can be related to long-term exposure to air pollution.
in line with the european strategy on environment and health proposed by the commission, the council adopted a number of conclusions to be implemented in the scale strategy.
between 2004 and 2010, scale will focus on the four main public health drivers - paediatric respiratory diseases, asthma, allergies, neurological disorders, paediatric cancers and hormonal disorders - and on the programme's three ultimate objectives, namely to reduce the number of diseases caused by environmental factors, to identify and prevent new health threats caused by environmental factors and to strengthen the eu's capacity to conduct policy in this area.
the commission therefore intends to set up an integrated european system for monitoring the environment and health and for taking action where necessary.
the european union must enforce the principle of free movement within its own territory and devote all its energy to upholding it and ensuring that it is respected throughout the world.
this convention is part of the objective of conservation and sustainable management of resources which the eu has pursued and seeks to promote.
this instrument is intended to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of highly migratory fish stocks in this area through the establishment of a fisheries commission, the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc).
we find acceptable the objectives of the amendments to the current protocol, agreed in may 2003, which include reductions in fishing effort and support measures to promote sustainable fishing.
- the commission has found it necessary, as a follow-up to the strategy for sustainable development in the community aquaculture sector presented in september 2002 in the context of the revision of the common fisheries policy, to amend regulation (ec) no 2792/1999 on community structural measures in the fisheries sector, which contains specific provisions on support measures for community aquaculture, in order to clarify the definition of aquaculture, increase community aid for extensive fish farming, develop methods to reduce the environmental impact, support applied research and ensure financial compensation for shellfish producers in the event of the cessation of harvesting.
systematic disposal and cessation of fishing activities should not be encouraged in order to replace catches with production which creates other problems in terms of the environment, food security and protection of coastal zones.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) once again, the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on a strategy for the sustainable development of community aquaculture in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy.
in theory, the objectives pursued by the commission are commendable: protection of the environment, creation of long-term employment (in fisheries-dependent areas or where there are no alternatives), consumer guarantees of access to safe aquaculture products and ensuring high standards of animal health and welfare, and promotion of research.
however, the commission will not grant this aid in the event of repeated pollution and thus introduces unjustified discrimination against producers.
- in 2003, the council adopted conclusions on a strategy for sustainable development of community aquaculture, the main objective of which is to create jobs and provide quality products from environmentally friendly production, in particular by re-directing public support from the fifg towards measures in the fields of training, monitoring, research into new species and promotion of environmentally friendly aquaculture technology.
- the strategy for the sustainable development of aquaculture emphasises aspects such as the protection of the environment, the creation of long-term employment, particularly in areas dependent on fisheries and where there are no alternatives, consumer guarantees of access to safe aquaculture products and the safeguarding of high standards of animal health and welfare, and the promotion of research, including by providing appropriate funding opportunities, for example, for the impact of aquaculture on the environment and on stock cultures.
i welcome the clarification of the meaning of certain definitions, the proposed increase in community aid for extensive fish farming and the reduction of community aid for intensive fish farming, aid for applied research, development of methods to reduce the environmental impact and aid for traditional aquaculture (e.g.
like the rapporteur, i believe that the commission's proposals are geared towards increased research and technological development and greater respect for the environment and sustainability in general.
it is just another building block in the development of a policy for sustainable fisheries.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the adoption of the regulation on the conservation and sustainable development of fisheries resources has broadened the objectives of the common fisheries policy and has therefore also brought new implementing provisions, which not only involve the development and introduction of effective monitoring tools, but also professional training and technical and administrative cooperation between all the sectors and institutions concerned.
the third is to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with the mediterranean third countries in order to involve them concretely in the efforts to ensure sustainable fisheries.
the sustainable management of fisheries resources, the social interests of the sector and the economic survival of coastal communities will depend to a large extent on the involvement of the various representatives of the sector in the formulation of the cfp.
we must stand firm on the cultural rights of the kurdish people and on the need to find 'a just, sustainable and functional solution to the cyprus problem, which is in line with the relevant un resolutions'.
in this context, and in solidarity with the turkish people, i am opposed to certain elements of the report, such as its acceptance of 'the primacy of european law over national law', the adoption of the so-called european constitution, the use of turkey as a nato member to increase the eu's influence in the region 'significantly', and the use of an 'either/or' in the negotiations, where the eu makes no concessions whatsoever in the implementation of its neoliberal policy, where one need only look at the opinion of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy.
it is also positive that it stresses the need for greater attention to the maintenance and condition of ships, even those with double hulls, which may pose a greater potential danger; the defence of agreements with the imo to carry out rapid and independent investigations into maritime accidents; the request to the coastal member states to create a clear and independent command and decision-making structure in the context of emergency situations; the request for a study on the imposition of compulsory insurance; the request for financial compensation for shelters; the demand for a system of sanctions to counter illegal waste; an audit of classification societies; the transposition by the member states of community directives and the ratification of international conventions; the training of seafarers; the dignification of the maritime professions.
the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the rapporteur of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy consider that the absence of reference to article 300 (3) of the ec treaty, which provides for the consultation of parliament, could only be due to an oversight which should be corrected.
it is therefore not just about access to credit and consumer protection, but about economic sustainability, where there is a huge risk that families may be affected by the dictates of monetary policy and the stimulation of artificial consumption.
they must therefore be reduced as much as possible, which is inseparable from the question of the agricultural practice - the agricultural model - used and the environmental risks associated with the use of pesticides, especially for soil and groundwater.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the reaction of the large private monopolies or the large countries when their interests are threatened is quite enlightening, also when it comes to the strategic energy sector.
the great powers and their economic groups want the energy market to be liberalized, provided they maintain control in their own countries and can come to control those of others.
in this context, parliament wants to introduce 'equal' rules for all, when the necessary and correct response is to deprive big capital and its profit-making logic of the strategic control of a country's energy sector and instead focus on a public energy sector and a public energy policy that ensures universal and equal access and a sustainable and balanced development of the country.
as has been pointed out here, it is important to ensure open and fair national markets and gradual reductions in gas prices (where there are huge differences between member states) and to solve the problems which have been encountered with the capacity of interconnectors and the lack of appropriate provisions for costs attributable to cross-border energy trade.
- (pt) the i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that the environmentally friendly design of energy-using products should be promoted, and i therefore also believe that parliament should support the commission's integrated product policy.
the environmental impact of a product should not be measured solely by its use or use, as its design throughout its life cycle can play a major role in the impacts it has.
i agree with the rapporteur that eco-design should therefore integrate the environment at the stage where the technical possibilities are greatest.
i also believe that there are clear benefits for manufacturers (and consumers) from using environmentally friendly design, such as knowledge of and optimal use of raw materials and energy, anticipation and compliance with environmental regulations, and meeting customer and user expectations.
the 'flexible mechanisms of the kyoto protocol' allow parties to meet part of their commitments because they can reduce greenhouse gases in other countries at lower costs than in their own countries.
these projects shall result in real, measurable and long-term benefits in terms of climate change mitigation, while being implemented in such a way as to contribute to the sustainable development of the host countries, in particular through the transfer of environmentally friendly technology.
on 18 march 2003, the council adopted a common position on a directive on a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading.
by stimulating demand for cdm credits, the present proposal also makes it possible to help developing countries implementing cdm projects to achieve their sustainable development goals.
at the same time, the fight against climate change is being pursued through the effective implementation of the kyoto protocol.
as i have said on other occasions, i think it is absolutely essential that all forms of waste treatment be used for recycling and/or recycling.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) this communication is the result of a consultation process with the various parties concerned, supplemented by ongoing studies, and forms part of a thematic strategy on waste recycling which the commission intends to adopt in september 2004. this strategy - which builds on the community waste management strategy of 1989 and 1996 - aims to promote sustainable waste management, taking account of the three pillars of the environment, the economy and the social sphere, and introduces new concepts and a qualitative and quantitative approach that will certainly help to find the best solutions.
i agree with the rapporteur that it is important to raise environmental awareness among citizens, businesses, retailers, etc., and i agree that this is the main point to be emphasized in the strategy, with particular emphasis on information campaigns and school projects.
i ask you, commissioner, how can the european commission say that it is committed to fighting poverty, to creating jobs, to building railways, to environmental, economic and social development, when it allows this to happen to a canadian multinational in a country with serious economic and social problems like portugal?
it should be recalled that the eu acceded to the revised 1958 agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe in 1997, whereby the council decision entered into force on 24 march 1998. it should also be noted that the draft regulation will clearly lead to greater environmental safety and protection.
although some aspects of the proposal under discussion deserve criticism, we must show our support for its attempts to find alternative modes of transport which are less harmful to the environment, such as rail transport.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) unlike the structural funds, which are usually far-reaching and very important, life is a source of funding for actions to protect nature and the environment.
such actions are designed to promote the dissemination of different practices, develop innovative actions and demonstrate how skills and experience can be used elsewhere, and they also help to enforce eu environmental policies and legislation.
i hope, however, that the conclusions of the article 8 group (habitats directive) will be accepted, in particular the conclusions that the current funding of natura 2000 through the life-nature instrument (47% of the total funding of the life programme) is clearly insufficient, that the application process is too bureaucratic and that the life-nature programme needs to be significantly strengthened and that in ... (the minutes were approved)
in the light of the recent events, the commission has decided to withdraw its proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the actions proposed in the report, and in particular those of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, are not, in my view, the best strategy to follow.
i would suggest instead that the eu, the european observatory and also the member states join forces, either together or individually, not in the form of tasks that waste resources but in the form of measures that clearly lead to prevention.
in the light of the above, the commission has decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound production of products.
the commission's strategy for an integrated product policy is to press for sustainable development, i.e.
as i have mentioned many times before, european industry and producers need to be made more aware of the importance of genuine sustainable economic growth and sustainable production systems, which involve recycling, waste treatment, water protection, etc., in order to live up to the growing awareness of the european public.
interoperable networks, multimodal interconnection, effective safety, environmental protection, and the participation and actual responsibility of member states as an essential part of a railway structure are the conditions for this to be possible.
but let us not be deceived by the questions: the economic environment in europe today is very different from that which was the scene at the lisbon summit in 2000. the economic and financial situation in some member states requires austerity policies, restraint in public finances and, above all, the need for structural reforms, which are a prerequisite for economic growth and job creation.
the member states which, in this climate of economic slowdown, have the courage not to give in to easygoing attitudes and to undertake the necessary reforms of labour legislation, social security systems and so on deserve more than reprimands, but also encouragement and incentives for their capacity to reform.
the question is increasingly political, that is, a question of choice, and if it is true that there can be long-term sustainable economic development only with financial consolidation, it is also true that there will be no financial consolidation, even in the short term, without economic growth.
i also believe that we must consider carefully what methods and measures can best solve the problems in this sector such as diseases, high bee mortality, poisoning from insecticides, climate change, marketing problems (especially in the countries and regions at the community's periphery) and unfair competition from low-quality, cheap products from third countries.
i am also pleased that the cohesion fund is maintained as a support mechanism for major projects in the fields of transport and the environment in member states whose gdp is less than 90% of the community average.
in the case of the european investment bank, the main task is to support, together with the european investment fund, capital investments which promote sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
it finances small businesses (45% of global loans), research, environmental protection and basic infrastructure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
we cannot accept that, in the context of so-called competitiveness, emphasis should be placed on the flexibility and precariousness of work, on reducing wage costs and wage moderation, on attacking public services, that is, on the neoliberal agenda of the economic and financial groups, instead of concern ing oneself with living and working conditions, sustainable development, greater economic, social and territorial cohesion, quality employment with rights, the relaunching of public and social investment, particularly in railways, health, the environment, education and research.
in his speech, he managed to address issues such as terrorism, environmental degradation, population ageing, regional and social asymmetries, the problem of persistent unemployment, the distance of populations from the european project, issues relating to the adoption of the constitutional treaty and the lisbon strategy.
the importance you placed on social, environmental and cultural issues yesterday or the recognition that, as prime minister, the important was never the urgent?
given the importance of preserving the forest heritage because of its environmental, economic, social and cultural importance and the scale of this scourge, not only is european solidarity and assistance indispensable, but serious investment, community investment in prevention, reforestation, research, coordination, particularly in the field of civil protection, and in the financing of means of combat, particularly airborne.
we know there are environmental causes, linked to climate change and global warming.
we are facing a real environmental, economic and human tragedy that has reached the proportions of a public calamity.
the conflict has caused a massive humanitarian crisis and has laid the economy waste.
a proper assessment of the sustainability of the fisheries agreements concluded by the european union with third countries is essential, as specific measures are becoming increasingly important for the proper implementation of community actions in the development of local populations, especially coastal communities that depend on traditional fishing.
these trade-based agreements can also contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to the development of local fishing communities.
i voted in favour of the report by mr philippe morillon on the proposal for a council regulation on the conclusion of the protocol setting out, for the period 1 january 2004 to 31 december 2006, the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the democratic republic of madagascar on fishing off madagascar, because i am in favour of responsible and sustainable fishing.
the development of the malagasy economy, respect for the environment and the sustainability of the fishing effort in madagascar's territorial waters are three aspects which cannot be ignored in this protocol.
in the meantime, the united states is establishing more military bases in that part of the greater middle east, while in palestine violence against the palestinians is on the rise, the price of oil is rising and the inconsistency of an economy conditioned by this energy source, a globalized economy transformed into finance and speculation, is becoming clear.
question no 4 by marie anne isler béguin (h-0219/04) subject: conditionality of ratification of the kyoto protocol in agreements between the eu and third countries the european union is involved, particularly through its echo programme, in ecological disasters on the five continents.
these environmental disasters of increasing proportions are the result of decades of ecological neglect which may, in the long run, exceed the capacity of community assistance.
why does the council not immediately address the causes of these global environmental shocks by making ratification of the kyoto protocol a precondition for all negotiations and agreements between the eu and third countries?
i support the environmental concerns of the drafters of the motion for a resolution.
i believe that the competent institutions of the union should promote the study of the environmental impact of civil aviation and examine how it can be reduced.
the hasty way in which the resolution is presented takes away objectivity from a matter which, because of its seriousness and importance in the life of the ordinary citizen, deserves careful scrutiny by the committees on transport and the environment, among others.
externally, i believe that the european union can play an important role in establishing stable means of cooperation with third countries, seeking to develop initiatives aimed at protecting endangered species and promoting biodiversity.
and finally, i firmly believe that we all have to show confidence in democracy and the sovereign will of the people, by turning away any sick climate of false drama, to the way of coercion the absurd propaganda of an 'end of europe' in the event of a setback distorts the debate, divides us on the essential points and seriously undermines the serious discussion on the construction of europe.
i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament and the european economic and social committee on 'developing countries, international trade and sustainable development: the role of the community's generalised system of preferences (gsp) for the decade 2006/2015' because i believe that all the efforts needed to simplify and improve community actions for developing countries should be duly supported and monitored by this parliament.
the community's trade policy must therefore be consistent with the objectives of its policy towards developing countries, aiming in particular at the eradication of poverty and the promotion of sustainable development and taking account of criteria such as respect for the environment, the improvement of social conditions, the fight against corruption and the promotion of good governance.
however, the central issue is much broader and structural, and results from the unresolved problem of the world economy's energy dependence on a finite resource and a source of speculation.
i voted in favour of the giuseppe gargani report (a6-0012/2004) - dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community.
i therefore support the aim of this proposal, which is to codify council directive 76/464/eec of 4 may 1976 on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environment of the community, replacing the previous legislative acts.
liberalisation and privatisation in key sectors such as energy, post, telecommunications, essential public services and the financial sector have advanced, as have more and more legislative proposals in areas which call into question fundamental human rights and workers' rights, notably the proposal for a directive aimed at creating an internal market in services, i.e.
it is not a question of favouring the economic side of the strategy to the detriment of its social or environmental side, or vice versa.
everything is connected: poverty, disease, illiteracy, school failure, infant and maternal mortality, urban and environmental degradation, social discrimination, lack of vocational qualifications, unemployment, moral promiscuity, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings.
i voted in favour of the report by mr salvador garriga polledo (a6-0021/2004) - draft general budget 2005 (section iii), with amendments, because i agree with the substance of the assessments and proposals presented, particularly when it states that 'the budget for 2005 should reflect the following political priorities and objectives: lisbon strategy: given the desire for the eu budget to become an effective instrument for economic growth, sustainable development and job creation; jai: the need for a european response to the new challenges of cooperation on immigration, asylum and migration and terrorism and security; information policy: the need to increase the budgetary effort in view of the low turnout in the last european elections, the successive enlargements of the eu and the european constitutional debate; cohesion policy: the 2005 budget should also continue to contribute to cohesion and to strengthening the union's external role.
it regrets that the main priorities are a mythified and mystifying lisbon strategy, terrorism and information policy, that the priorities are increasingly approaching the objectives of a so-called unratified 'european constitution' and an unapproved proposal for a political and financial framework, when the amounts to be made available through the community budget should enable the eu to achieve ratified and approved essential and strategic objectives, such as improving the living conditions of the population, promoting economic and social cohesion, sustainable development, employment and promoting external relations of cooperation with the least developed countries.
i support in this budget the laudable concern for institutional operability at the level of the various policies, although i believe that we are still far from the real ambition of sustainability, prosperity and integration in which citizens see themselves.
it is indeed necessary to amend that decision in order to allow for the payment of the third instalment of the additional macro-financial assistance to that country by extending its period of application, thereby strengthening its economic sustainability and the ongoing institutional reform.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
it is therefore urgent to set a new ceiling to allow its effective and fruitful application, so as to contribute to ensuring the sustainability of the balance of payments and the strengthening of the reserves of serbia and montenegro.
in a subject as delicate as spongiform encephalopathies, and because of the enormous impact that knowledge and dissemination of this disease has had in recent years on european public opinion, causing alarm and radical changes in the diet, this initiative by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is, of course, to be commended.
it is also the climate of legitimate and deep public distrust which makes it reasonable to impose the most stringent controls and the most stringent conditions for placing on the market the different feed solutions.
i am appalled by the climate of coercion and repression in belarus, where freedom and democracy are being threatened every day.
the commission should promote studies on the potential impact on the marine environment of the installation of active high-intensity marine sonar and provide an assessment - based on information from member states - of the effects of current practices on eu seas.
i share mr florenz's concern about the harmful effects of high-intensity sonar on the environment.
given that the preservation, protection and improvement of the environment, including the preservation of natural habitats and wild fauna and flora, are essential objectives of general interest for the community and that, alongside economic, social, cultural and regional requirements, environmental protection contributes to the overall objective of sustainable development, i believe that the commission should take action in this area.
the unanimous vote by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection was a clear indication of the desire to pursue all these objectives.
however, despite the european commission's commitment to present a report on the implementation of the directive by 30 june 2005, it is important to re-emphasise the importance of reuse and prevention in relation to packaging and packaging waste, giving them priority over recycling.
it is important to remember that prevention should be the first line to reduce the impact of packaging on the environment; reuse the second line and everything that cannot be reused should be recycled.
therefore, more incentives should be created to introduce new packaging reuse systems where existing ones do not represent an environmental benefit.
i voted in favour of the report by mrs dorette corbey (a6-0027/2004) - packaging and packaging waste on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste.
on 31 december 1994, directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste entered into force.
this proposal sets 31 december 2012 as the deadline for the 10 new member states to meet the recovery and recycling targets for packaging waste.
as i have said on many occasions, the recovery and recycling of packaging waste must be increased throughout the european union in order to reduce its environmental impact.
i found the proposal put forward by the rapporteur very relevant, in the sense that all member states should continue to be encouraged to impose packaging reuse systems in order to ensure a high level of environmental protection, while giving the new member states a period for better adaptation.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on climate change b6-0129/2004.
i believe that the kyoto protocol is a first attempt by the international community to combat climate change and that this does not mean that other measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that could be adopted at national level should be relegated to the background, but rather that they should be considered as complementary.
the problem of climate change and its effects on the planet is one that is increasingly being tackled in the context of globalisation and implies a different view of the world and of the development models in practice.
the known studies on climate change point to accelerated worsening of the effects of this phenomenon.
if the phenomena of climate change continue, they will have serious social, environmental, economic and public health consequences.
in addition to the understanding that the prevention of climate change undoubtedly requires the adoption of policies and measures by each state to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases, i would also like to stress the importance of the kyoto protocol, the first international instrument in the fight against climate change.
i believe that the eu delegation to the buenos aires conference should take a leading role in the negotiations, seeking to alert its international partners to the need to protect the climate and should also engage in a frank, open and sensible dialogue with the united states so that they reconsider their decision not to ratify.
the validity and relevance of the lisbon strategy and the design of a balanced strategy combining the economic, social and environmental dimensions are to be welcomed.
i must congratulate you because the hearings have shown that your intervention was agile and intelligent and that you were able to create the necessary climate for this indispensable partnership to take place.
given the strictly political reasons which led us in july to vote against the nomination of mr barroso as president of the commission; given the choices and the hearings of the elected representatives which led to the composition of the commission which will carry forward the political options against which we are and are fighting, we voted against the commission because, in the proposed composition, the political conditions which justified the vote in july have not been changed at all, but rather strengthened, and also for reasons which we made explicit in the declaration of vote on the joint resolution on this subject, and we reaffirm our support for and fight for other political options, which have social, regional and environmental values, always the objective of economic and social cohesion.
to continue to be a peace project, europe must grow economically, it must be able to create more jobs, it must be committed to sustainable development, it must show signs of greater social and territorial cohesion within its own borders and it must play a much more important role on the international scene and in the fight against terrorism.
the european union must be the europe of freedom, and freedom exists only in a healthy economic environment and with real and effective security.
it seems to me therefore essential to find together with the various institutional actors the measures that will help to accompany and further complement the reform of the cap and ensure coherence with the instruments and policies of the first pillar; as well as to contribute to other political priorities of the european union, such as the sustainable management of natural resources, innovation and competitiveness in rural areas, as well as economic and social cohesion.
the contribution of the committee of the regions to this process of revision of the cohesion fund is indispensable since this is the fund which will contribute financially to the implementation of projects in the fields of the environment and the trans-european networks in the field of transport infrastructure.
the effective promotion of rural development requires farmers, agricultural production and a model of sustainable human development based on the exploitation of specific economic, social and cultural characteristics and diversity.
the instruments in question (phare, ispa, sapard) could, during the period of validity of this financial perspective, contribute to structural improvement in the administrative, judicial, environmental, agricultural and transport sectors, preparing croatia for the adoption of the unified pre-accession instrument (ipa) which will be made available to it from 2007.
in writing.
in general, all of them emphasize the fundamental importance of these products in the supply of energy products to the community, since they are products from third countries, the reduction of which in supply could have serious effects on the economic activity of the european community.
in view of these aspects, this proposal seeks to facilitate the knowledge and understanding of the rules by european citizens and, more importantly, also seeks to create the necessary conditions to remedy any shortage of this indispensable energy source.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the environment (2008-2013).
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the report also calls for the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
we consider the commission's proposal for the next financial perspective to be clearly insufficient to respond to the current social, economic and environmental challenges, the needs for economic and social cohesion increased by enlargement, the high levels of unemployment and poverty found in the eu.
quantitatively, they propose an average real expenditure of 1.09% of community gni, lower than agenda 2000 (1.10%) and earlier benchmarks; the commission's proposals are based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
we welcome the amendments made to the current recommendation for second reading in relation to the proposal presented last april, as they largely correspond to our proposals, namely: priority for public health and the protection of vulnerable groups such as children and newborns; the setting of maximum residue levels in products taking into account different climatic conditions and best available agricultural practices; information to the public on the health risks; the assessment of risks to consumers; the publication on the internet of the results of national waste control measures; the extension of the scope of the proposal to imported products; the possible involvement of civil society organisations in the setting of maximum residue levels.
research expenditure is strategic for the eu in that it is an investment in its survival in a highly competitive international environment.
that would be the wrong way to go in my view, reducing the effectiveness of what we do and leading to a waste of resources, which are scarce, or to duplication of instruments.
the environment is priceless and our forests cannot continue to disappear.
i am happy to note that the rapporteur recommends that parliament approve these measures, as does the committee on the environment, public health and food safety in its opinion.
they show our determination to work for the integration of environmental concerns in the common fisheries policy, as envisaged in the reform of 2002, and as repeatedly called for by public opinion.
i have been asked three questions, starting from the need to protect the environment which was under attack and was in danger of being attacked more.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal, which has received the favourable opinion of the committee on fisheries of this parliament, is intended to prevent the use of a fishing gear which is highly damaging to very fragile marine systems such as deep-sea corals, which, in addition to their specific richness for biodiversity, are also important ecological niches for various organisms at various stages of their life.
at a time when there is growing concern about the maintenance of fisheries resources and when several recovery plans are being initiated in areas devastated by overfishing, the sustainable fishing that is practised in these archipelagos must be encouraged and supported and safeguarded by all of us.
because of their depth and risk of loss, they can cause ghost fishing and also erosion of the seabed, putting the ecological balance of deep-sea corals at risk.
i can assure you, in full knowledge of the facts, that by approving these proposals we are contributing to the protection of the environment and to that sustainable fishing which we want to see based more on precaution than on recovery.
we need only read the documents produced by the european commission which are absolutely conclusive in stating that bottom trawling is extraordinarily harmful and predatory on the environment for us not to understand how the european commission wants to impose this practice in the autonomous region of the azores where it was never allowed.
ensuring the sustainability of marine biological resources is also the best way to protect the most threatened of all species in some areas of the union, namely man himself.
consistent, because we already rejected the 2000 budget at the beginning of the current financial framework, and five years later our criticisms are confirmed: insufficient resources for economic and social cohesion; under-financing and lack of adequate programmes in the fields of employment, social affairs, the environment and cooperation; problems of implementation and lack of transparency; above all, a budget subject to the dictates of the stability pact, and "savings" to finance enlargements with the same financial resources and other priorities such as war and propaganda.
i note some positive progress, particularly in maritime safety (especially pollution) and the maintenance of the framework for structural and external policies, in particular development aid, also taking into account the special relations with the acp countries.
natural disasters such as floods, heat waves, forest fires, earthquakes, ecological disasters caused by toxic waste, toxic industrial accidents, serious industrial accidents and terrorist attacks are highly unpredictable and, for this reason, cause numerous victims and considerable economic damage.
this programme aims to strengthen the protection of citizens, the environment and property in the event of natural or technological disasters throughout the community by providing additional assistance from the other participating countries when national response capacity is insufficient.
the proposal is to prohibit the use of trawls in the waters of the azores and madeira (and also the canary islands) in order to protect deep-sea coral reefs, which are of great importance for the conservation of biodiversity.
the proposal for a regulation provides for a ban on the use of bottom trawls in the most sensitive environmental zones within the first 200 nautical miles of the azores, madeira and the canary islands.
- the 'promotion of increased competitiveness' as their 'top priority' - or, more precisely, of capitalist competition - their support for the 'lisbon strategy' - following the example of the big employers in europe - 'the improvement of labour markets' - the cynical name for the attack on workers' rights - 'the reform of pension schemes' - that is, their progressive privatisation - 'the completion of the single market' - or rather, the liberalisation of energy, transport and telecommunications - among many other examples... a 'good' package wrapped in language with social concerns and good intentions, which seeks to hide the contradictions and the true essence of right-wing politics actually carried out at eu level, as well as its very serious consequences.
the spirit of the advocates of this policy is so great that they do not hesitate to put forward proposals in a clear attempt to settle accounts with the history of the peoples' struggle, and thus for the thousandth time there is the fraudulent adulation of the 'market economy', of 'structural reforms' in the framework of 'competition' and 'market forces', of 'bringing the privatisation process to a successful conclusion' and of 'dismantling unviable enterprises' and of 'creating an environment favourable to foreign enterprises and investment'.