it would be good to soften the climate and make the contradictions a little less violent.
but in the political climate we have today and will have in the coming years, i fear that such a framework directive would be strongly dominated by market forces and right-wing forces.
in the case of amendment no 22, we believe that it is of the utmost importance to take action against environmental crime at sea.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) thousands of deliberate discharges of waste and cargo residues, including chemicals and oil, take place every year.
the need for common legislation in this environmental field is therefore indisputable.
i also voted in favour of amendment no 30 by the green group, which seeks to remove obstacles to fairer competition between nuclear and other energy sources on the energy market.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
it will benefit a wide variety of services, including professional services, business services, security services, environmental services, distribution services, travel agencies, hotels, restaurants and entertainment, as well as health services.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0455/2003) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on detergents (10595/3/2003 - c5-0521/2003 - 2002/0216 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr nobilia).
in the marine environment, for example, they create major environmental problems.
it is an important report for the environment but also a major and important consumer issue, because detergents make up a large part of what we use every day.
in the light of the un millennium development goals and the g8 summit in evian on sustainable development, i would like to say to mr poul nielson that no area should be spared in terms of providing for people affected by malaria, tuberculosis and hiv/aids and in terms of prevention.
however, as regards the environment, which is my area of expertise, i think the presidency's programme is a little thin and not sufficiently concrete.
the importance of pushing the climate negotiations forward is mentioned in the report itself, but this is a huge task for the eu in the next six months, when the kyoto protocol threatens to collapse.
other major issues are the cartagena protocol and the kuala lumpur biodiversity conference, where important decisions will be taken on trade in genetically engineered products.
undeclared, work should be converted into regular work in the services sector in order to improve the general business climate and tax morale and create a level playing field.
i believe that the psychosocial working environment, the spiritual environment, indeed the spirit of the workplace, are fundamental values which are profoundly underestimated in the perhaps too soulless societies into which our european welfare states are developing.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it was these issues and the possibility of including social and environmental considerations that forced the settlement.
the directive prevents the arbitrary or unbalanced consideration of social and environmental aspects, but such considerations can nevertheless be taken into account.
the commission's original proposal was, from a green point of view, totally unacceptable in terms of environmental and social criteria for public procurement.
however, i was very optimistic about the procurement directives after a majority in the european parliament, both at first and second reading, strongly supported the proposal to give contracting authorities greater freedom and legal rights to take account of and incorporate environmental and social criteria in public procurement.
unfortunately, i felt from the very beginning that the commission did not really want to acknowledge the fact that it is clear from articles 2 and 6 of the treaty, as well as from the sixth environmental action programme and other policy documents, that environmental and social considerations must be integrated into all eu policies and that public procurement must be used to achieve the goal of sustainable development.
the result of the compromise is clearly better than the commission's original proposal and the old rules, but unfortunately i think we have missed a unique opportunity to be as progressive as the promises and the talk of sustainable development would require.
however, i believe that the conciliation process failed to resolve the important question of whether public procurement worth 14% of gdp could really be a difference in eu environmental policy and promote 'green' procurement.
the so-called environmental characteristics criteria are among the criteria which, according to the agreed text, may be set by the contracting entity.
the period from the production of the good to waste, nor the long-term effects or internationalisation of the external costs.
what is meant by environmental criteria?
i think we have missed a brilliant opportunity to promote sustainable development and an improved quality of life for this and future generations.
despite this criticism, i naturally hope that the legislative package will promote open and free procurement and also ultimately promote environmental and social considerations in this context.
environmental issues are central.
if we want to reduce pollution in food and the external environment, we must favour producers who are willing to do so.
(sv) i would like to thank the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for their work on the report, which is very important and which is very important for the future of the european union.
i fully share the view that people need clean water, functioning sanitation, basic health care, basic education and access to energy.
it is now of the utmost urgency to introduce rural development and environmental aid as far as possible.
in the case of public services, such as water and energy supply, education and health, the public sector has failed in the majority of these countries.
how does the commissioner see the increase in drug use and drug abuse in the union, in the light of the fact that by 2010 the eu will have the strongest economy in the world, with the highest growth and with an ecologically sustainable economy?
such applications require installations both in cars and in the environment.
my own view is that a long-term growth policy would be needed, with emphasis on infrastructure, the environment, technological development, the development of human capital and things that many speakers have mentioned.
i think it is a very unfortunate trend on the part of the commission to treat environmental issues more and more as internal market issues.
from an ecological point of view, this is completely irresponsible.
we hope that the commission will take this into account and stick to the legal basis for achieving environmental objectives when it comes to proposals on the environment that this is really about.
this means going further, and in some cases much further, than both the stockholm convention and the 1979 protocol on long-range transboundary air pollution.
i am often very surprised that it is so difficult for the commission, for the council and perhaps sometimes even for the more conservative part of parliament to get things through which are intended to protect human health and the environment and that it is repeatedly delayed, delayed and stopped.
the legal basis must be article 175 of the ec treaty, since these decisions are taken to protect human health and the environment.
this has also been discussed from chester onwards that it is because we cannot protect human health and the environment that we must make good decisions in terms of a comprehensive overall view of chemical legislation.
this implies discussing frankly russian practices that run counter to european values, such as human rights in chechnya, media freedom and cooperation on the environment.
it also matters to importers of energy, given russia's position as a major supplier of oil and gas.
and not least, it matters because, if we are to tackle cross-border problems such as environmental pollution, illegal migration and organised crime, russia will have to shoulder more of the burden than it has previously.
russia has huge environmental problems.
it is largely a legacy of the communist era, when the environment was a very low priority.
the greatest risk of an environmental disaster that could also affect the eu area is the obsolete, oldest nuclear power plants of the so-called chernobyl type.
the environmental needs are enormous and we regret that russia does not want to ratify the kyoto protocol.
we all feel that democracy in russia has not taken root and that a climate of fear has been created where people who express political views independent of president putin are threatened.
at the request of the european parliament, a special representative was finally appointed in 2003. some other eu initiatives have also been undertaken, not least the regional environmental centre in tbilisi.
it is also about helping the south caucasus to get out of the nuclear trap, developing renewable energy and ensuring that oil resources are managed in accordance with international environmental rules.
i have tried to write a balanced report which does not take sides, but only takes the side of peace and sustainable development.
it would be a waste if all well-educated women were never able to practice their skills.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in fifty days europe will be a united continent and almost half a billion people will come together to defend european values and to solve common problems: environmental pollution, crossborder crime, not least the trafficking of human beings that everyone has mentioned, and the work for a better and fairer world.
firstly, we must ensure that we have a good living environment and secondly that we have employment, not least for our young people in the future.
to achieve a good environment, jobs and growth, we must use transport routes, communications.
in this way we can create both growth and a good environment.
the project would facilitate trade with russia and improve the environment in the eu.
in particular, we welcome the fact that it makes it so clear that health care should be provided close to the patients in their local environment, because family relationships, colleagues and other relatives mean so much to the quality of care and rehabilitation.
a big thank you to the two rapporteurs, mrs villiers and mr skinner, for their outstanding work and for their energy and tenacity in the negotiations with the council.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment.
air pollution and climate change have also been addressed.
of course, a person with respiratory problems or allergies is very much affected by bad air or air pollution.
the causes of the prevalence of childhood allergies in modern times may also be sought in contexts other than mere environmental factors.
by signing the aarhus convention, the community has shown its willingness to improve environmental legislation and also to involve the public in environmental decision-making in a completely new way.
it is time for the public and ngos to have access to justice in environmental matters and, of course, to information and participation in the decision-making process, as discussed in the korholab report.
this will be of great importance in making environmental policy much more effective in the eu.
environmental rules will be better administered and enforced, implementation will be faster and environmental management will be better managed.
indeed, there are studies showing that environmental legislation has become much stricter in countries where there has been the possibility of bringing environmental cases and testing the application of environmental legislation.
the aim of agenda 21, which is also the guiding principle of the commission, is to make the environment the property of the individual, not the public authorities.
for the first time, environmental legislation is being linked to human rights, and i think that is a good development.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection voted in favour of the directive as a minimum framework, allowing member states to go further and have more extensive access to justice.
an environmental issue must apply both to the administration of the authorities and to criminal law, because the aarhus convention does not distinguish between civil and criminal proceedings, and i do not really understand why the commission would want to make that distinction here.
i think this is completely wrong, because environmental issues look very different today.
a small local environmental organisation, for example, might need expert help from an international organisation, so i think this is restrictive.
i think that it is enough to be an independent, non-profit-making legal person to be able to bring an action for the protection of the environment and health.
it is also very important that the definition of environmental legislation should cover all policy areas and not just article 175, to which this proposal refers.
all environmental legislation relating to article 95 should of course also be eligible.
i therefore hope that the members will vote in favour of the proposals i have examined, so that we can achieve good legislation which does not create new obstacles but, on the contrary, does what we want to do, namely improve environmental legislation in the eu.
in practice, it strengthens the capacity of citizens to have both visibility and effective influence on decisions on environmental issues that directly affect them.
i should like to begin by commenting on the part of the implementation which concerns the schörling report on judicial review in environmental matters.
the committee makes this clear in amendments nos 4 and 5. the point is that the report is concerned with the environment.
first, it should be extended to all decisions having an impact on the environment, not just those taken on the basis of article 175 of the treaty.
secondly, it is important not to specify in detail how the concept of environmental organisation is to be defined.
it is also good that we should have had a harmonised system of liability to prevent environmental damage and to ensure that damage that has already occurred is remedied.
the triggering factors were the two major environmental disasters in spain and romania, which the commissioner also mentioned.
at the same time, we can say that there is a stealthy environmental disaster in progress, which consists of old mining waste, of which we often know very little, leaking into nature, especially heavy metals.
overall, this is perhaps a much bigger environmental problem than the mining that is currently taking place.
at the same time, eu legislation in this area has not worked well, because the existing waste directives, which today partly concern mining waste, are not working and are not adapted to this type of industrial production.
i would also like to see more improvements from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs and as rapporteur.
firstly, it is important that this covers all relevant types of waste.
we have therefore chosen to remove some exemptions, for example for waste from exploration.
i also think it is important that it covers waste that is shipped away from the nearest place of production.
i would also like to mention the inert non-hazardous waste.
it is important to recognize that even waste that is not hazardous in itself and in chemical terms can cause major environmental problems.
it is important that this waste also be covered by rules requiring its recovery and proper management.
here i think that the decision taken by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer affairs does not go far enough, and i have therefore tabled amendment no 98 which would correct this as i see it.
one of the most important points in this report concerns historical waste, which is perhaps the greatest environmental problem of all.
it is not enough to simply take stock, you must also make sure that you actually do something about it, otherwise you are only halfway to doing something about the environmental problems.
it will be an opportunity, not least for the new member states, to tackle these rather significant environmental problems.
on the whole, i think that the proposal from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection is a significant reinforcement of the commission's work, but it is also fully in line with its work.
i hope that through these proposals we can tackle the basic problems i mentioned at the beginning: avoiding the big dams, not including the environmental toxins that are leaking into nature today and getting legislation in this area that actually works and is comprehensive.
we moderates voted against the above report because we do not believe that local environmental issues - in this case, for example, indoor air quality and passive smoking - belong at eu level.
i agree with both minister roche and commissioner vitorino that the energy and mining industries are of great importance to the economies of many poor countries.
we also know that this type of industrial activity is often carried out in ways which have not directly benefited the poor majority, which have often led to serious damage to the environment and which have also unfortunately led to the fact that the proceeds from the concessions granted have mainly ended up in the pockets of individual ministers and not in the treasury, where they could have contributed to the development of the countries.
it shows the opportunities for these industries, but also the risks of not being surrounded by social, environmental and human rights criteria.
the consequences are often increased poverty and environmental destruction.
he gave a large number of examples of the difficulties faced by the local population in different project areas: forced displacement, environmental damage, etc.
we need much stricter criteria for their activities, especially with reference to social, environmental and climate contexts.
between 1994 and 2000, the export credit boards in our oecd countries guaranteed investments in new energy production worth about $100 billion.
not a cent went to energy efficiency or renewable energy.
without elevating this report and this study to the level of absolute truth, they are nevertheless a good basis for driving and sharpening policy in relation to both poverty issues and sustainable development.
we are not in favour of a european union policy on the environment.
madam president, firstly – and you have heard me say this before – we will have to live with the issue of climate change for a very long time – maybe for generations.
we should not wait for russia – that is true – but the 120 countries that have ratified are not waiting; they are actually carrying out actions on the issue of climate change already.
this will be another effective instrument within our climate change policy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0265/2004) by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on batteries and accumulators and used batteries and accumulators.
it has assessed the sustainability of different policy options, including a substance ban.
they would not be covered by the ban and would still risk ending up in the environment.
for cadmium batteries, the substitutes have a shorter lifespan and are more expensive, so that would create more waste and extra costs for consumers.
that should ensure that batteries no longer end up in the waste stream but are collected and recycled instead.
i suppose that this will be debated from now on, but we all seem to agree that it is important to monitor what is going on and find the best solution to make sure that these hazardous substances and batteries do not end up in the waste stream.
- the next item is the report (a5-0261/2004) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on integrated product policy - life cycle environmental impacts.
environmental policy has so far been relatively successful in dealing with point emissions from factories, power stations, etc.
the situation is different for non-point emissions, i.e.
the problem we face is that the accumulated pollution in society, not least through our consumption habits, is constantly increasing.
the european environment agency has recently shown that the volume of waste in the 15 member states has increased by 15% since 1990. so even though we've reduced pollution and used energy and materials more efficiently, the gains are being eaten up quickly by increased growth.
with global gdp expected to triple or quadruple in the next 30 to 40 years, we must do something radical if we are not to be literally drowned in an ever-growing mountain of garbage and pollution.
these are characterised by a linear flow of waste and wear approach in favour of resource efficiency, waste minimisation, controlled use of hazardous substances and a strengthening of the natural resource base.
in general, environmental policy, and energy policy too, must be much more coherent and consistent.
however, as environmental costs are rarely factored into prices, the market is not functioning satisfactorily.
that is good, but it is naive to think that better labelling and better environmental information will solve this problem.
secondly, a deeper understanding of how nature and the ecosystem work in order to adapt the product and business models of companies to biological principles.
thirdly, the optimisation of the product design itself by choosing materials with the least possible environmental impact.
finally, the information revolution should be exploited to the fullest to promote greater efficiency in the use of energy, materials and dematerialisation.
i am convinced that this is necessary and i hope that the commission, under the leadership of mrs wallström, will reflect on this and realise that it is important in the long term to create a horizontal policy framework which will help in the overall environmental work.
firstly, to carry out a couple of pilot projects which bring together different actors to discuss and, ideally, also implement measures to reduce the environmental impact of these particular products.
secondly, we are in the process of drawing up a european list of products with the greatest potential for environmental improvement.
i would also like to describe my view of the link between the integrated product policy and the other initiatives mentioned in the report, in particular the two thematic strategies: the strategy for the sustainable use of natural resources and the strategy for waste prevention and recycling.
i believe that the natural resources strategy should address the general problems of how to break the link between economic growth and environmental impact.
the strategy should set out what is to be done to achieve this decoupling and set general objectives on how to protect natural resources against overexploitation and pollution.
integrated product policy then aims to transform these resource-oriented objectives - remember that natural resources provide us with minerals, food, clean air and water - into concrete actions to reduce the environmental impact of products and services while creating business opportunities.
i also believe that the strategy on waste and recycling should be more clearly focused on the environmental and market problems that arise in that part of the life cycle.
on the contrary, the measures taken here must take account of the environmental impact throughout the life cycle of the product, through the application of an integrated product policy.
it is also very important because it can help us to cope with environmental problems, congestion and noise.
developing rail infrastructure is necessary to reduce congestion on our motorways and enable us to meet environmental requirements.
- (sv) we support the compromise result in the second railway package, firstly because it will make international rail freight transport faster and easier, for the benefit of the environment and for the transfer of goods from the road to the railway, and secondly because it does not lead to a deregulation of rail passenger traffic.
we have the environmental threat of the greenhouse effect, the fight against organised crime and terrorism and the terrible trafficking of women and children.
the goal must be a secure future, dignity, work, health and a good environment to be handed down to the next generation.
economic and social policy in the eu is important and the european model is based on a balance between growth, trade union rights, good labour market conditions and sustainable development.
equally important is the influence of trade unions on the development of the individual workplace in the form of a better working environment.
it is equally important that we make development sustainable in the long term.
when we invest, we should do so in new, clean technologies which also create sustainable development and make growth long-term and not just short-term.
secondly, citizens increasingly feel that eu resources are being wasted in waste and corruption.
the solution to the conflict will thus be more legitimate and more sustainable.
over-exploitation of fishing waters drives people into ever greater poverty and deprives the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain.
to do so, trade must respect the environment, human rights and social cohesion.
social and environmental clauses must be developed and we should support countries to develop eco-labelling so that they can be better paid for their products.
with the high price of oil and the great environmental problems, it is quite obvious that what we need most today are cars that run on something other than petrol, such as ethanol.
the committee hearing showed that the nominee, stavros dimas, lacked both the necessary knowledge and the vision for the future of environmental policy.
similar problems exist in the energy sector.
poverty is not solved by money, but by a commitment to human rights and sustainable development.
as we now move towards the lisbon process, i would like to know what the commission is doing to ensure women's rights, to achieve sustainable economic development and to enable women to enjoy the rights they have been granted.
(2) environmental policy should be better integrated into other policies.
(5) the last but not least, enlargement and new foreign policy initiatives such as afghanistan and iraq, as well as work on global environmental issues, the hiv epidemic, etc., must not mean that the eu's budgetary ceiling is being reduced.
we have voted against the resolution as a whole because we are critical of amendment no 1 and we question whether the commission is the right body to carry out a study on the impact of high-intensity marine pollution on the marine environment.
now that the kyoto protocol can enter into force, it is important to look ahead to what we can do after 2012 with climate action.
it is also important that we have a discussion with the major developing countries, such as india and china, that they too must accept binding commitments to reduce their emissions in the future, emissions which are increasing very rapidly today.
to make that possible, i think it's important to speak in terms of a fair environmental space in the long term, and that the only reasonable long-term allocation of the right to emit is that per capita.
the us presidential election is of course a serious setback for international environmental work and the us is likely to continue to act as a global anarchist in the environmental field for the next four years.
we have no time to wait for the americans, but we know that the day will come when they will be forced to join this work for both economic and ecological reasons.
i'd like to take my last few seconds to thank you, margot, for the work you've done in these five years on environmental issues.
it is not easy being an environment commissioner in the eu.
we are already seeing the effects today: glaciers are disappearing, the arctic is melting, we're getting shorter winters, more storms, more natural disasters and environmental refugees.
this particular sentence makes a huge demand on us to take drastic action and reduce our emissions.
when we discuss climate today, we can have a five-year perspective for the next election and avoid making difficult decisions, but the eu - parliament, commission and council - must collectively look beyond the re-election horizon and dare to make decisions that radically reduce emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the moderate delegation in the european parliament voted today in favour of the resolution on climate change.
we regret, however, that the resolution does not seriously address the question of how we are to manage our future energy supply.
the resolution should emphasise that the early phase-out of safe nuclear power by several member states is undeniably leading to increased carbon dioxide emissions.
instead, these countries should be encouraged to continue using nuclear energy, an efficient energy source that does not adversely affect climate change.
global climate change is a problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level.
we are, however, questioning the need for a common approach to the eu's response to the climate change conference to be held in buenos aires.
we also oppose the idea that the commission and the member states should emphasize the need for climate protection in the context of dialogues with other countries.
the european parliament is using an important global environmental conference to extend the supranational dimension of eu cooperation.
dimas is a trustworthy man, but he seems more interested in corporate politics than the environment.
if there is viagra to increase the appetite for environmental issues, i hope you have a stockpile ready for him so that the commission does not have an impotent environmental policy.
your new commission has a great responsibility for european economic development and for its respect for the environment, and it also has a great social responsibility.
i hope that the new commission will find the strength and courage to develop new ways of working and thinking about this issue of the utmost importance to europe, sustainable economic growth.
it is also regrettable that the commission's proposal was based on the old report of the committee on the environment.
– mr president, the alde group supports the lisbon process as the best way of achieving a competitive european economy and it maintains that sustainable economic development has to be a guiding principle in all future regulatory initiatives.
technical development with regard to environmental concerns is necessary, and this does not take place in europe today – at least not in the way it could and should.
the alde group firmly believes that a robust and dynamic economic environment in the european union can only come about if the new commission commits itself to reviewing the stability and growth pact so that it provides a strong bulwark against fiscal irresponsibility, while maintaining the necessary flexibility to ensure that europe maximises its growth potential without endangering price stability.
the alde group is fully prepared to cooperate with the commission along this very stony path that we have to walk together, but this must be based on sustainable development.
it's not just a cost in money, but also a cost to the environment, which i think is hugely important.
here we have included both integrated control and climate variation to give a more equitable proposal.
despite very long transitional periods for important environmental legislation, other legislation has not been implemented.
last year we sent a delegation from the environment committee to the ministry of the environment in bucharest.
we were confirmed in our view that it is urgent to increase the pace of environmental reform.
it's a project that has enormous environmental impacts.
the question is whether current eu legislation, such as the provisions on environmental impact assessment and the water directive, will be complied with.
the question is also whether it will be able to comply with the new directive on mining waste and its environmental impact.
i would urge the commission to look very closely at the rosia montana project to see if it really does manage to meet the eu environmental standards, which i think are minimum standards and something that the local population in the area is also demanding.
bringing poor countries like romania into an eu that continues to be dragged down by unreasonable agricultural policies and poorly managed structural policies and which itself is struggling to prevent waste and corruption in its own system is dangerous for the future of the european project.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
i will be presenting the opinion of the committee on the environment on behalf of mr satu hassis.
the committee on the environment has tried to express this vote in the form of amendments.
i would therefore like to stress that the house should support amendment no 8, which was adopted by the committee on the environment but unfortunately rejected by the committee on fisheries.
over-exploitation of fishing waters drives people into ever greater poverty and deprives the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain.