it contributes to 15% of the community's co2 emissions and, above all, it is growing very fast.
it's true: if you're more innovative, you'll have less carbon emissions, and then you'll also use less fuel.
it's like nuclear power plants, which are sold as being so eco-friendly, just because they reduce the carbon footprint.
the eu should not spend billions on this immature technology with its unpredictable consequences for the environment and for people!
i am firmly convinced that globalisation can only work if democratically elected policies create a social and sustainable regulatory framework for the world's 77,000 or so transnational companies.
what we also do not need is the mandatory regulation of energy-saving light bulbs, supposedly energy-saving taps, vacuum cleaners, etc.
− employee financial participation is a very useful way for some companies to improve the stability and sustainability of the business.
− eu regional policy, cohesion policy and programmes are not only the expression of the eu’s solidarity with less developed countries and regions, but also an investment policy and tool, an eu financing instrument that will help to meet the new europe 2020 goals, such as to boost small and medium-sized businesses, develop and improve education and professional training, support research and innovation, invest in environment strategies, support energy efficiency and tackle climate change, invest in better infrastructure, and improve access to digital technology.
new strategies and measures, and all experiences from the past should be a good start in creating new jobs, generating economic growth, tackling climate change and energy dependence, and especially reducing youth unemployment poverty and social exclusion.
the rapporteur notes that the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and that it is a very important one.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
as social democrats we are pleased that social, labour and environmental criteria are being applied to public contracts and concessions.
turning now to the labelling issue, which lies behind some of the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, let me stress that consumers would be informed of the presence of gm material in honey in exactly the same way as for any other food product.
we need to have a european policy on the environment.
let us see what we can do in europe for energy production, for the extraction of raw materials!
this contributes to the sustainability of european industry and the 'industrial renaissance' referred to in the report.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
therefore, meaningful cooperation with other important nations in the eu's wider and closer regional and geopolitical environment remains of long-term importance for both substantive and geopolitical reasons.
nevertheless, there is still a great deal of need for action, as human rights violations are still being committed in some countries, nuclear disarmament needs to be pushed forward and environmental protection and public safety should also be addressed more.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
finally, binding criteria for enterprises were established: companies that receive a concession must comply with social, labour and environmental regulations.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the strategic use of public expenditure is an important means of achieving social and environmental objectives.
i voted in favour of the report because the socialist group was able to enforce mandatory social, labour and environmental criteria in the award of public contracts.
the aim is to ensure sustainable growth and employment in the future, so that the union emerges strong from the crisis.
− the best way to ensure effective and socially sustainable public procurement is through approaches.
i therefore supported the proposal of the committee on the environment, which is committed to the interests of beekeepers and consumers.
the crisis in the union and the fear of further repressive demands on the kosovo issue, and the continued strong economic links with russia in the energy, steel and other sectors, have limited serbian enthusiasm for eu membership.
furthermore, adequate, affordable and sustainable housing should be provided for all people living on the streets.
− in addition to the three existing energy and climate goals of more energy efficiency, more renewable energy and less co2 emissions, industry must also be developed, because no one benefits from an industry-blind climate policy.
in recent years we have seen that a european country has fared better in the crisis the more industry it has, because only efficient production leads to sustainable and lasting growth.
i support the goal of a more sustainable, efficient and innovative industry.
the key to this initiative is the revival of european industry, with the aim of achieving a sustainable and economically stable europe.
the report also stresses the need for energy and resource efficiency to be the basis for industrial restructuring.
the european parliament has thus presented a sustainable growth strategy based on the modern use of resources, secure jobs with adequate remuneration and low-carbon, environmentally friendly production.
europe must remain competitive and at the same time be sustainable in order to prevent further crises.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community.
the use of genetic engineering in agriculture is highly controversial, due to the potential risks to human health and its negative effects on the environment, for example in relation to bee mortality.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- the report on the notification of energy infrastructure investment projects in relation to the euratom regulation points out the importance of accurate and regular information to the commission on energy infrastructure investment projects in the eu, so that it is able to fulfil its tasks in the energy sector.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- i voted in favour of the ‘smart grids’ report, as i think europe has to promote energy sustainability and renewables.
in my opinion we have to look into the future and follow the development of our technology in all areas that influence our lives, and energy is one of them.
we need to progress and support smart energy systems because, in my view, they will bring long-term, significant benefits to the european regions.
smart energy systems will help our citizens to make savings, as they offer secure and affordable energy production and supply.
in terms of economic, social and environmental advantages, it has been shown by european commission statistics that, with the targets set within the 2020 energy programmes and strategy, around 2.8 million jobs will be created in this sector across europe.
the necessary structures and the environment that form the basis of economic activity are thus lost.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the member states with the information they need to enable them to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment.
the question is how to help this sector in the face of rising energy, wage and unit costs and increasing competition from outside europe.
moreover, steel is produced in europe with the highest and best technological, labour and environmental standards in the world.
the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe proposed by the european commission is therefore an important step towards tackling the crisis.
the environment is also to be better protected by reducing emissions.
for these reasons, it is of great importance to ensure a sustainable steel industry.
we must not forget that social and environmental issues must also be included and integrated into trade protection!
i would like to ask you, mrs ford, how you see the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, of energy-intensive industry.
it is, of course, an essential part of the value chain that europe's energy-intensive industry has a chance, and that the most sustainable and forward-looking industry in the world can get a foothold in europe again, and that we can raise the rate of reindustrialisation to 20%.
as a lake constance coach, it is tragic to see how much the european commission has again succumbed to lobbying pressure, has given in to certain british interests and cannot bring itself to make clear guidelines as to what environmental impact assessments would be necessary if this were to happen.
i would also like to say that i am very much committed to fighting climate change.
we should work a little harder towards the energy transition here.
it is also important that if the community sets the objectives and gives subsidiarity to the member states - as i said, the german energy-saving law is so much in the criticism, but this is a german problem, this is not a european problem - we should not mix things up here, because the objectives were right.
we have seen in the past - and not just in the context of the ash cloud - that it is particularly difficult for passengers who fly, for whom the environment at the airport itself is already stressful, that it is particularly difficult for older passengers who do not necessarily have access to the internet to get accurate information, to be informed of their legal situation, to see where they can stay.
- the european union and its member states are more and more exposed to climate change.
we must not forget that social and environmental issues must also be included and integrated into trade protection!
the eu and its member states should not waste resources in this way!
i would like to ask mr hökmark the following question: the energy charter and the wto negotiations have shown that a good relationship can be very interesting and profitable for both sides.
what do you think about the price differences in the energy sector between russia, ukraine and europe?
on the other hand, it is said that it would be beneficial to shift goods from road to inland waterway transport, primarily to meet an environmental aspect, but also to relieve the road.
and we have a threat - and i want to ask you again very clearly - which, in my view, has been far too little taken into account: there was a european research project involving scientists from germany, italy, switzerland and france, which examined, among other things, how climate change in the alps and glacier retreat are affecting the waterways of the two major navigable rivers in europe - the rhine and the danube.
for ecological reasons, it would very often be the optimal means of transport.
this would be a step backwards for european climate policy!
the expansion of renewable energy and energy saving are inseparable parts of european and austrian climate policy!
in the long term, the eu's energy strategy is designed to achieve three objectives simultaneously: the eu wants to tackle climate change, reduce the eu's external vulnerability due to its high dependence on fossil fuels, and promote growth and jobs through a competitive energy supply.
looking at the eu's overall energy mix, fossil fuels continue to account for the largest shares of the total: oil (36.9%), gas (24%) and coal (17.8%).
nuclear energy accounts for 14%, and renewable energy for 7.1%.
i voted against the report because i believe that the individual member states should take greater care to ensure that energy is supplied autonomously.
- the eu's 2030 climate targets are essentially just a rigid call for percentage progress.
the 2020 climate targets were only defined a few years ago.
the result is vacuum cleaner regulations and light bulb hiccups, because the energy industry cannot and could not manage this on its own.
but regardless, the mere setting of percentage targets will lead to a problem: the savings achieved so far were still feasible without leading to brutal conflicts with energy and industrial policy.
climate policy in germany, a pioneer country in the 2020 climate targets, has already led to a significant increase in energy prices.
a look at the history books would reveal that cheap energy has always been a clear necessity for this.
in short, without a well-considered alignment with energy and industrial policy, climate objectives will either fail or cause significant damage to the other two: competitiveness and jobs in the eu would suffer.
- for all the lofty ideals and goals of environmental protection and public health, it must not be overlooked that the real environmental abusers are the united states and china, who are not economically disadvantaged by their disregard for nature.
the first thing they are asked to do is to change their environmental policy.
the eu is called upon to act in the interests of its own economy and employment and to adapt its environmental policy to global economic competition.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the eu's role in the fight against climate change is to ensure that the world's population is not displaced by climate change.
ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of a major success for our climate policy.
unlike most other sectors, co2 emissions from road transport are increasing - it is now the second largest greenhouse gas emitter in the eu!
cars alone are responsible for about 12% of all european co2 emissions.
between 1990 and 2008, emissions from transport increased by 26%.
the roadmap to a single european transport area, adopted by the commission in 2011, aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector by 60% by 2050. but to achieve this goal, we must make a tremendous effort.
- there is no doubt that it is important to contain or reduce the ever-increasing global co2 emissions in the long term in order to counteract undesirable changes in our environment and to conserve the exhaustible fossil energy sources.
the car industry has invested heavily in reducing emissions and co2 emissions in recent years.
but this must not lead to production being shifted to countries which are not interested in reducing co2 emissions, while jobs are being lost here.
- the objective of significantly reducing co2 emissions from motor vehicles by 2020 means, above all, a significant reduction in fuel consumption.
this is a sensible objective in terms of conserving fossil fuels, reducing our carbon footprint and reducing our dependence on oil by promoting innovation.
however, the report lacks clear statements for the period after 2020. while this is partly due to technological progress that cannot be foreseen today, a further development directive could increase the planning certainty of car manufacturers, especially since they are likely to reach the current 2020 target using the current but outdated (co2 emissions) testing methods.
- the report presented by thomas ulmer looks at the achievement of the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars and highlights the need to create incentives for car manufacturers and developers to design and implement eco-innovations.
the statement that it is not sensible to submit a proposal for the revision of the rules for the period after 2020 as early as 2014 should be considered carefully as these are significant reductions in co2 emissions, timely initiatives are needed and must not be delayed, especially in this case.
in this context, it must also be clear that there are some good private initiatives, for example in the area of food waste, with which cooperation should be intensified.
- sustainable growth is essential for long-term recovery, particularly in combating the persistently high level of unemployment in the eu.
the development of a new variety from research to seed takes an average of ten years, and additional time is needed for testing and commercialisation of a variety, so that large investments in research must be boosted now to meet future food needs and climate change.
at the same time, it also advocates the preservation of biodiversity and supports measures to support diversity.
the aim of the programme is to contribute to: improving people’s health; reducing health inequalities – we are not yet a european union as regards health, there are too many inequalities even though the gap is narrowing; promoting health, but also encouraging innovation in health; increasing the sustainability of health systems, which is a permanent item on the agenda of any meeting of eu health ministers; and finally, protecting our citizens from cross-border health threats – only recently the co-legislators approved the cross-border health threats directive.
but we also know that by investing in green jobs, by investing in eco-jobs, by investing in the whole alternative energy sector, we are creating jobs, we are creating employment.
- the report presented deals with the completion of the european internal market and, in this context, emphasizes the implications for sustainable economic growth.
in particular, key areas such as services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market are to be further coordinated in the light of the economic and employment policies to be improved.
the ep's report calls for emphasis to be placed on projects that ensure sustainable employment and social integration, in particular by promoting the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are very important in latvia.
however, it also covers priorities such as social and economic cooperation, consumer protection, health, data protection, cooperation on the environment and biodiversity and cooperation on gender equality.
the europe 2020 strategy makes it possible to steer the union's economic system towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
another positive aspect is that economic activity will be sustained, as the proposal aims to reduce burdens on the business environment and remove obstacles in the internal market in order to ensure a proper functioning of the economy.
so much for the theory, because we have heard the same stories in the postal, energy and telecommunications sectors, and reality has often shown something else.
it is intended to promote innovation in healthcare and ensure its sustainability.
in addition, it is necessary to take into account that the completion of the digital single market should be accompanied by sustainable development and should therefore not impose additional burdens on the environment.
everybody knows that a well-functioning economy has a business environment that also functions very well and this means that access to financing for smes has to be facilitated.
we need to create an ‘efficient economic infrastructure’ that will foster sustainable growth and jobs in the long term and that will ensure an economically stable future for our young generation.
we are debating today an important agreement which can be regarded as a key element in the european strategy for sustainable management of the forestry sector.
secondly, it aims at and above all ensures the sustainable management of resources in particular and the environment in general.
environmental organisations estimate that €1.2 billion worth of illegal timber is sold in the eu every year.
it is estimated that this is costing timber-producing countries between eur 10 and eur 15 billion per year, which could be used for sustainable development.
indonesia's efforts to promote sustainability in its forestry sector are considered positive and desirable.
we have also looked at the impact on the environment and the indigenous population, without losing sight of the fact that the voluntary partnership agreement with indonesia can count on the support of the european parliament.
the agreement we have reached today marks another major victory in the fight for sustainable trade in timber with third countries.
illegal trade in timber causes economic and environmental damage in the producing countries.
it is estimated that illegal logging is costing timber-producing countries between 10 and 15 billion euros a year in revenue that could be used for sustainable development.
whatever one's views on putin's policies, the eu must be interested in proper relations with moscow, not least because of its geographical proximity and energy supplies.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- over time, it has become increasingly important to ensure the sustainable extraction of raw materials.
we also see that, of course, there is a great deal of attraction in the mediterranean region, particularly in the area of renewable energy, environmental legislation and support for the implementation of these in the countries concerned.
the good intentions you have so beautifully described to us today, such as simplifying the system or protecting biodiversity, are not reflected in the specific articles or are very insufficient.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to promote the use of renewable energy sources.
in other words, commissioner, the loss of this biodiversity is jeopardizing a balanced diet and you are supporting lobbies and are against the interests of small-scale farming and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the eu guarantee will complement the eib’s own risk operations and will add value by supporting local private sector development, in particular by providing support to smes through the development of social and economic infrastructure, including transport, energy and environmental infrastructure and information and communication technology, and through investment in climate change mitigation and adaptation.
we were certainly interested in greater clarity on the amounts disbursed, the number of loans granted, the regions and sectors concerned, so that it would be clearer where these funds are actually being invested, and to highlight, as the heart of the whole problem, that the costs and benefits of sustainable development are actually being better evaluated than has been the case so far.
we have an own-initiative report from the itre committee which deals with the ten legislative acts of the european union which prevent employment in europe, which worsen the business climate.
as inland waterway transport is a particularly environmentally friendly system, improvements in environmental protection can also be sought here, which is a commendable approach.
- the rapporteur's recommendation on the ratification of the nagoya protocol is quite understandable, since it is in favour of the conservation of biodiversity.
the benefits of using genetic resources are also intended to benefit them and to provide a major financial support for the conservation of biodiversity.
it must be adapted to ensure that citizens of the union and environmental organisations can see their concerns reflected and adequately represented.
this is a victory for reason, for the preservation of biodiversity and against bureaucracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's biodiversity is protected.
refrigerants, solvents, insulating gases, foam propellants and aerosol propellants - used in a wide range of industrial sectors are to be replaced in the long term by climate-friendly alternatives.
fluorinated gases contribute up to a thousand times more to global warming than co2.
their use increased steadily when cfcs and other ozone-depleting substances were banned by the montreal protocol in the 1980s.
in 2011, the share of 'f-gases' in the eu-15 greenhouse gas emissions was already 2.2%.
with the expected increase in demand for refrigerants in developing and emerging countries, more and more fluorinated gases are expected to enter the atmosphere and heat the climate over the next decades.
i therefore support the compromise for a phased-out timetable, which would prohibit particularly climate-damaging f-gases in stationary refrigeration systems from 2022 and in stationary air conditioning systems from 2025. we have also introduced a review clause for the pricing and auctioning of allowances.
in the interests of our climate, i would therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this compromise.
mr[nbsp ]daul was committed to saying that we are against binding targets, because the council and the member states are not truly ready to move towards fulfilling the 2020 targets, especially on the environment and energy, and i will come back to that later.
then we will also be able to fulfil our 2020 climate goals or the 2030 climate goals – whatever you want to do.
environmental policy and climate policy can only be carried out by sensible and high-quality green growth.
you have indicated today that the summit will deal with european industrial competitiveness and energy and climate issues, as these areas need to work together.
i am convinced, unlike mr daul, that a sustainable, progressive and, above all, ambitious climate and energy policy will ensure the long-term survival of european agriculture, but above all, it is a prerequisite for a europe of employment and prosperity.
only the energy transition and investment in people's quality of life can safeguard existing jobs and create new ones.
sustainable development means that the present generation meets its needs without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
we have the report – i had many disagreements with mr saryusz-wolski, but we wrote a report in the committee on foreign affairs on an independent energy policy.
in essence, it was a mammoth achievement to create a flexible law that also takes into account the continuous innovations in this innovative business environment, and to set a clear and hard line that cannot be interpreted at will.
shortened flight routes reduce environmental impact and flight times.
i hope that this will not only be economic but also strategic and ecological.
by monitoring the oceans and atmosphere, we can collect data on the effects of climate change in europe to guide targeted responses.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we need investments that create sustainable growth and jobs.
commissioner piebalgs has always put it well: it is in the poorest of the poor that we need energy.
do you see a chance that with european funds we can provide the energy to run smartphones, laptops, computers, to have some light at night, to be able to work?
this would save money and make sustainable use of existing funds.
in order to improve the business environment and decrease youth unemployment, we have to restrain the negative economic impact that could affect our youth as well as the 50+ generation in the long term.
development policy must be geared to sustainability.
the economic crisis has made the situation much worse and the long-term sustainability of social security systems is questionable.
imi the innovative pharmaceutical agency, iter fusion energy and sesar, which is also very active in the air traffic control system for the single airspace we have a nice job here!
and secondly, he also advocates greater energy independence.
if we in the european union continue to pursue our own nuclear policy, to use nuclear energy ourselves, then we must allow iran to do so as well.
i am personally against the use of nuclear energy - and i also reject the peaceful use of nuclear energy for reasons of safety.
but if the european union itself uses nuclear energy, it must allow iran to do so.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are not used for the production of oil and gas.
greater dependence on us energy sources and indirect subsidies to china's economy - can these really be the new eu foreign policy goals?
without pressure, european energy companies will hardly be able to raise the estimated 10 to 25 billion euros needed for retrofitting.
- until now, air transport has been exempted from co2 emission obligations, which means that it has not had to pay for the co2 pollution it causes.
if we were to stick to the requirement to use only intra-eu flights, only about 20% of the emissions from flights to or from eu airports would be covered.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i have rejected this report on the discharge of the european parliament, because i want to fight against the waste of taxpayers' money.
the committee on transport has voted by a large majority to take a step back on the question of cross-border journeys, to ask the commission to do a better job this time, to examine better how this would affect not only the environment but also the economy.
because if we start to weigh up the right to health, the right to a healthy environment against the profit interests of a few companies, then we are on the wrong track.
the report focuses on four key areas, all of which have been liberalised in the last decade: energy, telecommunications, public transport and postal services.
in the energy sector, cost accuracy and greater transparency are required: companies should make all information on prices, price changes and contract changes accessible and public in an easily understandable form.
the report should be adopted to improve the inland waterway sector, which can make a significant contribution to climate and environmental protection by simplifying the transport of goods by sea.
this is the ideal european working environment in which subsidiarity has its place.
the sleepwalkers in europe who do not see the growing scepticism against the failing europe should wake up and work for a europe of growth, jobs and social fairness, and only a strong and united europe can defend our interests globally, from labour rights to climate change.
the only sustainable defence is by strengthening the european union, making it more attractive for our own citizens and in consequence for our neighbours.
the agency's operational tasks relate in particular to pollution response and are mainly concerned with discharges which exceed the capacities of the member states and where they require assistance.
these central tasks are to protect the environment and protect citizens, and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
the agreement also provides a sustainable fishing environment for eu vessels targeting highly migratory tuna and related species in the south-west indian ocean.
- the recommendation presented can be considered to be quite conclusive, since, in addition to the strengthening of political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement, it also offers the opportunity to further promote relations in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science, as well as to expand personal contacts and sectoral cooperation.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
this is an important step for our environment, our health, our landscape and for conserving resources.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative of proposing a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
the rapporteur advocates preventive and prevention measures against the spread, as biodiversity and regional ecosystems can suffer great damage.
- the rapporteur considers that the official entry into force of the doha amendment is one of the most important objectives for the european union, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change.
the report is therefore to be welcomed as a sign of the need to protect the climate and to combat global warming.
this is a waste of money for the eu budget and, subsequently, for taxpayers, which could be used to invest in sustainable growth and jobs.
we share common goals, notably to consolidate democracy and human rights, preserve peace and foster sustainable development.
education shall promote understanding and respect for human rights, inclusion, cultural diversity, lifelong learning and learning to live together, all of which are essential to the realisation of peace, responsible citizenship and sustainable development.
investing in jobs – green jobs –, renewables and energy efficiency is important, but the european parliament also needs to be credible on the inside.
we need to lead by example on energy issues, such as by making these buildings more energy efficient, and also on transparency.
i have to say very clearly: the commission's report clearly states that lithuania now meets all the legal and economic requirements, including the compatibility of legislation with the treaty, price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, sustainability of convergence and exchange rate stability.
there is a climate of repression, where critical voices in the media are silenced and criminalized.
we should be very careful to ensure that we create an infrastructure here that is democratically relevant and sustainable.
are you aware that an energy company wants to sue germany because germany wants to get out of nuclear energy?
the last point is europe's prosperity, which is also based on high standards in the areas of social, labour, environment and agriculture.
it is inconceivable that in future states will be restricted in their legislative powers because they are afraid of the millions of lawsuits filed by large corporations in sensitive areas such as education, environment and health policy, public and social services, financial regulation and tax policy.
sustainable stabilisation of the banking sector, implementation of the coordination decisions, enhancement of competitiveness, growth, employment and investment.
structural reforms must be continued, investment in education, growth, research and the energy union must be made, the barriers to the single market must be removed and budgets must be made fit for the future.
this includes, of course, highly qualified staff, innovative staff, young people with a strong sense of purpose, but also good conditions for our companies, no unnecessary red tape, no bureaucratic environmental requirements and burdens that distort competition.
the union has created very good instruments to ensure the sustainability and coherence of its human rights policy: the european instrument for democracy and human rights and the special representative for human rights, whom i would like to congratulate very warmly on his positive work.
and at the eu summit on thursday and friday this week, leaders will not only agree on the 2030 climate goals, but they will also address ebola.
sustainable investments, such as in infrastructure, renewable energy or education and training, are to be excluded from the calculations.
so again, the macroeconomic environment has to be right!
what europe needs to increase employment in a sustainable way is growth, good conditions for business and innovation, access to sources of finance and the reduction of bureaucracy.
the creation of jobs is possible only through a targeted growth policy, a competition policy and a good business environment.
the key point will therefore be to exclude sustainable investment from the deficit calculations in order to get countries back on the growth path while not neglecting necessary investment.
if the council now in october wants to change course on energy policy, it may be the fateful day for europe's energy-intensive industry.
because although our industry has reduced emissions since 1980, companies are now expected to reduce their co2 emissions by up to 40%.
we already have the highest energy prices in the world with japan for electricity, twice the cost of gas in the united states, three to four times that of canada and the united states.
the voestalpine group is being penalized because of its good performance, increasing production, and having one of the lowest co2 emissions in europe.
it is being asked to pay a large sum in net emissions trading.
it is one that supports investment, that wants to make the eu a global player, that reduces energy dependence, reduces it dependence, builds the single market and understands growth and competitiveness as an activity of social cohesion.
as the currently highly controversial example of ttip shows, this is having an increasingly negative impact on citizens' perception that consumer protection and sustainable economic development are being sufficiently taken into account.
we are promoting things that are not in line with other commitments: environmental protection, animal welfare are mentioned here, cross-compliance issues.
projects which can also contribute to increasing the security of energy supply in the european union in the medium term.
- as peace in northern ireland is still fragile and full implementation of the peace agreement is fraught with difficulties, support for and call for a lasting solution to the conflict and full implementation of the carbon free agreement by the eu parliament through the present resolution is an important and indispensable signal to the parties to the conflict.
turkey is not only violating the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus, but is also jeopardising the exploration of the aphrodite field and the construction of a multibillion-dollar lng terminal on the vassilikos coast - both of which are top priorities for the cypriot government and can help increase the energy security of the european union.
in the light of the recent events in cyprus, the commission has decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i am in favour of suspending aid until the revenues of south sudan are invested in sustainable development and improvement of living conditions.
apart from bad governance, despite aid payments, the country's development concept has not changed: petrodollars are not flowing into sustainable development to improve the general living conditions, the population is still cut off from the wealth of these revenues, and the unilateral reliance on the country's oil sources is far from sustainable.
since the eu should focus on the current european challenges that are happening right on its doorstep and since south sudan should first promote sustainable development with concrete structures, i have decided against further support measures.
i would support mr pieper's proposal to include the mandatory sme tests back in the impact assessment, how to apply the 'think small first' principle in general to all legislative proposals, with the aim of creating a business-friendly regulatory environment.
i think that this resolution that we are adopting together today is a very important step because it brings a holistic, a broad approach to how to fight poverty, how to create sustainable growth and green jobs.
new development pathways for sustainable and inclusive development in the post-2015 period are necessary but not sufficiently considered in the prevailing conditions.
i am firmly convinced that new development paths are necessary for a sustainable development policy beyond 2015 i nevertheless consider the concrete measures proposed to be too little thought out.
while new development pathways are needed for sustainable and inclusive development in the post-2015 period, i believe that the approaches in this proposal have not been sufficiently implemented or sufficiently considered.
we have very often serious health problems resulting from the working environment and from occupational health problems, which are associated with high costs for medical treatment, with corresponding absences and with loss of income for workers and employers.
the designs are balanced and an important further building block to make our economic and financial system more secure and sustainable.
we europeans have a part to play in the fight against global climate change.
according to a study by johannes kepler university in linz, austria, reducing co2 emissions by a further 40% by 2030 will threaten some 61 000 jobs in austria alone.
the industry has already made its contribution to the fight against climate change through emissions trading in many european member states.
the us has more or less moved away from the kyoto protocol, turkey has increased its emissions by 115% in the last 20 years.
i would like to join those who have spoken before me in calling attention once again to the urgent need for the european union to secure and defend its leading role in international climate action at the climate talks.
we have managed to reduce european emissions by 19% as agreed under the kyoto protocol, but we have still increased gross domestic product by over 45%.
our greenhouse gas intensity has been cut by almost half, and our per capita emissions have been cut by 25%.
so we can really take on the challenge of keeping global warming below 2 degrees, if we all do our part.
our commitment to reducing co2, promoting renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency has borne fruit.
let us ensure that copenhagen is not repeated in paris and that a joint international agreement on climate protection really becomes a reality.
the catastrophic results of climate change extreme weather, rising sea levels and the growing number of environmental refugees are no longer in doubt.
this underlines the need for an ambitious and sustainable strategy to combat global warming.
the climate conference in december is designed to enable the 194 member states of the unfccc to adopt an international binding agreement to combat climate change in paris next year.
the european union must take the lead in climate action with a united voice.
it is therefore essential that eu member states present ambitious national strategies that reflect their willingness and will to stop climate change.
only by a coordinated approach can we bring global warming under control.
the 20th united nations climate conference in lima will be the first step towards the 21st united nations climate conference in paris in 2015, which will be the first step towards the 21st united nations climate conference in paris in 2015. this will create the necessary basis for an ambitious agreement to combat climate change.
we europeans have a part to play in the fight against global climate change.
according to a study by johannes kepler university in linz, the reduction of co2 emissions by a further 40% by 2030 threatens some 61 000 jobs in austria alone.
the industry has already made its contribution to the fight against climate change through emissions trading in many european member states.
the report includes good approaches to binding climate regulation, but overall the eu's targets are unrealistic and cause massive damage (not just to energy-intensive industry) in europe, while other countries are pursuing far less ambitious co2 targets.
the us has more or less left the kyoto protocol, turkey has increased its emissions by 115% in the last 20 years.
climate change is of course also a problem for europe, and solutions or at least approaches must be found to counter this threat.
on the other hand, we must not forget the essential economic aspect, which arises, among other things, in emissions trading and which certainly must also be seen as a disadvantage in the context of a growing european economy, especially since europe has certainly made its contribution in this respect.
i would also like to thank commissioner bieńkowska very warmly, because the positive approach to this issue is very important for all of us and of course the question of taxation in this area also plays a major role, because energy costs are of course also largely dependent on taxation and therefore the role of the ets in the steel industry also plays a corresponding role and we cannot therefore accept a double burden on the steel industry.
the rules from 2020 onwards will have to be designed to ensure that we can bring the cleanest and most sustainable industry in the world back to europe.
what concepts will the commission put forward to ensure that the best and most sustainable steel industry in europe is back in the right frame work?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
ias are an early-stage tool in developing legislation and can effectively contribute to providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence on economic, social and environmental areas.
given that the digital single market is a source of high-quality and sustainable employment and that the volume of trade in the digital single market can make a significant contribution to overcoming the economic crisis, i have given my consent to this request.
the digital single market is undoubtedly one of the most important economic pillars for europe in the future, which can make a significant contribution to overcoming the economic crisis through high-quality and sustainable employment.
‒ the cites convention is basically a step in the right direction, although i always stress that it can only be a first step towards conserving biodiversity and protecting animals.
these must be in key areas such as the digital single market, the creation of an energy union and energy efficiency.
this is where the potential for creating sustainable and ecological jobs lies.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
we can double the 21 billion, we can increase the guarantees, we can create tax incentives and we can propose projects, projects which have a european added value instead of nationalising the funds, which are sustainable ecologically, socially and economically instead of having a one-off effect.
the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
the fact that the overall budget is still far too high to be financed in a reasonable and, above all, sustainable way over the next few years, however, weighs heavier and i reject it.
i have rejected the new general budget of the european union as it is nothing but a mixture of further debt and its commitment of resources which in principle do not contribute to the preservation of the union or have any sustainability.
it would be desirable to finally put forward a sustainable and, above all, more efficient strategy for the general budget.
environmental protection is an important concern.
by including transport routes and the extraction methods of raw materials, in particular oil and its refined products, in the carbon footprint of the product concerned, we create a fairer and more truthful environmental footprint.
we are creating a fairer and more accurate carbon footprint for each product by including transport routes and the extraction methods of raw materials, especially oil and its refined products.
i have also voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that environmental protection is also sustainable in the economic sense and because this proposal also makes it more difficult to produce and sell oil and gas in the european union using methods which are environmentally questionable.
the company cited the high tax and duty burden in austria, the high energy costs, the high environmental requirements and the lack of reform intentions of the federal government as reasons for this outsourcing.
this situation is characteristic of the steel industry and of the whole of europe's energy-intensive industry and is leading to a deindustrialisation of europe.
the sustainable strengthening of the steel sector is essential for a new recovery in europe, including a boost to employment.
in addition, it is important to reduce cheap imports from countries with low social and environmental standards.
this motion for a resolution takes account of the social and environmental components as well as the economic aspects.
let me end by asking the commission one question: will you assist and monitor closely the georgian authorities in their investment programme on hydropower plants, urging them to comply fully with eu standards and norms, in particular to the environmental impact assessment of larger plants?