the co2 emission guidelines for light commercial vehicles should be compatible with the eu's long-term climate objectives in order to allow for coherent european environmental legislation.
it is also positive that the incentives should be maintained, because creating incentives for sustainable technologies benefits not only the automotive industry and ultimately consumers, but also the industrial location of europe.
and with ccs as an excuse, energy producers can continue to build the dirty coal plants that we're stuck with for the next 40 years.
and ccs lets us acknowledge that is not necessary at all to decarbonize the energy sector.
we'd be much better off putting our money, our time, our energy into the energy forms of the future.
it also called on the commission to develop the ccs objectives within the 2030 framework for climate and energy policy.
that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i call for support for the green amendments which (1) call on the commission to introduce an eps standard for existing and new power stations and (2) make it clear that there should be no public support for ccs in the energy sector.
to combat this dangerous climate change, industry must also reduce its co2 emissions to almost zero.
but that's why we need to invest in beautiful technologies, in effective technologies where those industrial sectors like the cement industry, like the steel industry, develop technologies that reduce carbon emissions.
so, ladies and gentlemen, let us invest in energy saving, in renewable energy sources, rather than in ccs.
in a period of economic recession and the resulting lack of budgetary resources, but also of increasingly fierce global competition, it is vital for the european union to improve its innovation capacity in a sustainable way.
this clear framework will ensure that co2 emissions are significantly reduced.
if local authorities and companies such as the post office, internet and courier companies equip their own fleets with only the most environmentally friendly, preferably electric vans, this market will become more sustainable much faster.
− this report offered a very good opportunity to strengthen european climate policy and to stimulate innovation in the automotive sector.
tighter emission limits would have made a significant contribution to europe's climate objectives and could have resulted in significant savings for consumers through reduced fuel consumption (estimated at around €5000 per vehicle).
the current limits are too high in relation to actual co2 emissions and no ambitious pathway for co2 emission reductions is being set.
this report is in the interests of producers who are sticking to old production techniques and not thinking ahead, and it has no regard for consumers or the climate.
in 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which aims to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
it is also appropriate to allocate a part of the multiannual budget to consumer policy, since consumer confidence is a major contributor to the prospects for sustainable growth.
- i voted with the greens/efa group against the davis report because it promotes a carbon dioxide storage (ccs) technique which is inefficient.
the greenhouse gas co2 is literally stored underground, with the argument that it does not contribute to the greenhouse effect.
moreover, ccs as an excuse allows energy producers to continue to build fossil fuel power plants.
the davis report, calling on member states to provide financial support for ccs, suggests that member states can share the risk of making citizens pay for the damage caused by an accident, and calls for the eu to include ccs in the 2030 climate and energy policy agenda.
ccs is not necessary at all to make the energy sector less carbon-intensive.
european money and attention can therefore be much better spent on the energy forms of the future: wind and solar energy, geothermal energy and energy conservation.
five years ago, many hoped that the european union would become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs).
if global co2 emissions are to be substantially reduced by 2050 at lower cost, then the deployment of ccs technologies will be essential.
this deployment is necessary to reduce emissions from large industrial installations and can allow the continued use of fossil fuels while significantly reducing the impact on global warming.
one of the main objectives of social protection is to increase equity and efficiency in services, while promoting social inclusion and cohesion, which are essential pillars of inclusive and sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
it is clear that national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic climate.
- i fully support the report by mr prodi which makes a number of proposals to tackle the problem of plastic waste in our environment.
plastic waste often contains dangerous pollutants.
it can persist in the environment for hundreds of years and have a negative impact on our ecosystem and our food chain.
of the 25 million pieces of plastic waste produced in 2008, 50% was buried, 30% incinerated and 20% recycled.
i am therefore pleased that the report sets binding targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste, and that it looks at the elimination of hazardous substances from both recycled plastics and new products.
in addition, waste incineration is being discouraged, the packaging directive will be reviewed and work is being done to radically reduce and phase out single-use bags.
our target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020, mandatory recycling criteria and specific labelling to facilitate sorting will help to start a discussion and give impetus to the deployment of more efficient and advanced waste stream management systems.
this process will continue to be encouraged (provided that the objectives are met) by funding research and development activities on the improvement of recycling, collection and sorting techniques, as well as on advanced materials, in particular with regard to their inherent potential for reuse and sustainability.
first, public procurement accounts for almost 20% of the eu's gdp and must therefore be used as a lever to foster sustainable and inclusive growth.
finally, the commission put an end to the many abuses which had led to social and environmental dumping practices, thereby distorting the functioning of the internal market.
the third point is a very important provision on subcontracting to prevent it from being used as a means of circumventing the rules on compliance with social and environmental criteria.
this will now be the only award criterion, which will encourage the authorities to choose the quality and sustainability of public procurement and investment in the light of social, environmental and sustainability criteria, with price obviously remaining one of the criteria.
the fifth point is abnormally low tenders, which will now have to be monitored by the authority and rejected if they contravene the general principles of respect for collective agreements and the rules on subcontracting and respect for the environment.
our efforts are now moving in the right direction, towards the much-needed economic recovery, sustainable and innovative growth, respect for social rights and our environment.
the committee on the environment and food safety rightly agrees with the court of justice ruling that pollen, and certainly gmo pollen, is an ingredient.
the agenda calls for debate on the report by mr reinhard bütikofer, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability'.
president, commissioner, i think - the commissioner himself has already emphasized this - that industry in europe can only survive if we make energy affordable.
this means that we must give priority to the development of cross-border european energy networks more than ever before.
that means that we must be much more aggressive in our efforts to include social, ecological and environmental criteria in bilateral trade agreements.
this common policy must incorporate an ambitious research-innovation and energy-climate dimension.
the commission must implement without delay a long-term and sustainable common strategy based on the promotion, enhancement and attractiveness of european industry, and based on concrete instruments, with a view to maintaining its competitiveness on the world stage; the committee stressed that the common commercial policy was crucial for industry.
in the aviation sector, for example, there is the airport package with proposals on the allocation of slots, better social conditions for land dealers, or better rules on tackling noise pollution at airports which are not being negotiated.
it is now up to us to support these early signs of hope with a strong european programme: we must be bold to set up and promote ambitious projects together (in the digital economy, renewable energy, defence...).
thirdly, there is a very important climate and energy issue on the table for the greek presidency, namely the 2030 package.
the package will define our energy landscape in 2030 and the eu's measures to combat climate change.
energy efficiency and renewable energy are the fastest and cheapest ways to reduce our energy imports.
and they're also cutting future bills and they're vital to our climate.
i believe it is essential to strengthen cooperation between the two major regional organisations, both economically and commercially and politically, in the areas of security, the environment, culture and education.
europe must be greener, more social and therefore more ecological.
the report stresses the importance of also incorporating respect for a set of common social objectives such as respect for the environment, the fight against global warming, the better use of resources while simultaneously promoting innovation, employment and social inclusion.
social and environmental criteria can now be taken into account by public authorities, and social services are even obliged to do so.
i believe that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring sound and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while also ensuring a higher participation of smes and making public procurement online more widespread.
efforts should be made to exploit fully the potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
i believe that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and establishing sound and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while also ensuring a higher participation of smes and making online procurement more widespread.
efforts should be made to exploit fully the potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
increasing the quality and efficiency of services to citizens, facilitating access to markets for smes, ensuring compliance with good working conditions and environmental criteria: this is a clear step forward for all the actors in our society.
this period has been changed from an indefinite period to a tacitly renewable period of five years.
the question and oral resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety aimed at keeping wildlife crime high on the political agenda of both the eu and the rest of the world.
it is strongly linked to organised crime and seriously threatens regional stability and security, human health and biodiversity.
it is therefore with great interest that i welcome this own-initiative report which calls for an ambitious european strategy to ensure a viable, dynamic, competitive and sustainable industry.
the commission must implement without delay a common long-term and sustainable strategy based on the promotion, enhancement and attractiveness of european industry, as well as on concrete instruments, with a view to maintaining its global competitiveness.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council directive on the protection of the environment through the protection of natural resources.
the objective is to ensure that the commission is properly and regularly informed of investment projects in the union's energy infrastructure so that it can fulfil its task in the energy sector.
it will also carry out, every two years, a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the union's energy system, as well as any other specific analysis deemed necessary.
this instrument is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility for the identification of investment needs in energy infrastructure and the completion of the internal energy market.
we are not talking about a regression in terms of social or environmental achievements, that is not the point.
- this report, drawn up on the initiative of my green german colleague elisabeth schroedter, deals with smart energy networks as a stimulus for local and regional development.
it is based on good examples from a number of regions and communities that are at the forefront of the energy transition: from fossil fuel dependence to energy independence based on renewable energy and smart grids!
energy savings, boosting innovation, autonomy, and the introduction of smart energy networks.
in the latter, a smart grid is part of a regional energy strategy with decentralised renewable energy sources, smart storage solutions, energy efficiency measures, and links with other sectors (such as transport, housing and urban planning).
energy consumers thus become both consumers and producers.
the report also stresses the need for a stable long-term policy framework for energy and climate change.
the report thus provides a very good framework for regions to participate in the energy transition.
challenges need to be addressed to implement smarter energy systems in european regions.
it is possible to make regions and communities more sustainable across europe.
through joint efforts, the model regions, islands and communities mentioned in this presentation will no longer be pioneers, but will become the reality of a more prosperous, sustainable and energy independent european union.
support for small farmers not only safeguards existing jobs and creates new ones, but also counteracts population decline, promotes sustainable agriculture and thus has a positive impact on entire regions.
from an economic point of view this is a positive situation, but if the scale of migration from the countryside and agriculture due to the replacement of labour by capital is large and sustainable, this phenomenon can lead to a strengthening of the depopulation situation and, consequently, to the withering away of the countryside and the places of life in rural areas.
as rapporteur for my group on the employment committee's opinion on this report on the future of the steel industry, i welcome its adoption because it largely takes up the elements of that opinion, which i had proposed or supported: firstly, the strengthening of the social dialogue to better anticipate restructuring; secondly, the coordination of member states' strategy within a common industrial policy which puts an end to social dumping between member states of the union; which strengthens the defence of the interests of the european steel industry in international trade negotiations; and which makes better use of european funds for the qualification or requalification of steel workers (the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund); and, thirdly, a balanced energy and climate policy which would not impose on european steel companies the exorbitant costs of other global areas.
it is time for the regions concerned to rethink their model and to focus on a competitive and sustainable steel industry.
this necessarily requires the creation of a virtuous circle aimed at reducing the exceptionally high cost of energy and raw materials through a harmonised energy policy that is less dependent on imports and at promoting the deployment of low-carbon energy sources in order to encourage their rapid integration into the electricity market.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what climate and energy ambitions do we want to set for ourselves for the period 2020-2030?
i know that we are coming a long way and that it could have been even less ambitious, but i find it particularly worrying in its notion of new governance applied to the renewable objective.
the most crucial question for me is how we are going to reduce the costs, the energy prices that weigh heavily on business, on industry and most especially on our citizens.
the european union imports nearly €400 billion in net costs each year, so if we want to reduce our energy imports, we need to produce more in europe by exploiting our resources in a sustainable, efficient and responsible way.
in short, as i have said before, the wider the range of energy we have, the more we are pushing down prices, i am convinced.
and i also believe that combining a broad energy mix with greater energy efficiency, that is, with the will to consume more optimally, is the best combination, i believe, to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, to spur innovation, to spur new technologies, to create jobs, to transform our economies into greener economies.
understand me well, i am not going to give a blank check to the continuation of the 20-20-20 climate package as it exists today.
we need a gradual reduction in the aid granted to mature technologies, including renewable technologies.
my second point is yes, it is true, europe today accounts for around 11% of global emissions, but when you account for 11% of global emissions that does not mean that you do not have a responsibility to deliver your fair contribution to the international table.
that is why it makes a lot of sense – economic sense, as well as sense when it comes to competitiveness and jobs – that we get a better energy policy for europe, that we focus more on efficiency, on renewables and on alternative sources.
it is somehow strange that those who are so preoccupied with the energy bills of european citizens – as many of us are – that they never make a point of the more than eur 500 billion that the eu’s member states each year pour into putin’s russia and the different regimes in the middle east and elsewhere from which we import our fossil fuels?
there are more reasons than just the international climate negotiations why we should address these kinds of issues, and if you read the package that we presented from the commission it is clear that this is one aspect; but the other aspects are also very much present.
that is how it looks, that is the political picture, and i would only say to those of us who want ambition, including ambition in fighting climate change, that the test is whether we can also get it through, so that europe can very soon send a signal to the world and play the role that we must play if the world is to try to get an international framework to combat climate change in place by 2015. it would be very helpful if tomorrow this parliament adopted the report that we have been discussing today.
the first is clear: the reduction of co2 emissions.
i think there are also a lot of implications for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
but we should continue to pursue an independent energy efficiency policy and not just rely on the fact that reducing co2 emissions automatically leads to less energy waste, less energy consumption and more accurate energy use.
the energy efficiency label should be a label for the european strategy for the next decade.
we shall have to debate in the autumn whether we should declare a binding target or set out various measures, whether we should put energy intensity in the foreground or whether we should set absolute figures for energy consumption.
but to let the energy efficiency directive 2020 expire and to blame everything on the co2 reduction would be too little for me.
the same applies to renewable energy sources.
i would like to make it clear that we, as the commission, are neutral in relation to nuclear energy.
it is only if we have no targets for renewable energy in addition to co2 emissions reduction and, conversely, nuclear power receives indirect guarantees through feed-in tariffs that the balance between two equally emission-friendly but completely opposite technologies - nuclear power and renewable energy sources - does not seem to me to be maintained.
that is why i am in favour of continuing our policy on renewable energies with a binding target at european level.
but at least 27%, if you look at all the sectors - transport, heating, electricity - will only be achievable if we produce at least 45% renewable energy in the electricity sector - at least 45%!
we are promoting renewable energy through expertise and analysis, through research, through funding, through networks and infrastructure.
a european system for the timely and degressive marketing and promotion of renewable energy.
the last point: the subject of nuclear energy and the united kingdom was raised.
no, the objective of this climate and energy framework is not just to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i agree with mr chris davies that we need to promote a low-carbon, low-cost economy.
but what is meant by low-carbon and low-cost economy is also meant by "new technologies, innovation, employment".
and do you think that a single greenhouse gas reduction target will address these challenges?
i would like to stress that the energy efficiency criterion is the most important in terms of its contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
a single target of 40% energy efficiency by 2030 would allow us to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 50% and achieve a 35% share of renewable energy in our energy production without any additional measures.
the figures are 40, 50 or 60 per cent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
the conclusion of this protocol is positive in more than one respect: in addition to strengthening the links between the union and gabon, it introduces new control instruments in the fight against illegal fishing (through the establishment of a satellite vessel monitoring system and a new electronic communication system); it is in line with a sustainable development policy, in accordance with the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (icsat); finally, it allows the development of the workforce along the coast by providing aid to coastal communities and small freezing and processing enterprises.
with global warming, greenland, an overseas country and territory (oct), is becoming a strategic and economic challenge for many powers in search of new natural resources and new waterways.
in this context, it was time to establish a new partnership that would help diversify its economy in a sustainable way.
on this point, i would like to stress the need to adopt all the necessary preventive measures so that the exploitation of greenland's natural resources is based on strict criteria of environmental sustainability, in order to protect the fragile ecosystem of the area.
in order to avoid paying a price in human, environmental and economic lives, we must pay greater attention to precautionary measures and, consequently, improve prevention.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
my group regrets that iran was not finally admitted and supports the efforts of lakhdar brahimi to turn the semi-failure of geneva into a sustainable negotiating process, emphasizing humanitarian aspects capable of rebuilding confidence.
climate action has not been a party to the party in recent years.
between the failure of international summits and disagreements within the european union itself, the next un climate conference in december 2015 looks perilous.
the european commission's presentation on 22 january of a new european climate and energy package, which is both realistic and ambitious, is therefore welcome news.
with one binding target set: 40% reduction in co2 emissions by 2030. that's the right signal.
europe has finally realised that if it is to remain at the forefront of the fight against climate change, it must present achievable targets.
for my part, i opposed one of the three binding targets proposed in the delvaux report for a simple reason: increasing the share of renewable energy by 30% by 2030 is unrealistic for a majority of member states.
and a conclusion: renewable energy will not change the energy landscape, so it is better to focus on energy savings!
investing in the environment and energy sector must remain a european priority as it is the future and creates jobs.
the main polluters in the world must follow the european path when it comes to limiting greenhouse gas emissions, otherwise all these targets will have the same impact as a sneeze in the middle of a wind turbine field.
and of course, this is good for the consumer and good for the environment.
less co2 means less consumption, of course, and is better for our energy dependency.
we say that the european semester must have as its main objective the reduction of inequalities on the one hand and the reduction of our ecological footprint on the other.
energy transition is a cost, but there is no question that at some time we will need to get rid of our addiction to fossil fuel, and that means investment.
europe and the member states can work together to ensure that the private sector, industry and businesses generate the necessary sustainable jobs and long-term growth.
- this report is welcome, as it aims to increase the efficiency and sustainability of passenger cars, thereby promoting both a low-carbon economy and sustainable growth, and reducing the eu's dependence on oil.
this flexibility is needed in setting the emission standards it requires in order not to stand in the way of a more rapid and sustainable development of vehicles.
i also welcome the continuation of the incentives, because they provide incentives for the use of sustainable technologies.
setting sustainable but above all realistic targets for new cars will strengthen europe's research and innovation base and thus help to counter the relocation of production sites and the associated job losses in europe.
they got the christian democrat rapporteur to agree to a maximum of 95g co2 emissions per km by 2020. it is even more unimaginable that the five per cent of the most polluting vehicles have a back door to avoid the low-level commitments.
i regret that some member states still do not realise that strong climate policy and technological innovation go hand in hand.
if we in the european union do not have the political courage to force the car industry to implement environmental reforms, who will?
it aims to increase these emissions from the average of 130 grams of co2 per kilometre observed between 2012 and 2015 to 95g/km by 2020. the commission proposal sets out how this target will be achieved by 2020. reducing co2 emissions from cars is good for consumers and the environment.
a trademark is an intellectual property instrument with a renewable 10-year validity, which guarantees the origin of goods and services.
a trademark is an intellectual property instrument with a renewable 10-year validity, which guarantees the origin of goods and services.
the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances and preparations.
legislation based on better harmonisation of marketing rules but above all aiming at a high level of protection of human health and the environment.
it is important to stress the critical importance of having a functioning and competitive plant breeding sector to meet future challenges, whether it is future food supply needs or climate change.
i also stress the importance of preserving and developing the existing european diversity within the agro-ecosystem as a whole as well as the genetic diversity within varieties and the absolute number of different primitive species and breeds, all of which are essential to ensure our ability to adapt to the challenges arising from climate change.
the transport plans should, of course, contain some details, but they should also take into account the multimodal aspect, the sustainable aspect, the rights of passengers and even those with disabilities.
so we must create this cross-border business which will bring more jobs, more revenue and more economic benefit and less environmental damage.
we must work to launch ambitious projects, particularly in the fields of energy, digital technology, transport and services.
as a result of the crisis, there has been a sharp increase in the proportion of the population at risk of poverty or social exclusion, living in material deprivation, experiencing environmental degradation and precarious housing conditions, or experiencing very low work intensity and threatened with exclusion and energy poverty.
the european social fund contributes to reducing the gaps in human capital between regions and increasing employment rates by contributing, alongside and in complementarity with the european regional development fund, to some of the union's current major priorities, namely boosting youth employment and the labour market, promoting sustainable economic growth and development, reducing the number of young people who drop out of school, and combating poverty, discrimination and social exclusion.
the aim of this report is to propose, by going beyond the current, sometimes exhausted, approaches, a reversal of approach so that investment policies in the outermost regions are open to new fields and allow their sustainable development.
i voted in favour of this report, which aims to: consolidate the political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation between the parties under the san josé dialogue, which was launched in 1984 and relaunched in florence in 1996 and then in madrid in 2002; to strengthen the cooperation programme governed by the framework agreement for cooperation between the european community and the republics concerned; promote sustainable development in both regions through a development partnership involving all relevant actors, including civil society and the private sector, in accordance with the principles set out in the monterrey consensus, as well as in the johannesburg declaration and its implementation plan; to establish cooperation on migration and to prepare for the launching of new initiatives to pursue common objectives and establish a common basis in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration flows and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, terrorism, narcotics and small arms and light weapons.
the eu-central america agreement on political dialogue and cooperation signed in 2003 covers many areas (political, economic, social, cultural, environmental, health, education, science and technology, and the defence of fundamental rights, such as those of minorities, or gender equality).
although the text of the partnership is much broader in scope and covers a wide range of topics, such as political dialogue, economic and social cooperation, cultural exchanges, cooperation in the fields of education and training, consumer protection, health, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the fields of environment and biodiversity, participation of civil society, cooperation on gender equality, cooperation with regard to indigenous peoples and other ethnic groups in central america, etc., the libe committee is only supposed to examine issues falling under article 49 (3) of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, in particular the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
finally, the producers concerned also have to bear the general additional costs for the local economy, in particular in terms of labour and energy supply.
decision 2004/162/ec sets out the reasons for the adoption of these specific measures: remoteness, insularity, small market size and underdeveloped exports, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, and even sometimes natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes.
the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as their dependence on energy and raw materials, have an impact on production costs.
the partnership and cooperation agreement aims to strengthen relations between the union and indonesia, based on the shared principles of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, through the development of political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, environment, climate change, energy, science and technology, good governance and conflict resolution, tourism and culture, migration, and the fight against terrorism and piracy, corruption and organised crime.
despite these three legislative packages, the european railway sector still faces problems such as obstacles to competition, discrimination and the absence of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
as this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of events by airline employees, it is essential to ensure that an environment of trust, a 'just culture', is established.
with a budget of €449.4 million, the european union will support member states with differentiated projects to innovate their healthcare, increase their commitment to sustainable healthcare and protect eu citizens from cross-border diseases.
i am proud that we have succeeded, together with the other green parties, in including environmental factors as risk factors in addition to those linked to a particular lifestyle.
pollution is responsible for many of today's chronic and noncommunicable diseases.
it is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation in healthcare, ensure its sustainability and improve the well-being of european citizens.
we need to pay particular attention to ensuring that these investments can accompany the necessary structural reforms and steer our economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
while the unprecedented global demand for minerals and other natural resources represents a unique opportunity to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it also poses significant challenges for developing countries.
the exploitation of high-value natural resources such as oil, gas, minerals and timber is a major source of conflict worldwide, especially in a context of increasing competition for access to increasingly scarce renewable resources such as land and water.
environmental degradation, population growth and climate change are further exacerbating this situation.
the commission's proposal was approved by a large majority and the report was referred back to the committee on the environment.
the agreement aims to make global forest management more sustainable, to stop deforestation and forest degradation, and to promote systemic change in the forest sector by rewarding the efforts of law-abiding economic operators who source their timber from legitimate and reliable suppliers and protecting them from unfair competition.
deforestation and forest degradation are major environmental problems worldwide.
the example of indonesia is crying truth: the third largest rainforest in the world after the amazon and the congo basin, and especially 1,240,000 hectares of forest lost between 2009 and 2011. unfortunately, this environmental bleeding goes hand in hand with the loss of biodiversity and the multiplication of co2 emissions.
the conclusion of this agreement is an important step for the eu in its efforts to make global forest management more sustainable, to stop deforestation and forest degradation, and to promote systemic change in the forest sector by rewarding the efforts of law-abiding economic operators who source timber from legitimate and reliable suppliers and protecting them from unfair competition.
however, this heritage is being threatened by the massive and unbridled destruction of tropical rainforest and carbon-rich peatlands for palm oil and paper production, making indonesia the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases and a major contributor to climate change.
deforestation and forest degradation are major environmental problems worldwide.
the example of indonesia is crying truth: the third largest rainforest in the world after the amazon and the congo basin, and especially 1,240,000 hectares of forest lost between 2009 and 2011. unfortunately, this environmental bleeding goes hand in hand with the loss of biodiversity and the multiplication of co2 emissions.
it is necessary to regulate their working conditions and guarantee them equal treatment with men, to ensure that future generations are attracted to working conditions in the sector and to recognise the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries.
climate and energy policy.
i think we are very clear that more efforts must be made towards sustainable energy projects.
i think the balance should also shift more clearly to renewable energy projects.
smart energy infrastructure also needs to play a greater role.
by 2015, a new plan must be put forward, a stronger plan, including the resources that will be used for climate and energy.
a less diverse supply of seeds will also provide less protection against disease and climate change.
the commission has already proposed a proposal to encourage and facilitate the biodiversity and genetic diversity of the seed supply.
mr president, protecting biodiversity, protecting small businesses in the sector, protecting old seeds: like many others here, i tabled many amendments to the text presented.
i repeat, the protection of biodiversity, small businesses in the sector and ancient seeds requires effective legislation which respects and protects these values.
as we know, biodiversity is an essential data for scientific research, technological applications, health products, food and cosmetics.
unfortunately, for several decades now, this biodiversity has been seriously degraded.
the report therefore proposes a series of measures to safeguard these resources, both biological and cultural: ensuring the integrity of the chain of use so that contracts concluded upstream of the exploitation of resources are clearly respected, banning 'biopiracy' in europe - in other words, the prohibition of the illegal acquisition and use of genetic resources - or, in order to safeguard global biodiversity, the creation of a fund on benefit-sharing.
the vote was not surprising, given the number of critics, and it confirmed the opposite views already expressed by the parliament's agriculture and environment committees.
like the rapporteur, paolo silvestris, i am critical of a text which merges twelve directives into one regulation, which has not been the subject of any impact study on smes in the agricultural sector, and above all whose philosophy is wrong: eu legislation on agricultural seeds must promote the maintenance of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture, and not the other way around!
the draft directive was a major threat to ancient seeds, thus putting european biodiversity at great risk, and it was a game played by a few large groups to the detriment of small farmers.
these lobbies wanted the reform to be passed in force to avoid democratic debate because the original version of the text is clearly in their favour, serves the interests of small farmers and harms the maintenance of biodiversity!
in order to respond to this situation, i propose the creation of a european union benefit-sharing fund to be funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving global biodiversity.
this proposal, as part of the 'technical inspection' package, aims to promote and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection.
while the environment is still high on the list, other equally serious issues have become priorities, such as the consequences of the crisis and the rights of the child.
but there is also a dire need to drastically improve the efficiency of the aviation sector and thus eliminate the existing waste.
and of course it's also good for the environment because of lower co2 emissions and lower fuel consumption.
first of all, a real common energy policy and, as graham watson indicated, we need binding targets.
it is the only way to have a real common energy policy.
the union's energy policy is only relevant in the context of a transversal industrial policy conducive to economic recovery.
this reduction is through environmental efforts, such as increasing the share of renewable energy or our energy efficiency.
yes, europe must set the example in this respect worldwide, with binding standards and strengthened objectives, but accompanied by a fair trade policy which is demanding in environmental and social matters.
in short, an energy and environmental ambition in the service of reindustrialisation.
the aquaculture sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use.
a fragmented approach threatens to saturate european airspace, with a number of negative consequences: loss of competitiveness, delays, increased fuel consumption and emissions.
by managing our airspace wisely, we can reduce costs and emissions while leaving enough capacity.
- due to the negative impact of greenhouse gases on the climate, this report provides for a steady reduction of certain fluorinated greenhouse gases.
the approach adopted is one that protects the climate but also gives the industries affected, such as heat pump and refrigeration manufacturers, enough time to replace the f-gases with safe alternatives.
it is necessary to use a model of truly sustainable development throughout the union and to fully support the commission's proposal.
the proposed amendments are therefore essentially designed to strengthen this proposal by adding a few passages to make it even more effective, easier to transpose into national law and more conducive to achieving environmental protection objectives.
the copernicus system will enable europe to better manage the environment and its natural resources, agriculture, various pollution, climate change, natural and man-made disasters, civil protection, security, etc.
the european union must also look at the question of energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners in this area.
i voted in favour of the resolution, but i am concerned that the implementation by the members of the arctic council of the agreement on arctic search and rescue and the agreement on oil pollution response covers only pollution preparedness and control activities, does not regulate oil spill prevention and does not provide for any provision to ensure that operators assume full economic and environmental responsibility.
you may like it or not, this is the reality, but no sustainable solution has been found so far.
this would simplify the use of radio equipment such as mobile phones, reduce waste and costs and, therefore, bring considerable benefits to consumers.
i note that, despite the persistence of some adverse factors, the european economy is showing some signs of recovery and, while acknowledging the remaining economic and budgetary constraints at national level and the fiscal consolidation efforts made by member states, i believe that the european budget should encourage this trend by reinforcing strategic investment in european added value actions, in order to help get the european economy back on track, generating sustainable growth and employment while working to strengthen competitiveness and improve economic and social cohesion across the union.
the sustainability of land governance depends on institutional reforms and capacity building programmes that must accompany the registration of land ownership and small businesses.
aviation emissions are a global problem that can only be effectively addressed at a global level.
in the transport committee we found a balanced solution, which provides for both a suspension of the emissions trading system (ets) for international flights by 2016 and exceptions for the outermost regions.
it is essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
the widespread use of environmental accounting data by the european commission and national administrations can only be encouraged, with the aim of developing targeted policies that can contribute to the union's policy priorities of green growth and resource efficiency.
the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
i argue that a comprehensive approach to the problem of emissions from international aviation is the best way to ensure long-term sustainability.
this is part of our efforts to achieve a future international agreement to control greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.
the objective is to use these revenues to combat climate change in the union and in third countries and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we want to extend this system to aviation in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this sector and thus contribute to the global fight against climate change.
the suspensive legislation on international aviation emissions (iaea) was a temporary derogation from the provisions of the directive on emission trading standards 2003/87/ec.
the new commission proposal takes an airspace approach: it will apply from 2014, but only covers a certain proportion of emissions (no more than 12nm outside the european economic area) from flights arriving in and departing from non-eu countries.
by voting for this text, i support the protection of net neutrality which will support the global single telecoms market and is essential to create a safe environment for investment in this sector and thus allow for competitiveness, growth and job creation.
this cooperation should be achieved through the organisation of regular and institutionalised meetings between the commissioners responsible for external relations and other commissioners with competence in the different foreign affairs policies, such as development, trade, energy, environment, internal market and migration.
the rise of multidimensional and asymmetric threats; the reorientation of us security policy towards the asia-pacific region; the growing struggle for energy and resource security; the increasingly serious consequences of climate change; and a severe and protracted global economic and financial crisis from which no member state of the european union is immune.
i would like to stress that in such a geopolitical climate, the european union must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the world stage, while protecting the security and prosperity of its citizens.
we invite the council, provided that substantial progress is made in the nuclear negotiations, to enter into discussions on concrete measures that could lead to an improvement in the eu-iran bilateral relationship, including a possible future contractual framework for such relations and the establishment of sectoral cooperation, for example on the development of civil society and the iranian private sector, as well as in the areas of the fight against narcotics (while ensuring that suspects receive a fair trial and are not sentenced to death), environmental cooperation, technology transfer, infrastructure development and planning, education and culture, child protection and health, and joint initiatives to promote and protect human rights.
it is almost symptomatic to talk about alternative fuels at the end of the legislative period, because it was one of the cornerstones when we said at the beginning of this period with the white paper, among other things, that in transport these alternative fuels are one of the challenges, that we are of course not only supporting an alternative, but also an energy mix.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
the commission will also assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources.
in conclusion, i would like to remind you that this proposal not only addresses the issue of dependence on oil for up to 90% of transport, but also the issue of europe's energy dependence - 84% of which is imported - but also suggests concrete alternatives.
the third important point is the reduction of the environmental impact of transport and the corresponding improvement in the quality of life in urban areas, where it is proved that up to 80% of people will live in the next ten or fifteen years.
we have other documents and other decisions; for instance, how to promote sustainable urban mobility, and we even have an abbreviation: sumps – sustainable urban mobility plans.
we promote it and encourage member states to develop public transport and sustainable urban mobility.
it encourages the use of low-carbon propulsion technologies and makes trucks more aerodynamic.
keeping the 50 cm limit means forgoing important benefits in terms of lower emissions and fuel consumption.
we must not forget that the purpose of weights and measures was primarily to improve safety and also to improve aerodynamics, and thus to have a partial positive impact on consumers and the environment.
because i think that if a truck has to cross a border with almost nothing to make a four tonne difference, that's not the best sign for the environment either.
we believe that this is contrary to the objectives which the european commission itself has set out in its white paper on transport, namely to promote long-distance transport mainly by means of sustainable modes of transport such as rail and inland waterway.
very recently, the flemish government, of which his party is a part, has started a pilot project on ecocombs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of road transport is taken into account.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by anthea mcintyre, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on 'how can the european union help create an enabling environment for businesses, corporations and start-ups to create jobs?'
(2013/2176(ini)) (a7-0101/2014), and- the question with request for an oral reply to the commission 'top 10' consultation process and reduction of burdens on smes by eu regulation' by paul rübig, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o000049/2014 - brs7-0118/2014) (2013/2711(p)).
but of course, we are particularly proud of the fact that all these new rules also give us a new perspective that the banking sector can do what it should do, namely, to ensure that it plays a role in the real economy, so that we can get back to sustainable growth and create jobs in the private sector.
it is a valuable tool for relocating our economy and therefore, from a strictly ecological point of view, it is extremely important.
the fund's intervention is a kind of response to the crisis in order to revive the economy in the affected region by developing sustainable solutions such as hiring incentives or financing of vocational training.
the general objective of the empir programme is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation.
sound investment should accelerate the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of making the european union a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy
in writing.
pch techniques can offer a number of long-term, clean and sustainable european solutions to the many societal challenges, but they still face multiple obstacles to effective research and innovation and large-scale deployment.
this network will contribute to the strengthening of public employment services and will aim to support in particular the most vulnerable social groups, to promote decent and sustainable work, to improve the functioning of the labour market in the union and its integration, and to promote voluntary geographical and occupational mobility on fair terms, in order to meet specific labour market needs.
while it is possible to live a lifetime without being directly affected by the price of stocks and bonds, it is impossible to live a lifetime without being affected by the price of food and energy.
the raw materials markets have developed without taking into account the legitimate needs of producers and consumers for raw materials, agricultural products and energy in order to guard against the impact on prices of factors beyond their control.
whether to mitigate risk or to ensure a competitive environment for post-trade services, it is necessary to look at existing models of central securities depositories (csds) across the european union.
the work of the agency in pollution prevention and preparedness and response is not only financially attractive, but also has a non-monetary added value.
given the devastating environmental impact and the enormous economic costs of potential accidents, as well as their socio-economic consequences on other sectors, such as tourism and fisheries, sufficient investment in the agency is crucial.
it maintains the european presence in the field of long-distance fishing and the fishing opportunities in this region of the indian ocean, contributes to the sustainability of fishing grounds and strengthens cooperation between the european union and seychelles.
the conclusion of the protocol will pave the way for the gradual opening of certain eu programmes to georgia or for the enhancement of georgia's participation in them, which will not only strengthen ties in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science, intensify people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation, but also consolidate political relations in favour of the eastern partnership and the association agreement.
in accordance with the explanatory memorandum accompanying the commission proposal, council decision 2004/162/ec of 10 february 2004 (amended by council decisions 2008/439/ec of 9 june 2008 and 448/2011/eu of 19 july 2011), adopted pursuant to article 299 (2) of the ec treaty (now corresponding to article 349 of the tfeu), authorises france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the 'octroi de mer' tax for a number of products manufactured in its outermost regions (excluding saint-martin) in order to strengthen competitiveness and to offset the additional production costs resulting from remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to maintain large stocks, the smaller size of the export market and the low level of local development.
this has economic, social and environmental added value for the whole region and therefore bierset airport has always been mentioned in the debate, including by the european commission, as a prime example.
in the context of the 'airport package' on the (expansion of) airport capacity, the european commission has decided to adapt european legislation on noise emissions.
this approach does not focus on reducing noise, pollution, health and safety risks, but on the economic interests of commercial aviation, a handful of companies with a strong lobby.
this is the exact opposite of what european legislation should do, which is to ensure that all options remain available to guarantee the right to a healthy and quiet living environment.
the introduction of a minimum wage in germany is anything but trivial and also part of the overall environment in which social europe is taking shape step by step.
as many as 8 billion plastic bags end up in the european environment as waste every year.
it is clear that this is causing great damage to the environment, particularly in our seas.
the proper implementation and enforcement of the waste directive remains very important and the packaging directive has a lot of potential.
those who have seen reports on what scientists and navigators call the "7th continent", this giant patch of plastic waste floating on the pacific ocean, 100 times the size of belgium, can only agree with the ambitious proposals in ms. auken's report.
it is still the best policy with consumer awareness, environmental education to achieve the goal of 80[nbsp]% less disposable plastic bags by 2019.
in writing.
the green group is now taking a lead in tackling this major environmental problem at european level.
our legislation requires member states to reduce the use of polluting plastic bags by 80% by 2019. when we consider that each european uses 200 plastic bags a year, 180 of which are not or only slightly reused, we can see the extent of the environmental consequences of this.
while it is important to ensure that the regulation under consideration covers emissions from shipping as consistently as possible, it is also essential to focus on the essentials and to limit implementation costs and administrative burdens.
we therefore propose to exclude transportation from other useful climate-related information, as this data is not related to emission measurements.
the high cost of fuels already provides a strong incentive for the maritime market to improve its energy efficiency, and the energy efficiency of transport in real-world conditions is a much more complex issue, which cannot be addressed without knowledge of the specific market conditions that dictate the decisions of shipowners and ship operators.
the actual energy efficiency of a journey and its impact on social welfare cannot be determined without knowing the cargoes available, their mass in relation to weight, weather conditions, applicable prices, geographical and other constraints, delivery time, etc.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new species.
the eu is home to over 12 000 species that are alien to their natural environment, of which about 15% are invasive.
invasive alien species have a particularly damaging impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, causing considerable damage to human health, agriculture and infrastructure with significant economic consequences (estimated at €12 billion per year across the eu).
i was therefore astonished when the environmental management committee (envi) of the parliament, led by the socialist rapporteur pavel poc, decided to adopt an open list of exceptions per member state, in order to safeguard the fur processing industry.
fortunately, the negotiations with the council of environment ministers have opted for a more differentiated approach, whereby the most threatening organisms are no longer allowed to be released, imported or traded throughout the eu.
we consider that the scope of the proposed amendment to regulation (eu) no[nbsp ]525/2013 on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions in the european union fully reflects the need to establish and adopt specific and consistent rules to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the european union after 2012, to allow for the successful implementation of the joint commitments of the union, its member states and iceland and to ensure alignment with the functioning of the union ets and the effort sharing decision.
i consider the formal entry into force of the doha amendment to be one of the european union's priority objectives, given that the kyoto protocol makes an indispensable contribution to the global fight against climate change.
this cooperation can be improved by various means: adding to the objectives the special attention required for the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment or the fight against social dumping; involve the social partners and national labour administrations; respect the organisation of competences in the different member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we disagree with the commission's approach and want strict control of fishing activity to lead to sustainable management from an environmental and social point of view.
europe needs a trillion euros to achieve the europe 2020 objectives, including transport, telecommunications, energy and infrastructure, and we all know how difficult it is to get bank financing today.
in addition, eltifs have to comply with certain requirements set out in the regulations, in particular the types of long-term assets in which they can be invested, the companies they can invest in, for example infrastructure, transport, renewable energy projects, how their money should be distributed to reduce risks, and so on.
we have also had to make it possible for private initiative to regain its place, for it to become possible, through a good investment climate, but also through the creation of the right investment vehicles, for private investors to find the private projects to be able to effectively generate economic growth again.
we must give the next commission the task of looking at how to create a good investment climate again, how to give institutional investors the space to do their real job, which is to finance the real economy.
- we all know that waste is a resource with potential.
commission research has shown that full compliance with the eight eu waste legislation, including the regulation we are discussing today and hopefully strengthening in the future, could increase the turnover of the european waste treatment industry by €42 billion by 2020. that could create 400,000 additional jobs.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal waste shipments, and it is therefore important to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented.
the point is to keep waste here and not to dump it unnecessarily in third world countries, where it is treated indiscriminately, in antisocial conditions and sometimes with the use of child labour.
the illegal recycling of waste is a serious problem.
the commission calculated that if only 1% of waste shipments are illegal, then 2.8 million tonnes of waste are illegally exported every year.
the european environmental implementation and enforcement network (impel) and the people who do the checks in ports estimate that about 25% of all waste shipments are effectively illegal.
that would mean that some 70 million tons of waste are illegally exported every year.
the commission put forward a proposal in july last year to strengthen the existing regulation on waste shipments.
i visited the port of antwerp, where i had a very interesting meeting with the customs authorities, the public waste management company, the federal environmental police and also the local magistrate responsible for combating environmental crime.
all member states should draw up a risk-based control plan detailing a strategy and objectives for controls on waste shipments and specifying the means to be used for this purpose.
whether or not it is waste, or its destination, i.e.
member states should also provide for a minimum number of physical inspections of installations or waste shipments in accordance with agreed objectives and based on a sound risk assessment.
4. other a harmonised protocol for the collection, recording and reporting of data on the enforcement of the regulation and a comparative table for customs and waste codes will be established.
(this was a difficult point in the negotiations with the member states) the monitoring plans must be made public in accordance with the 2003 directive on public access to environmental information, which we adopted in 2004. the directive has several aspects, active and passive dissemination, and we as a parliament wanted to go further in this respect.
that was a difficult point in the council of ministers and it strikes me that in a great many discussions on environmental legislation we still have to push member states hard for openness.
- mr president, honourable members, the legislative proposal which is presented to you here today will make a real difference in combating illegal shipments of waste.
as a result, environmental and human health in third countries where european waste currently ends up will be better protected.
member states and the european economy will also benefit from reducing illegal waste exports through cost savings, improved access to high quality raw materials and establishment of a level playing field for economic operators.
finally, this is not my last speech during this parliamentary term, but it is my last speech on the point for which, basically, i am responsible, so i would like to thank all the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety for the work done, for the trust we have established amongst ourselves, for the dedication you have shown.
i think with some of you, we have become real true friends, true supporters of the efforts for the common good, so i wish you all every success in the next election campaign, because europe desperately needs not only supporters of europe, but also supporters of care for the environment.
- a few weeks ago, the european environment agency in copenhagen published a study on waste, and that study tells us that an ambitious european waste policy could create 860,000 new jobs by 2030 and also reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 415 million tonnes.
that is four times the total emissions of the belgian economy.
you were a good environment commissioner, you have been a commissioner for ten years now.
the maximum period of 18 months of detention, for example, should be renewable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the resolution also sets out interesting paths for both economies to follow, such as trade opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises through the financing of local renewable energy projects and trade in environmental goods and technologies.
so, mr president, we are counting on you to reaffirm your country's commitment to europe, to relaunch the european project and the project as envisaged by altiero spinelli and to restore to italy, in the good tradition of romano prodi, a central role as a motor of european integration and not to waste time, as berlusconi did when he lost ten years speaking at the european council on women and football: that is not important, i think, in europe.
i believe that there is no opposition between austerity, which is needed for sustainable growth in the medium and long term, and, at the same time, a strategy for growth in the future.
we have, for the first time, to be intelligent, and not to think in old schemes, or that it is by deficit spending by making new debts at national level that you can create sustainable growth.
we need to use a new package a delors package in the new sectors of digital and investment in energy to have this growth.
we don't have it in a number of crucial sectors not in digital, telecommunication, energy or capital markets for the moment.
let us use the european union as an engine of growth, as the engine to emerge from the crisis, and not believe any longer in the old style of deficit spending programs at national level that are not sustainable, because the market will never accept them if countries are making new debt by simply increasing interest rates.
what we need is to invest massively in future bonds, in the future infrastructure of the european union, in digital, in energy, in the capital markets – that is what we need.
you are lucky because in the next six months, you will be able to demonstrate to us that you exercise with the same talent, the same passion and the same energy the ministry of action!
to make binding - this is already partly true - environmental objectives?
the question is now being asked - yannick jadot said it - of binding targets for energy efficiency, co2 reduction and renewable energy.
the democratic deficit, the social deficit, the environmental deficit: there is a lot of work to be done if you want to change economic governance!
in terms of taxation, there is no sustainable public finances without responsible expenditure, but neither is there sustainable revenue.
energy and climate: what energy union?
will you choose donald tusk's formula, which is to set up a joint purchasing power station to buy our gas from russia, or will you make the energy union a project whose objective is independence from the european union through the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency?
it is a matter of strategy, a matter of climate and a matter of employment.
if you are a president who is considered a socialist - i do not know whether the democratic party is a socialist party, but whatever - will you bring forward this european unemployment insurance project, which your colleague is pushing with all his energy, before the end of his term in the european commission?
we hear you have a lot of energy left, and we'd like to see the results.
my friends, when the climate is so unstable that we could envisage a global temperature increase of more than 6 degrees, when 30% of the planet's non-renewable resources have been used up in the last 30 years, when a third of the species still alive are threatened with extinction by 2050, it is the very existence of our societies that is threatened.
because there is no sustainable public finances without controlled spending, nor without sustainable revenues.
so let us start by introducing minimum wages and incomes throughout the european union and by abolishing this initiative which many of you here like, called refit, which, under the guise of involvement and elimination of bureaucracy, aims to reduce our social and environmental standards, and all this without an american treaty.
will you be the man of an energy union which is not just a gas buying union but which is really the instrument of an industrial policy which, through renewables, energy efficiency and the networking of our energy distribution networks, will make europe the world champion in the greening of the economy?
whatever happens and whatever the outcome of the vote, mr juncker, you should know that whenever your commission puts before this house proposals that respond to the challenges of our time, that want to make europe again an area of shared prosperity, an area of sustainable prosperity and a democratic area, we will stand by you.
the benefit is not even sure that it exists but even assuming that it exists, who pays the cost in terms of reducing environmental, social and health standards?
our health, social and environmental standards are not negotiable, you said, mr de gucht.
secondly, the defence of social, environmental and health standards and, above all, the guarantee for us, the states as europe, but also as member states, to be able to continue to make regulations in the interests of our fellow citizens.
the belgian socialists have set a number of benchmarks from the outset, namely: the transparency of the negotiations; the maintenance of social, environmental and health standards; the exclusion of the mechanism which prevents a state from regulating under penalty of being attacked by an investor in a private jurisdiction (rdie); a prior european regulation on data protection which must be respected by the agreement; the protection of public services and the exclusion from the agreement of sectors such as health or culture, etc.
however, a few remarks must be made about the sustainability of this convergence.
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues of the majority - a majority which we have seen at work here on the nomination of the president of this parliament and also of the president of the commission - i am taking part in this debate on youth unemployment to speak against you, to point out to you that the co2 emissions of your unity thinking are, among other things, youth unemployment.
the european union can and must first of all facilitate growth and jobs by encouraging the necessary structural labour market reforms and creating a good business and investment climate.
parliament also called on the council to impose new economic, financial and energy sanctions on russia and a collective arms embargo on the country.
it is also important to include social and environmental clauses which are also binding in trade agreements.
i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, to the exclusion of the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party.
a fact diverse on the scientific work that we know that climate change is not something that is going to happen, but that we are in the middle of.
the commission has already said that the climate conference in lima is an important first step.
the last five years have been particularly difficult in the climate field and have seen particularly poor progress, including in the european union.
i hope, i hope, commissioner, that you will succeed in ensuring that at the last council of this and your term of office, the council does take responsibility for the 2030 climate package and ensures that we as europe do incorporate these climate objectives into our own legislation: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the requirements of the treaty.
it's clear that the climate summit in new york next week offers us an excellent new opportunity to build a global coalition to tackle that warming.
the key is that we go for a robust and predictable carbon price that gives our companies and governments effective incentives to actually turn those climate efforts into a real opportunity.
is it really possible to preserve european standards in health, social and environmental matters?
we are not going to be able to do that because we share your desire to invest, but we must invest to make europe the most energy-efficient continent, the most resource-efficient continent, and this is a complete transformation of our economy.
you will have to debate binding climate targets, energy efficiency targets, resource efficiency targets with the commission and the council.
simply because when you invest, when you try to position yourself at the forefront of innovation, and here particularly in the energy field, well you put yourself in a position to create value but also competitively you are ahead of other areas of the planet.
this means that when we inevitably have to reduce our energy or resource consumption, i would prefer europe to sell its solutions abroad rather than europe having to buy the solutions and the technology that goes with it from china, brazil or the united states.
i believe that sustainable growth and a recovery in economic activity require, among other things, massive and controlled public investment.
in other words, just returning to the status quo ante, the situation as it was before the ceasefire was – let us say – interrupted, offers no solution and does not offer a solution to a sustainable new situation.
the government is becoming more repressive and the political climate is deplorable.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
mr katainen has made a good point on completion of the single market, but also completion of the capital market, of the energy union and of the digital market will be a high priority for the next commission.
it is essential to help our workers, to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term.
the first was to respond to the crisis, on the one hand, mainly through the troika and, on the other, by reviewing the economic governance of the european union, with modes of action that are at once deaf to inequalities, completely insensitive to ecological challenges and completely blind to the requirement of democratic legitimacy, all while placing the rights of creditors at the top.
you also chose not to bet on the european union regaining its competitiveness and its capacity to create value by deliberately choosing to be the continent on the planet that becomes the world champion in resource and energy conservation, the only way for us to conquer our strategic autonomy but also our competitiveness in a sustainable way.
i mean if we want to balance a primarily renewables-driven energy mix, we need conventional gas; that is one thing.
but would you not agree, when you talk about cheap energy, that if you want to transition our energy mix from where it is today to where it needs to be, that requires investment, and while you invest, that increases your costs temporarily.
so back to you, as a financial person: how do you manage the financial transition to make sure that you can afford the investments now to get to cheap energy tomorrow?
for the greens/efa group mr president, i must be a very naive or a little bit optimistic on the edges from time to time, but i remember that in march 2011, after the fukushima disaster, the very pro-nuclear chancellor merkel said to herself: "you know, the energy transition is an environmental requirement and an economic opportunity for germany".
i thought that after the ukraine crisis, all european leaders would have come to the conclusion that this is not only an environmental requirement and an economic opportunity, but also a strategic imperative.
we had binding targets for co2 reductions and for the share of renewable energy, and we are meeting them.
we had a non-binding target for energy efficiency.
this is an environmental requirement, i would remind you.
climate change is already affecting the european union; it is not just the pacific ocean, but also italy or france.
so it's an environmental requirement.
of course, this is also a geostrategic requirement if we are to achieve energy independence.
if we want to be independent, we have to turn to renewable energy.
as i said to josé manuel barroso, if europe wants to have something to offer in the world of the 21st century, if it wants to be one step ahead not only in terms of technology but also in terms of business model and social organization, it must achieve an energy revolution.
the energy transition project is first and foremost an industrial project.
this is a real problem and it is true that during the investment phase of the energy transition we have a rise in the cost of energy which, indeed, affects the weakest.
one way must be used in any case: progressive energy pricing, i.e.
energy pricing which favours the poorest households fiscally .
this would eliminate the impact of the energy transition on these people, but it also means that we are raising the price of energy for those households who can afford it.
the second part is based on the long-term financing of the energy transition, which will allow savings in the future.
there are enough financiers in this house to answer this question: how can we anticipate the benefits of the energy transition and use those anticipated benefits to finance the transition?
and let's hope they make decisions on energy and climate, the 2030 energy climate package.
you know them: the 40% reduction in co2 emissions, the 40% energy efficiency and the renewable energy.
and on friday in the council - we heard that - about half the member states would be prepared to reduce emissions by at least 40%.
oxfam recently calculated -- and this is a very important source -- that a target of 40 percent energy efficiency, 40 percent energy efficiency, would save every household, every household in the european union, 300 euros.
so to say that there is a contradiction between energy efficiency and clear objectives, and the future, is not true at all.
many speakers paid attention to climate and energy policy, which is an extremely important thing for europe but also for the rest of the world.
but, if i just mention that this area is, if i should mention one, probably one of the biggest source of competitiveness – if we just manage to deal with climate policy and energy policy together and the most effective way.
first or all there is an endless demand for clean technology solutions; there is also endless demand for non-food biofuels, renewables and, if we manage to regulate right things instead of wrong things, we could create incentives for the private sector to innovate and create new solutions to save energy, but also produce cleaner energy and cheaper energy.
so, at the end of the day, here in europe we would have better energy for a better price and also technology to sell to other parts of the world.
so, basically, as commissioner-designate cañete said in his hearings, we need a better energy market, fewer subsidies but a more unified market and we need better energy connections in order to allow energy to flow across the borders in order to maximise the efficiency of energy production.
i would just like to stop here and say that i will pass these messages from the members on to the current president of the commission, and i am sure we can come back to the industrial renaissance, which is very important for the speaker of the parliament who is the father of this concept in europe, and it is also one part of the climate and energy policy with which we are going to deal in the next commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have listened carefully to the debate which we had before the council of 23 and 24 december, particularly with regard not only to the energy dossier, which will be the focus of the assessments of almost all the people, almost all the honourable members who have spoken.
the various aspects that are connected have been taken into account and emphasized, those of energy security in the strict sense, competitiveness, innovation and growth linked to the energy issue, as well as the environment and climate and geopolitical issues linked to supply.
tomorrow, the proposals for the european energy and climate policy for 2030 will be on the table for nine months.
if we are to win the fight against global warming, we must step up our efforts.
it is essential that europe sends this signal now, in the run-up to the un climate conference in paris next year.
there is an urgent need for a new global climate agreement.
the ets must remain the cornerstone of our climate policy, but we must do so by strengthening it substantially in the short term so that it can provide effective incentives for our companies to continue to invest in energy-saving and therefore climate-friendly innovation.
and that we do this in a way that doesn't lead to carbon leakage is in the best interest of our companies and the climate.
climate and economy, even for energy-intensive businesses, need not be enemies of each other.
an agreement on the 2014 amending budget is therefore both an urgent necessity and a prerequisite for the adoption of a sustainable 2015 budget.
close to one trillion is lacking in investment – private mainly – in our infrastructure, in digital, in the energy grid, in transport and in innovation.
we need a new way forward in the integration of the european union, in digital, in energy, in innovation and in our capital markets, which are not unified at the moment.
that is why it was so important to put sustainable development at the highest level, with one of the most important commissioners on your own .
sustainable development is about investing in the right place at the right time.
in other words, the 2030 energy package, in other words, the lisbon strategy; these are important tools for investing in sustainability.
secondly, mr juncker, sustainability is not just about ecology, it is also about people.
that's for our sustainable development.
in the first place, the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
let us immediately start work on these renewable energy networks, on an ambitious digital new deal, on a massive injection of oxygen into innovative industry so that people associate europe with a hopeful future.
in the case of the netherlands, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
we want to be constructive and work with the new commission on priorities such as completing monetary union, deepening the internal market, increasing energy security and creating jobs.
this public investment can, for example, make it possible to create industrial zones and motorways, but also to implement an energy development plan that we are so lacking.
in the new post-crisis context in which europe finds itself, we need to revive growth, by achieving the europe 2020 targets for jobs, r&d, sustainable energy, education and poverty reduction.
during his commission term, mr juncker has put the candidates in the most toxic places for them (a speculator mr hill in market regulation, an oil tycoon in climate and energy, etc.)
he himself mentioned the error rates in the rural development, environment, fisheries and health sectors: the commission if the member states had acted, this could have been reduced to 2%.
this dumping endangers the lives of businesses and creates a climate of mistrust among wage-earners, while fuelling the rejection of the european project.
in addition, the various projects financed under peace helped to foster an environment in which political agreements had a reasonable chance of success.
these tensions highlight the economic, political and geostrategic importance of the new energy situation (the discovery of mainly gas deposits) in the eastern mediterranean.
europe, worried about its energy dependence on russia since the ukraine crisis and the nabucco gas pipeline project, sees gas from the eastern mediterranean as an attractive alternative resource.
– mr president, personally i think that we should not waste too many words on this motion.
sustainable development for our planet will not happen in a world where half of humanity still suffers from gross inequalities.
they have thus created several thousand sustainable jobs, particularly in regions considered to be lagging behind in development.
the ecopole, as it is called, is a unique economic activity park in europe focused on sustainable development techniques.
a strategy which the presidency also wants to make greener, more ecological.
i remind you that we opened our presidency semester by bringing together, for the first time, the ministers of the environment and the ministers of labour, because we believe that green jobs are what has been missing so far in the europe 2020 strategy and we are convinced that by integrating these processes much more we will be more effective and we can achieve better results of which we can be much more satisfied than we are today in the light of what we have not been able to do.
we are only a few months away from the deadline for the millennium development goals (mdgs) adopted by the united nations in 2000. despite progress in the eight priority areas of action, there is still a long way to go and many challenges to be met: human rights violations, violence against women, conflict, terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, lack of access to clean water, etc.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's policy on the environment is not distorted.
the reforms to ensure the sustainability of our systems are basic but must be balanced by other measures to strengthen solidarity.
we need to move beyond the automation of certain decisions in order to develop a genuine framework for smart, sustainable, inclusive and job-creating growth.
the second thing: i think that this programme needs to have a second part, which is opening our markets, liberalising our markets, unifying our markets in digital, in energy.
it is nonsense, naturally, to make an energy interconnection between spain and france if at the same time there is regulation in france that does not allow the use of this energy coming from spain – then this energy grid interconnection does not mean anything.
it is therefore about the ecological transformation of our infrastructure, the restoration of our natural resources, social cohesion, education, training and research.
we say that we must redirect these subsidies towards subsidies for useful investment which will enable us to make the ecological transition and free europe from a daily bill of one billion euros for vladimir putin and the arab sheiks.
to prepare the european union for the future, a radical choice must be made for the transition to a sustainable economy.
with the vague priorities set out in the investment plan, this sustainable transition will not be initiated.
and that may be an anecdote to some, but it's an important fact in addition to the scientific facts that we know: climate change is happening, the effects are already building up.
in this context, the 20th climate conference in lima is important.
this should give us the energy to take on our own responsibility in a lasting way.
i repeat them again: 40% for greenhouse gas emissions, 40% for energy efficiency, 30% for renewable energy.
the investment plan of the juncker commission which we have discussed here this morning is perfectly compatible with what we are all advocating here, such as energy efficiency, renewable energy and also the limitation of harmful emissions.
we must do two things in the short term: first, and this is very topical, is the reform of our emissions trading system.
that is the way to prevent the carbon price from collapsing further and indeed the whole ets system from collapsing.
secondly, we need a forward-looking, smart strategy for our energy-intensive industry.
we must reward investment in energy efficiency and also investment in low emissions by giving incentives.
with such a balanced package, both the ets reform and the positive measures for energy-intensive industry, we can secure and sustain our industrial ambitions and at the same time go to the crucial summits in lima and paris with an ambitious climate package.
- the united nations climate conference in lima in early december 2014 is to prepare key objectives for the 2015 world climate conference in paris.
a global and binding agreement on climate action was to be concluded in paris next year.
the priority objective in this context is to limit global warming to less than two degrees.
clear targets for reducing greenhouse gases by 2050 should, among other things, help the economy - and in particular energy-intensive businesses - to adjust to the limit values in the long term.
in this resolution, parliament also reminds member states of their commitment to provide usd 100 billion annually for the global climate fund by 2020. this resolution is welcome, as we need clear, comprehensible and reliable global targets to take effective action on climate change.
climate change is an unprecedented threat to the future of our planet.
in developing countries, climate change has already made several thousand "refugees" and caused recurrent food crises, internal tensions and even conflict.
the annual climate conference (cop20) in lima next month is a decisive step.
it will be an opportunity for the european union to hold international partners and member states to account and to set the stage for cop21, where a binding global climate agreement should be adopted.
europe must position itself as a leader in the fight against climate change and in defending the interests of developing countries.
- the next un climate change conference will be held in lima, peru from 1 to 12 december 2014. at that meeting, i voted in favour of a resolution calling for a relaunch of the eu's climate policy and for a swift agreement on ambitious and binding targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources.
i also reiterated my wish for an ambitious and legally binding international agreement on climate action beyond 2020, which meets the challenge of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees.
i also voted for the urgent strengthening and expansion of current measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and beyond, and for increased resources from developed countries to finance mitigation and adaptation, technology development and transfer, and capacity building in developing countries, in line with the establishment of the green climate fund.
this year's climate change conference in lima needs to set out the main elements of the 2015 global climate agreement which shall include commitments to fight climate change by all countries in order to stay within the below 2°c objective.
it is therefore crucial to provide clarity on how to scale up the mobilisation of climate finance in order to achieve the joint goal of usd 100 billion per year by 2020 - a goal which has already been agreed in copenhagen.
the implementation of the programmes must start as soon as possible so as not to hinder investment in jobs, growth, renewable energy and cross-border projects.
- we stress that refit cannot be used as a pretext for lowering the level of ambition on issues of vital importance to the safety and wellbeing of employees, or on the protection of the environment.
we call on the commission not to lower its level of ambition and call for public policy objectives including environmental, social, and health and safety standards not to be jeopardised.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
cites regulates international trade so that it can be conducted in a sustainable way, with a view to human needs and the economy.
the eu has previously acceded to other international environmental conventions such as the bonn convention, the cartagena protocol and the nagoya protocol.
the only sensitive point is whether this dossier should have a dual legal basis (environment and trade).
the fuel quality directive obliges manufacturers to reduce the greenhouse intensity of transport fuels by 6% by 2020. this greenhouse intensity also reflects the polluting factor of the production of transport fuels.
it is therefore contrary to its own impact assessment and to the european objectives to reduce co2 emissions.
the fuel equalisation distorts the progress we would make in reducing greenhouse gas emissions in transport.
so an apparent decrease could actually be an increase because of climate-damaging production.
it is particularly cynical that, in the wake of the lima climate summit and in the run-up to the paris summit in 2015, europe is throwing its leadership role in the fight against climate change into the wind.
we do not think that this is a good thing and therefore budgetary discipline must be complemented by fiscal convergence and also by the setting of binding social and environmental objectives.
when you, as a government, are required to balance your budgets but also to reduce poverty and your ecological footprint, it leads you to make budgetary adjustments of a different nature than those we see today.
we believe that the six-month period should rather be used as an instrument of cooperation between member states to enable an upward convergence of our social, environmental and democratic standards.
having a common currency without common fiscal, social and environmental policy is not working.
in addition, this accession also ensures that the eu can pursue its environmental policy objectives fully.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known as 'accompanying and horizontal policies'.
the eu is very concerned about the economic and social development of these regions, which suffer from the marginalization linked to their geographical specificities such as remoteness, insularity, difficult terrain and climate, dependence on a few local products, etc.
it is therefore essential to support our workers and to ensure that they have stable and sustainable jobs in the long term.
the european union is thus keeping its promise to combine economic growth and solidarity by allocating 25 million euros to help the airline out of its uncertain economic environment.
we also think - and i did not hear this in your speech or in that of mr timmermans - that, contrary to what was heard this morning in plenary, the economic governance package must be revised to make the social objectives of reducing poverty and inequality and the environmental objectives as binding as the budgetary objectives.
the budgetary choices that governments make will thus be choices that reduce inequalities and our ecological footprint, rather than making them worse.
the second is environmental sustainability.
i keep hearing from the council, from parliament and from the commission that the ecological transition of the economy is a burden.
yet for europeans, it is both a requirement - we continue to depend on the outside for our energy - and an opportunity!
you said some interesting things about the "waste" package, and i'm taking note.
finally, as regards refit, it is a device used, including by a majority of this house - i am a democrat, so i recognize it - to continually weaken the social and environmental protection measures we need if we are to lead, especially the most fragile among us, a decent life.
i am an active waste recycler myself, for example, and i have always supported flemish initiatives in this direction as much as possible as an active citizen and also as a politician.
the energy you put into a coercive system towards countries that are unwilling or unable to follow will lead to misunderstanding and cost more money than anything else.
since the commission was set up some time ago, when it comes to environmental legislation, it is as if it were a tedious piece of legislation that stands in the way of business, of people, as if it were red tape.
we tried in lima - with difficulty, of course, and you know the outcome - to make progress on the global scale in the fight against global warming.
the ambitious objectives on the circular economy and air quality must not be lowered and the proposals must be in place by 2015 so that this parliament and the council can get to work to make sure that our economy is also becoming truly more sustainable.
the third and most important objective was to agree with the other two institutions on the urgency of implementing a plan to reduce the amount of unpaid invoices to a sustainable level.
next thing, take the decision finally to launch the energy community.
let us use criteria, criteria that have to do with sustainability and jobs, and let us prepare for the future.
many have said it before, but let's do it anyway: investing in the digital agenda, human capital and the energy union.
we must nevertheless remain vigilant about the human aspect and ensure that the social and environmental aspects of such agreements are guaranteed.
a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption.
a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption.
the economic, social and environmental damage caused by these disasters cannot go unaddressed.
the aim is to reduce the carbon content of road transport fuels by 6% by 2020. the commission is convinced that this objective will be achieved on the basis of the text before it.
the n-va therefore voted against the objection of the environment committee and thus supported the proposal of the european commission.
the best is the enemy of the good: this is how one could sum up the attempt by some meps in the environment committee to change the calculation method to reduce co2 emissions in transport.
for at least three reasons:- it is risky to distinguish co2 emissions according to the origin of the oil used to manufacture fuels;- the calculation method proposed by the commission meets the target of reducing co2 emissions from transport by 6% by 2020. and the argument of european energy security is important.
europe needs to ensure secure energy supply channels.
i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to withdraw its proposal for a council directive and to submit a new proposal based on the requirement to report emissions according to default average values of greenhouse gas (ghg) emission intensity, broken down by types of feedstock for petrol and diesel fuel, while allowing suppliers to report actual values.
the commission's text seemed to me to be too weak and unacceptable because, moreover, the proposed method for calculating the carbon intensity of the different types of road fuels did not encourage cleaner fuels and put the extremely polluting tar sands and conventional crude oil on the same footing.
i also felt that the method of calculating ghg emissions from fuels and other forms of energy from non-biological sources should be further studied to take account of the expected increase in the use of fuels with high ghg emission intensity and fuels derived from other commodities in the future.
i have also added a broader question on zero-waste and its implementation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
three quarters of the costs of producing steel come from energy and raw materials.
it is therefore essential to support r&d as well as investments to improve energy and material efficiency in this sector.
i voted in favour of this text, which stresses the importance of an industrial policy and intelligent regulation, together with measures to boost the competitiveness of european industry in a world market and to guarantee conditions which are truly equal for all economic agents, in order to protect european production against social and environmental dumping.
i further requested the commission to establish, in close cooperation with relevant un bodies, ngos and the government of the philippines, a roadmap on human rights and the environment, including fisheries practices, to set targets that the philippines will need to achieve in 2015 in order to be able to apply for gsp+ status by 2016.
in writing.
we cannot continue to accept trade agreements or preferential tariffs with countries which do not respect human rights or social and environmental rights simply because we have always done so!
reforms are planned in the following areas: public governance, justice, law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial and social development, social protection, education, youth and culture.
for its part, having adapted to european requirements in terms of laws, standards and values, georgia will not only see its political environment shifting more and more towards a democratic state based on the rule of law, but also gain access to the european market and thereby strengthen its economy.
reforms are planned in the following areas: public governance, justice, law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial and social development, social protection, education, youth and culture.