the technology for carbon capture is a progressive technology and may be required in the context of the european union's objectives to develop a low-carbon economy.
the commission also notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the price of electricity from renewable sources is higher than the price of electricity from renewable sources.
it is, of course, important to consider other influences besides the economic and environmental positives.
various geological structures and potential carbon dioxide storage sites need serious mapping and research to provide security and minimise the risks this technology brings.
in preparing these strategies, the following challenges are identified, especially in relation to the new eastern european member states, which need additional investments in r&d and research infrastructure: first, identifying the 'competitive advantages' of innovation in close cooperation with business/smes as a source of future entrepreneurs and a key driver for innovation in the market; second, the creation of sustainable networks and partnerships of universities, research centres and business representatives from the new member states with leading european research centres to build the necessary capacity and research infrastructure.
− i voted in favour of the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to set the conditions for achieving the target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by 2020, as i believe that reducing co2 emissions from light vehicles will lead to positive results in our fight for a greener environment.
− i voted 'abstention' on the report on the development and deployment of carbon capture and storage technologies in europe, not because i disagree with the rapporteur's arguments or the process technology.
for me, as a bulgarian mep, it sounds unthinkable that we as eu members should be expected to support the project financially or to develop an indicative strategy explaining how to achieve the co2 reduction targets by 2050. i'm not a pessimist, i'm a realist, and i can say that bulgaria is currently facing the difficult task of solving so many serious, vital problems that carbon capture and storage technologies are not among the priorities.
i appreciate the potential of carbon capture and storage technologies and hope that they will soon become a priority for our country as well.
i am therefore pleased that the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has taken the initiative to present a report setting out the relevant factors contributing to the fraud that has occurred, as well as possible solutions to it.
− i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important to ensure responsible and sustainable long-term funding of social security systems, especially in times of economic crisis.
− i voted in favour of the proposal for specific measures on plastic waste in eu legislation in relation to more consistent and strict application of the legislation on plastic waste.
i believe it is important to harmonise the collection, sorting and overall management of waste across the eu in order to create a level playing field in line with the waste hierarchy, including removing technical, regulatory, administrative and financial barriers to recycling.
i disagreed with the first part that energy recovery of plastic waste should be used when all other options have been exhausted.
i also voted against the introduction of a european plastic waste day, on which citizens can return any amount of plastic waste to pre-determined points in exchange for appropriate monetary compensation.
− i voted in favour of the report on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment.
the situation of plastic waste is serious, not least because of its substantial differences from the rest of the materials contained in waste streams.
the lack of a sufficiently comprehensive focus in the waste framework directive raises problems both in ensuring collection and treatment and in implementing a single targeted approach at european union level.
in view of the huge flows of plastic waste, finding a targeted solution, in line with existing regulatory mechanisms, and options for exploiting this huge material resource is of paramount importance.
i strongly support the efforts to develop a strategy for plastic waste, setting specific targets and defining an approach to their implementation.
such a strategy should take into account the specificities of plastics as a material and the treatment process of the generated waste, which is not only managerial but also technological.
i draw attention to the key role of each member state in addressing plastic waste problems by adopting and implementing the necessary legislation.
− i am happy that we managed to reach an ambitious agreement on priorities for the plastic waste strategy for europe, and that parliament has supported that.
this proposal sends a strong signal to all actors along the value chain about the direction in which europe should move, creating impetus for policies, practices and consumer behaviour based on the principle of waste as a valuable resource.
i am confident that this will push europe to innovate further in the field of recycling and waste management at all levels and will promote research and the development of more sustainable modern technologies, materials and products.
in this manner we also send a strong signal to the international community as regards dealing with plastic waste, and we will contribute significantly to eliminating toxic and hazardous plastic waste from the environment and to protecting human health.
this instrument is essential for liberalisation and access to external markets, given the current challenges arising from changing balances in the global market environment.
new technologies can lay the foundations for a modern industrial revolution based on green energy, clean transport, new production methods and new materials and intelligent communication systems.
they all provide huge opportunities for innovation and for developing a cleaner and more sustainable future for europe and for turning the crisis into an opportunity for innovative solutions and economic progress.
in response to the societal challenges we face, we need a unified european approach that integrates more sustainable and efficient production and consumption models, and that should be at the heart not only of our industrial strategy but also of our thinking and our way of life.
more efficient and sustainable use of resources throughout the chain and greater energy efficiency is a winning strategy, both for the environment and for our economies in the long term.
i very much welcome mr buttikofer's report, i support his vision of how to achieve the goals of a sustainable and competitive economy.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the two priority axes of the greek presidency on: 1) creating growth, jobs and cohesion and 2) migration, border management and mobility, removing labour barriers to mobility, which contributes to sustainable economic growth in the internal market.
first, the introduction of the criterion for selecting the 'most economically advantageous tender' instead of the lowest price tender requires that the choice be made constructively on a complex set of economic, social and environmental criteria.
- i voted in favour of the commission's proposal for a directive on the award of public contracts in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, as it introduces clear and transparent criteria for public contracts in these very important sectors.
in short, the apostille and the other formalities force citizens and companies to waste time and to spend money, simply because they are moving across an internal border in the single market.
i and the party i represent, the national front for the salvation of bulgaria, want legislation to be close to the people and to solve their problems, and the commission is not achieving quality results in the fight to protect fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
the judicial system does not protect fundamental rights, environmental protection is something unknown to the last bulgarian governments.
third, strengthening the capacity of national parliaments, including through various forms of exchange of good practices, and building institutional continuity to ensure the sustainability of the mechanism.
mr president, there is little doubt about the future of renewable energy.
unfortunately, the existing energy infrastructure implies the development of concentrated large renewable energy sources, which raises regulatory and system security issues as well as the need for fast-track replacement capacity.
on the other hand, the renewable energy (res) sector is characterised by decentralised production, which requires smart grids and management.
further development and integration of distributed generation from renewable energy sources is possible mainly through the construction of local and regional smart electricity distribution networks.
i support the establishment of a minimum share of 20% of the european regional development fund for investments in energy transition, including smart grids, renewable energy generation and distribution, energy efficiency and energy savings.
mr president, the european union is undoubtedly a leading player in environmental policy and in the achievement of sustainable development.
the establishment of binding 2030 targets for emissions, energy efficiency, renewable sources is the necessary benchmark.
these measures must take account of the specificities of the member states, not endanger jobs, and ensure affordable energy prices.
only then can we have sustainable development.
it is agreements and political cooperation between the states of the region that will make sustainable progress possible.
bulgaria, as a member of the european union, is crucial to implementing the common european energy policy, which will remove the possibility for russia to exert economic and political pressure through energy projects.
bulgaria sees this common european energy policy as an important instrument to safeguard its national interests and at the same time as an opportunity to free its bilateral relations with russia from historical overlays.
it is still genital mutilation even if it is performed in a sterile environment by a doctor.
- mr. president, ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on the report on the 2030 climate and energy policy framework.
the european parliament confirmed the dominance of climate change policies over other industrial and energy policies.
of course, the eu has a historic duty to be at the forefront of the fight against climate change, but we must not forget that today our contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is only 11%.
we must therefore take account of the price we will pay for achieving the objectives of economic competitiveness, affordability and security of energy supply.
the adoption of three binding 2030 targets for emissions, renewable energy and energy efficiency is in fact a continuation of current policies, without taking into account the lessons learned from their implementation so far.
for example, the rapid increase in expensive renewables and the rise in the price of paid emission allowances lead to an inevitable increase in the price of energy and create problems for the competitiveness of the industry.
the eu has taken steps to better protect women with the package; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
the eu is slowly but surely emerging from recession and confidence in the euro is returning through steps towards sustainable growth based on financial stability.
how can the youth guarantee be transformed from a temporary measure into a sustainable instrument?
the youth guarantee risks providing only temporary, subsidised employment if parallel measures are not taken to develop the entrepreneurial spirit, skills and improve the business environment for young entrepreneurs.
it will destroy many indigenous varieties with proven qualities and sustainability at the expense of high yield newly selected varieties, but without the necessary taste qualities.
- i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on transport and tourism on the roadworthiness of commercial vehicles, as i believe it will help to improve road safety and the state of the environment by establishing minimum requirements for the roadside inspection regime for commercial vehicles travelling in the territory of the member states.
- i voted for this report because it is a step forward towards a more sustainable and competitive horticulture in europe.
- i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy on the 'copernicus' programme, as i believe it will help to establish 'copernicus', a union programme for earth observation and monitoring, by laying down the rules for its implementation.
i believe that the 'copernicus' programme is of great importance to users, as it builds on existing national and european capacities and ensures continuity with the activities carried out under the 'global monitoring for environment and security' programme.
overall, the prodi report presents developments under the 'copernicus' programme, which provides data and information from space and ground observations that contribute to environmental protection, civil protection and security, and ultimately to economic growth.
- i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy on the european gnss agency, as i believe it is of particular importance that eu classified information is handled and protected by all interested parties in accordance with the basic principles and minimum standards laid down in the commission and council's security rules.
it will contribute to the competitiveness of the european economy and to the long-term sustainable economic and social benefits for european citizens through this high-speed internet.
for its successful implementation, it is important to take account of the following aspects: the changed geopolitical environment puts the eu in the context of a dynamically changing world.
mr president, i congratulate mrs mcintyre on her report on the european business environment and the need to encourage entrepreneurship from an early age.
by their nature, these packages are produced on the 'waste-to-production' principle and some of them have a lifespan of a few minutes but a lifespan of hundreds of years.
today, they are not just waste, but a risk to the environment and human health.
is it russia or the countries that expect energy security from its construction, like bulgaria, hungary, slovenia, greece and italy?
mr. fule talks about a new energy security plan, but we've been waiting five years for this plan.
european foreign policy today determines the development of key regions and its character determines whether we will be able to save lives, guarantee peace, stability, sustainability for all generations to come.
i'm talking about the banking sector, the electricity sector, the fuel sector, where lukoil and overgaz impose prices that are unbearable for bulgarians, which are many times higher than european standards for the income-price ratio of fuel/energy, in agriculture, where small producers are suffocated and it even goes to political monopolies.
the european union's determination to set an example of a quality environmental policy is linked to the response to various challenges, one of which is the fight against illegal waste trafficking.
in 2006[nbsp ]the european union launched a targeted effort with the adoption of a regulation on shipments of waste, and today we must build on what has been achieved.
the aim today is to put an end to a number of unregulated practices and legislative loopholes, to enable member states to coordinate and harmonise their efforts to combat illegal waste trafficking, to protect the interests of society and business, and to contribute to a cleaner and more protected environment.
the link between the environment, conservation of resources, job creation and human health is obvious.
i will highlight some of the main achievements of this report: firstly, it highlights the problem of illegal shipment and treatment of waste as a factor threatening business and the environment, as well as public health.
as shadow rapporteur on behalf of the socialist and democratic group, i welcome the compromises reached with the council and believe that today's vote will provide a strong and sustainable legal framework, support for the economy and environmental policy.
regarding jobs and growth, the strategic agenda states – as the first priority – the need to fully exploit the potential of the single market by completing the internal market, yet article 3 of the treaty on european union directly links the establishment of the internal market with the sustainable development of europe, based on a highly competitive social market economy aiming at full employment and social progress.
mr president, prime minister, in the document ‘a fresh start for the european union’ written by you and mr gauze, you talk about initiatives which are needed to finance growth in areas, such as energy, which could benefit strongly from a more european approach.
moreover, you stated that the single market for energy needs to be achieved by europe-wide investments on interconnections and transmission grids.
in order to achieve sustained employability, we need to create jobs in the short term, but also create long-term high-quality jobs and a business environment that will enable employers to hire more people.
unfortunately, climate change is not just affecting south-east europe and the balkans.
i would like to further urge the commission to foster an environment that makes it easier, more affordable and simply more desirable for my young fellow citizens to keep on thinking about the next wave of digital innovation ‘made in europe’.
canada's energy and raw materials resources can be a useful alternative for europe.
in the context of what is happening on our eastern borders, i am convinced that we must also deepen the north atlantic partnership in the energy sector.
the role of the eu in this process is to create a fruitful enabling environment for developing the potential and realising the ideas of the new generation.
given the real danger of environmental and epidemiological problems, it was not only the people living in the flooded areas who were affected.
– i am a true believer that we should create the right environment for young people to develop their potential, to have a place where they can become entrepreneurs and create their own smes.
particular attention should be paid to the need to continue reforms in countries with negative demographic trends that threaten the sustainability of their health and pension systems.
common policies, better coordination and solidarity between member states: all this is necessary to meet the challenge of the energy union as well as that of our foreign policy.
given the highly competitive market environment in which most of them operate, even a small reduction in administrative burden could prove crucial for the development and expansion of their business.
they have significant job creation potential and play a crucial role in the transition to a new sustainable economy.
it is for this reason that i would like to emphasise the need to create a favourable environment for smes by ensuring easier access to credit, removing unnecessary administrative barriers and, of course, the need for their connectivity and internationalisation.
mr dombrovskis, you seem to have forgotten the first sentence of your own report, which states that the aim of the new mechanisms is to strengthen economic governance in order to achieve sustainable convergence, economic growth and jobs.
furthermore, the key question of this review is how far the new rules have contributed to the sustainable convergence of the economic development of the member states.
the commission work programme for 2015 is written in the same spirit as the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
smart, sustainable and inclusive growth means only one thing: special attention must be paid to the poorest regions in the eu, because their problems are spreading across the eu.
such measures may include a review of competition rules or aim at reducing energy costs in energy-intensive industries.
for example, the accelerated completion of the internal energy market would ensure competitive energy prices.
i supported the recommendation for a draft council decision on the conclusion of the eu-ec association agreement on nuclear energy and their member states and georgia, as i agree with the arguments put forward by the rapporteur that this agreement is one of the most ambitious in the field of free trade.