the main objective of the new regulation was to put the empowered consumer at the heart of the single market in order to ensure that citizens of the european union can reap the full benefits of the single market, ultimately leading to sustainable growth.
- by reducing the co2 emissions for passenger cars, the eu shows its strong commitment to improving fuel economy as well as saving the environment, by emitting less harmful gases into the atmosphere.
the eu target for car emissions by the year 2020 is very ambitious, as it aims to reduce co2 levels to 95g/km per passenger car, which means an outstanding reduction of current emissions by approximately 60%.
harmonisation of rules on the making, the availability and the use of biocidal products was essential to provide a high level of protection for both human and animal health and the environment.
moreover the regulation combined a high level of health and environmental protection, and clear rules for manufacturers to promote competitiveness and innovation.
- strengthening the role and the position of parliament in the formulation of economic priorities and the overall european semester process is very important in order to secure democratic scrutiny of the economic policy guidance, put more emphasis on the need to tackle the social consequences of the economic crisis and provide sustainable and inclusive growth solutions that would promote quality employment and raise social standards in line with the europe 2020 strategy and the eu’s priorities.
- plant breeding is significantly important for productivity, diversity, health, quality of agriculture, food production and the environment.
it is vital therefore, to have an effective and competitive plant-breeding sector capable of responding and adapting to present and future challenges and demands, and environmental and climatic changes.
investment in these sustainable modes of transport will benefit the environment and the economy and will promote growth and employment.
it is therefore crucial to increase efficiency in rail passenger transport by establishing multimodal and sustainable urban transport plans that will take into account quality and safety standards, passenger rights, social and employment conditions, accessibility for persons with disabilities, transport efficiency criteria, social tariffs, policy and environmental objectives.
the above can be achieved by: • clarifying existing rules • simplifying the long and costly authorisations for rolling stock, energy and infrastructures • ensuring vehicles interoperability on the eu through a european vehicle authorisation to be granted by the european railways agency (era)and • by creating a european register.
the programme must address the physical and mental health, health inequalities as well as environmental and lifestyle factors.
furthermore, the report focuses on the problem mainly in terms of the prestige of the financial sector, ignoring that the inherent functioning of this sector, together with the free movement of capital, touted as a fundamental eu principle, are crucial elements in creating an environment conducive to the problem and to money laundering.
i voted in favour of this year's report because it is an objective annual assessment of the eib's action, governance, compliance and cooperation with other international financial institutions, while calling on the bank to modernise its climate change strategy before 2015.
in writing.
it calls for the opening of chapter 15 on energy, ignoring turkish threats and the presence of turkish ships imbros and barbaros in the cypriot eez.
- fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) are among the most hazardous emissions with a potential to cause global warming exceeding, by up to 23[nbsp ]000 times higher, that of carbon dioxide (co2).
it is estimated that by 2050 they could amount for 8% of the global greenhouse gas emissions and therefore the eu, the g20, the us and china support limits in their use and the use of hydrofluoric carbon (hfc) in particular.
new innovative green technologies will eventually replace their use, as sustainable alternatives that are not only compatible with the montreal protocol but also relatively cheap for small companies to produce.
we welcome the trilogue agreement for imposing bans and limitations in order to fast forward the development of new environment-friendly products.
- copernicus is proposed to be the successor of the european earth observation programme gmes (global monitoring for environment and security) which was first developed as part of the framework programme for research and technological development and then established as of 2010 as an operational programme in the field of space policy.
its main purpose is to provide data and information stemming from space-borne and in-situ observations which contribute to the protection of the environment, to civil protection and to security – and ultimately to economic growth.
copernicus earth observation will bring benefits to the environment, security and jobs, as it will help to organise city planning and agriculture in a more efficient way.
- on the 27 november 2013, the environment committee approved the second reading for the regulation concerning the sound level of motor vehicles.
the union will thus update its ageing anti-cyber regulations with a 21st century framework, which will guarantee a safer environment for european citizens.
- the directive on alternative fuels infrastructure aims to reduce the eu's dependency on oil as well as to reduce the greenhouse emissions.
it will enforce all member states to submit national plans for alternative fuel infrastructure by mid-2016 and will encourage all sorts of industries all over the european union to seek for alternative solutions through research and development of new methods of sustainable growth.
- in an effort to improve cross-border circulation of longer and higher trucks, it is important to take into consideration environmental criteria as well.
this will more effectively ensure the competitiveness of the eu plant production sector in times of severe climate change which not only enables dangerous pests to survive in europe, but also to have detrimental effects on health and the european economy, in general.
job creation requires a welcoming environment to help entrepreneurs (create, 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' and the 'entrepreneurship 2020' strategy) as well as promoting the entrepreneurial spirit.
the regulatory framework of this institution, as established in 2006, expires in 2019. we agree with the new, realistic, compromise framework proposed because it attempts to streamline the selection process, to make infrastructure investment more sustainable, to seek access to additional sources of finance and to create the possibility of a city taking the lead in a regional proposal.
- plastic bags are a scourge on the environment, as they need hundreds of years for their dissolution.
but let me just focus on one point which also concerns the wider region of the south-eastern mediterranean: the issue of threats and the issue of maritime security, which is of course linked to energy and concerns the whole of the european union.
all these events could further hamper the european union’s security in general and its energy security in particular.
it is high time the european union’s energy supply was rethought.
it is time to seek safer energy routes from stable countries and partners.
i recall in this sense the vast energy forces in the eastern mediterranean.
the cold war climate in eu-russia relations affects us first and foremost, and that is why we must find a window of dialogue and cooperation with moscow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the need to strengthen energy security is primarily due to the fact that energy is a basic human good to which everyone must have equal access.
mr president, we are discussing energy security for the european union in the light of events such as those in ukraine and russia.
i am speaking as a member of the european parliament who is concerned about the interests of the european union and its energy security.
in the end, however, they kept the same portfolios, despite the harsh criticism and the negative climate against them.
on the basis of this law of the sea, which is part of the community acquis and international law, the republic of cyprus has agreed with all the neighbouring countries, egypt, lebanon and israel, to separate the exclusive economic zone for the purpose of natural gas, which offers the prospect of energy security in the european union.
we cannot vote in favour of the existing motion because it has been proposed by extreme right-wing forces which only want to take advantage of the climate that has been created around the scandal, without criticising the system junker represents.
to provide a safe environment for investment groups and monopolies.
a stance that says our resolutions will be the scapegoat for the waste basket.