− as about 40% of waste comes from packaging, it is appropriate to adapt the standards to the new production reality and bring them into line with the environmental obligations of other sectors while maintaining global competitiveness.
the introduction of the target of 75% recycled plastic by 2020, mandatory recyclability criteria and specific labelling to facilitate sorting for this purpose should trigger a debate and encourage the introduction of more modern and efficient waste management systems.
the funding of research and development into better methods of recycling, collection and sorting of waste should also contribute to ensuring that the set targets are met.
the types of plastics that do not fit into this model, the plastics that are most harmful to the environment and human health, such as oxide-degradable and microdegradable plastics and single-use plastics, should be phased out.
in today's vote on the report on a european strategy to tackle plastic waste in the environment, i took the same position as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
approximately 40% of plastic waste comes from packaging, mainly from single-use products, resulting in significant waste accumulation and adverse environmental impacts.
this waste destroys marine life and causes toxic reactions that release into ecosystems and thus into the food chain, such as carcinogens and mutagens, reproductive toxicants, nanoparticles, etc.
given that 95,5 billion plastic bags were placed on the eu market in 2010 alone, most of them single-use, i agree that plastic waste should be treated as a valuable resource.
i agree to encourage its reuse, recycling and processing, which in turn will promote a healthy environment.
one of the key points for discussion must be the discussion of energy systems.
whether it's power generation, the transmission grid, or the supply of energy resources like gas and oil.
i would therefore like to call on the greek presidency to give priority to energy, in particular to the subjects you have on your agenda.
further progress in the liberalisation of the internal energy market is absolutely essential today.
i am of course in favour of iceland joining the european union, but i think that we must respect the decision of the state in the democratic environment of the eu and give iceland the time it needs to take the next steps in its decision.
the rapporteur's report is what i would rather call 'smart regional use of local renewable resources'.
i do not agree with the rapporteur on the part of the report where she calls for more ambitious targets in climate protection.
písemná vysvětlení hlasování
mr president, i was looking forward to the 2030 framework with great anticipation and i believe that the economic policy of the european union should be that its soul is industrial and its clothes should be ecological and social.
i would like to say that none of the environmental goals that we have set for ourselves in recent years have been successful.
only economically and environmentally balanced fishing, with the right fishing practices, can help to preserve fisheries and the current stock of fish species in a sustainable way for future generations.
the massive movement of fish due to climate change is frequent and requires regular review of marine protected areas.
i am here to speak out for sustainable fishing and the preservation of the sector as a livelihood for the future and against the continuing mass fishing of our seas and oceans.
competition between carriers can only arise in a competitive environment.
the committees for the internal market and consumer protection, transport and tourism, industry, research and energy and civil liberties, justice and home affairs have supported the general line of mandatory ecall and have contributed, i firmly believe, to a balanced report with a clear message.
as you know, we have, for objective reasons, been lagging behind the other two pillars in the acquisition of the instruments for the interconnection of europe, energy and transport.
cohesion policy remains the main source of eu public funding in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and the new cohesion policy framework puts full emphasis on the need to focus investment at regional and local level on job creation, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, employment, especially youth employment, labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, sustainable transport, sustainable energy, environment and urban development.
it is important to take into account the significant needs of many less developed regions for investment in infrastructure projects in essential sectors such as transport, telecommunications and energy.
as shadow rapporteur of my group on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have had numerous discussions with experts, interest groups and the interested public on this proposal.
european union legislation on the production of plant reproductive material must facilitate and promote, not threaten, the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
that is why, in november last year, when this proposal was being discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i first suggested with a heavy heart that the proposal should be rejected, and on 30 january this year, as later in the committee on agriculture and rural development, i did so.
in fact, every regulation today can be justified in some noble way either by consumer protection or by environmental protection.
there was talk of climate policy.
the report on fluorinated greenhouse gases which has been presented is, in my view, one of the other important parts of the overall package of measures to improve the environment and preserve it for future generations.
it is essentially a continuation of the regulation of substances that deplete the ozone layer, the practical part of which began in 1987 with the adoption of the montreal protocol.
of course, we know that this would simplify the use of radio devices, such as mobile phones, tablets, etc., that it would reduce the amount of hazardous electrical waste, and that it should also lead to a reduction in costs.
estimating error rates is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
the next item is the report by peter liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community, in view of the implementation by 2020 of an international agreement applying a single global market-based measure to international aviation emissions (com(2013)0722 – c7-0374/2013 – 2013/0344(cod)) (a7-0079/2014).
- the ecr group is a long-standing strong supporter of the nuclear energy sector, which represents an indispensable low-carbon energy source for a significant number of eu member states.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the alternative fuels to reduce co2 emissions include, in addition to hydrogen and natural gas, electricity, according to the proposal.
natural gas, whether liquid or gaseous, contains methane hydrocarbons, so its use also carries co2 emissions.
at the same time, the combustion of methane at high temperatures inside engines produces nitrogen oxides, which are also among the gases that damage the environment.
therefore, only electricity and hydrogen used in hydrogen cells for electricity generation can be considered as clean energy.
the often cited benefits of very heavy trucks reduced fuel consumption and reduction of carbon dioxide and air pollutant emissions are thus questionable in the light of newly emerging transport modes.
some of the elements of this package, namely the waste framework regulation, have been completely rejected by this parliament.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety also delivered an opinion on the proposal.
several hundred amendments were tabled during the debate, both in the committee on agriculture and rural development and in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
while road transport suffers from congestion, which causes economic losses and damages the environment, the inland waterway network still holds great potential.
the measure adopted therefore aims to invest in environmental and innovation measures.
only then could europe respond to transport challenges such as congestion, environmental impact and energy needs.
- mr president, we are adopting the last of the ten technical directives of the harmonization package which will make it possible to bring safer products to the european market in a new, simplified and consistent legal environment.
in the case of the european union, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in line with the principles of the treaty on european union.
each year, about 100 billion plastic bags are used, and if no action is taken, the number is expected to rise to 111 billion by 2020. the excessive consumption of single-use plastic carrier bags is both a very inefficient use of resources and has negative environmental consequences.
every year, 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste, polluting the eu's environment, including the seas.
i am active in environmental organizations and try to prevent pollution as much as possible.
since environmental protection cannot be limited to education, legislative measures are also needed that lead directly to its protection.
protecting biodiversity by identifying harmful invasive species is, in my view, a significant step towards preserving the original fauna and flora for future generations.
the next item is the report by bart staes, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipment of waste (com(2013)0516 – c7-0217/2013 – 2013/0239(cod)) (a7-0069/2014).
we would also like to see that both parties respect each other’s right to regulate, including on the provision of public services, that fair competition rules are agreed to maintain a level playing field between foreign and domestic service providers – and especially state-owned enterprises, that strong provisions are agreed on transparency and dispute settlement to enhance legal predictability and certainty, that both parties are committed to the enforcement of intellectual property rights and sanitary and phytosanitary safety, and – last but not least – that both parties would promote respect for, compliance with, and enforcement of international standards in the area of human rights, labour rights and environmental agreements.
we are assured that the treaty will not lead to a reduction in the standards currently in force in the field of food quality and safety, the status of employees, environmental protection, etc.
it must be said that the current economic situation is catastrophic, that the national bank of ukraine is currently in a state of technical default, that 35 mines are closed in eastern ukraine and in 3 weeks ukraine will not have enough energy coal.
the energy crisis is imminent and this is an issue that is also important to us in the european parliament, as is the fact that there are hundreds of companies waiting for a sensible economic programme that european companies could offer them.
the reduction of co2 will remain only a symbol of the search for new carbon-free technologies.
we must abandon our ideological approach and concentrate on the search for new sources of energy.
we don't need to fight climate change, which has always been happening, will always be happening, and is completely beyond the reach of civilized means.
we need to secure resources and energy for future generations and to tackle energy poverty.
it is necessary to secure resources that do not significantly damage key environmental components and that are affordable.
this is the position i expect to be taken by the member states and the commission at the un climate summit in new york in a few days' time.
since i teach at the university, i would like to ask him one question: can he explain to me how investments in energy will ensure the prosperity of the euro area?
i also stress the need for climate change adaptation mechanisms, which should include the union's capacity to respond to deadly epidemics such as this one.
you mentioned climate-change policy.
but on industry, on energy, on the administrative burden – on some of these policies we should have done much more.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing again today the issue of the so-called climate package.
for any sensible politician, environmental protection is important.
we also know that excessive environmental interventions can often have the opposite effect.
the excessive regulatory targets of the climate package may threaten the competitiveness of the member states, thus worsening the economic performance of the european union as a whole and, consequently, worsening the environment, which is certainly not in our interest.
portfolios were linked, which had no relation to each other or were only marginally related, which affected my area of interest, where fisheries and the environment were inextricably linked.
some core sectors have no commissioner (space portfolio), data protection and the energy union are not defined at all.
the european parliament resolution clearly defines the core and elaborates on the sub-areas that need to be addressed in addressing the challenge of global inclusive and sustainable growth.
we are talking about what should be done: for example, i believe we should focus on the issue of emergency liquidity assistance in the environment of the banking union.
indeed, the lima conference should pave the way for a global climate agreement in paris in 2015 with the aim of keeping global warming below 2°c.
but when we make a global agreement, we should not just focus slavishly on reducing concrete numbers in reducing co2 emissions, but we should pay attention to investing in future technologies that will reduce emissions while being affordable.
we cannot allow the fight against climate change to turn into a fight for jobs in a collapsing industry.
developing climate-friendly technologies is also important from the perspective of the developing world.
the developed world needs to help the third world with technology transfer in their efforts to reduce co2 emissions.
the ideologically blinded view in the climate change debate often overshadows the most economically viable pathways to real co2 reductions.
one of the european union's most significant achievements to date has been to significantly reduce the carbon intensity of the european economy.
i therefore welcome the commitments of the member states adopted by the council in october to reduce their emissions by 40% by 2030. but we must be equally ambitious on a global scale.
we can't do that without working with the united states, china and other big greenhouse gas producers.
that is why i welcome the recent statements by the leaders of both countries on the fight against climate change.
there's no way that china's emissions are going to increase for another 15 years.
we need to fight not just climate change itself, but also the demagoguery and propaganda of those who oppose it.
together, we are investing in a new economy, a system that creates new jobs and promotes sustainable development.
climate change is a reality of the world today.
after 20 years and 20 climate conferences, we're now at the stage where we're going to decide what happens to our planet.
an october 2014 pentagon study states that climate change is a current national security threat with increased risk of terrorism, food supply disruptions, and an increase in infectious diseases among the population.
if the lima conference does not create the necessary conditions for the successful adoption of a binding global climate agreement in paris in 2015, the above-mentioned catastrophic scenarios will become our future.
rather, it emphasizes that the family provides the best environment for children to develop, and that every child has the right to be cared for by both parents.
how can those acquitted on blasphemy charges return to an environment that breeds hostility?
the alde group in the european parliament will be pushing strongly for further measures to create a more business-friendly environment in the eu.
reducing eu red tape is also key to ensure a business environment that small and medium sized companies can grow in.
i consider it equally important to set a high level of consumer protection in the digital environment.
the internal market is one of the pillars of the development of the european economy, a tool for more employment, sustainable growth and investment.
at the same time, we social democrats are always in agreement that high social and environmental standards and consumer protection policies are also an integral part of its development.
when i look at how they're spent, i see a huge waste.
i therefore support not only an early audit, which must clarify the european union's real debt situation, and the subsequent development of a plan to bring the debt down to a sustainable level, but also the reform of the own resources of the european union budget.
as for the european commission's investment plan, i can only agree with the ambition to set up a predictable regulatory environment for business.
the commission proposal does not seem to offer a complete and perfect solution to the problem of infringements, but it would make it possible to move forward towards creating a fair environment for trucking.
i consider the current draft directive to be wrong, as it clearly goes against the eu's objectives of reducing emissions and promoting a low-carbon economy.
the european union would lower its environmental standards by adopting the proposal, instead of motivating other non-european states to promote cleaner transport.
citizens in other parts of the world deserve as high social and environmental standards as we have in the european union.
another important issue is that the steel industry is one of the energy-intensive sectors, so that competitiveness very much depends on energy prices.
we must have this in mind when we form energy policy, and ensure that energy will be produced for affordable prices.
in a global market where many countries produce with far lower social and environmental standards, europe can compete primarily on quality and innovation.
steel products from asia are not burdened by european regulations and the world's highest energy prices.
there is a need for energy price reductions, reductions or exemptions from various alternative source charges for energy intensive sectors and a review of the emissions trading system.