the next item is the debate on the report by mr holger krahmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 as regards the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles (com ((2012) 0394 c7-0185/2012 2012/0191 (cod)) (a7-0168/2013).
the light commercial vehicles are sailing a little in the wind of car emissions, but are no less important.
we are dealing with a technical issue co2 emissions, light commercial vehicles which has been navigated in the shadow of the co2 regulation for cars; but since the requirements and challenges of light commercial vehicles are different from those of cars, i thought it appropriate to always promote that we discuss this separately.
speed limiters for light commercial vehicles, when installed, are ultimately a road safety issue and have no place in climate protection legislation, especially since the contribution to climate protection would be very limited at the end of the day.
the test cycle underlying the co2 emissions we measure and define today is outdated.
as industry needs planning certainty, the final agreement already contains some indications about what will happen after 2020. since we are preparing policy guidelines for a climate and energy framework for 2030, it is very clear that vehicle emissions will also need to continue to be reduced after 2020. to ensure that our future target is based on the best available information, the final compromise calls on the commission to review the legislation by the end of 2015. in this context, the commission has already made a statement which has been transmitted to the european parliament services for inclusion in the minutes.
this statement refers both to the annual rate of reduction of co2 emissions and the range of ambition indicated by parliament of 105–120 grams of co2 per kilometre.
therefore, in order to prepare the 2015 review, the commission will this spring launch a consultation on the basis of a communication which will look into the various issues and parameters which would need to be addressed when setting a target for the period after 2020.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
it was not easy for them to prevail against the sometimes extreme positions, sometimes unworldly positions of the environment committee.
the only remaining option is to set the already ambitious timetable for reducing co2 emissions to just under 150 g by 2020. there can be no binding reductions for the time after that.
here again we have been able to achieve a viable compromise between ecological and economic concerns.
with the new eu requirements, we will be able to secure the technological leadership of european manufacturers and at the same time make a really good contribution to environmental protection!
because the point is that we're matching the co2 emissions to the consumption that we have in real operations.
because we have set a corridor: 105 to 120 grams of co2 emissions by 2025. this is one of the major advances in this report.
the 2020 target of 147 g will reduce emissions by 28%, more than the overall target set in the european commission's 2020 climate strategy.
i think that in particular these small commercial vehicles... and mrs šuica gave the wrong figure: less than 50% of transport emissions come from small commercial vehicles.
greenpeace is not yet responsible for industrial policy, nor for environmental policy.
and then we've got nothing on carbon emissions at the end of the day.
the present owninitiative report attempts to establish ccs by presenting it as low-risk and climate-friendly.
ccs is designed to convert climate-damaging coal power into supposedly clean power, so that cheap for the energy companies, but devastating for the climate and the environment, coal power continues to fill the pockets of these energy producers.
this is a perversion of responsible climate policy.
this postpones and hinders the necessary conversion of energy production to renewable energy.
a sustainable climate policy requires that climate-damaging gases in energy production and industry are not produced at all or are drastically reduced!
i am sure that later in the history books the early years of the 21st century will be described as a decade of upheaval and transformation in the use of energy resources.
we now know that access to energy is the key to growth and prosperity.
we must urgently seek and find new ways of securing energy and of making it more efficient.
the main objective of european energy and climate policy must be to reconcile climate protection with competitiveness.
and a few years ago, we came across a great hope with carbon capture and storage in ccs.
we have ambitious targets in european climate policy.
if we can really capture and store carbon on a large scale, this would be a major step towards reducing emissions, particularly for energy-intensive industries and for the fossil fuel power stations that are still needed.
if we want a climate policy that is realistic and negotiable, we cannot turn every unresolved issue into a political game-changer.
this requires the highest environmental and safety standards.
ccs is definitely not an alternative for energy generation, it must be clearly stated.
ccs can be a solution in energy-intensive industries, but that we should also take money into our hands for this, where we urgently need the money elsewhere to organize climate action!
very simply, dear chris davies, we need a majority in this house to reform the emissions trading system, to have a reasonable price on carbon, to then do something about this mismatch.
it's very simple: fix the carbon trading system.
we need a reasonable price for carbon to make efficient power plants worthwhile again.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the fight against wildlife crime by mr matthias groote, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety [2013/2747 (rsp)) ] (o-000123/2013 b7-0529/2013).
i think that of course we want to reduce co2 emissions for light commercial vehicles as well, that's undeniable, but of course it has to be renewable.
the better strategy, of course, would be to avoid co2 emissions.
secondly, it would be much better to use renewable resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
this includes in all cases the non-compliance with environmental and social standards as a clear exclusion criterion for offers.
in the international context, ladies and gentlemen, we often have subcontractors outside the eu, and these subcontractors must also be obliged to comply with environmental and social standards.
instead, the most economically viable option also allows for social and environmental considerations - an important step towards greater sustainability, including in the use of taxpayers' money.
the new directives have created an improved framework for sustainability, high-quality and social services and respect for good working conditions.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy.
firstly, we have strengthened sustainable procurement in the sense of socially, environmentally and ethically responsible procurement.
the revised directives also explicitly allow the imposition of a specific production method, not only in relation to ecological criteria, as was the case previously, but also in relation to social and fair trade criteria.
in addition, i consider this to be important, as the new directives require compliance with environmental, social and labour rights applicable at the place where services are performed or provided, including those arising from collective agreements, provided they are in line with union law.
the high standards we are achieving in sustainable and innovative procurement must be maintained!
it is clear that environmental protection requirements were already possible under the old public procurement law, if they were implemented in accordance with european law.
electronic procurement - is one of the outstanding achievements, and it is particularly important for me as a social democrat that social and environmental criteria are put in the foreground and that it is not simply the price that is decisive, but that the quality of both the products and services and the work done must also be taken into account when awarding and spending the taxpayers' money.
sustainable investment is important, and so this is also a prejudice that we hope we have dispelled.
i would like, for example, to see ecological products and services from europe, which can make the world a better place in the long term, offered and accepted in third countries.
this is not just about transparency or dumping, of course, but also about respect for social and environmental standards and, of course, core labour standards.
they had to invest a lot of energy in improving a bill that nobody really needs.
the first has already been mentioned by mr lange: this initiative must be consistent with the procurement packages we have discussed this afternoon, and therefore include social and environmental criteria.
some people pretend that industrial policy is all about reducing energy costs and dealing with deregulation requirements.
thirdly, industrial policy must be clearly oriented towards the fact that competitiveness in the future can only be achieved and safeguarded in the context of and on the basis of sustainability.
but europe will have to orient itself if we are to remain competitive and retain technological leadership, it will have to orient itself on the high technological standards we have achieved in many areas, on production strategies with high added value, on networking of sites, on clustering, and on a strategy that collectively tries to do what the acronym rise says in this report: renaissance of industry for a sustainable europe.
mr bütikofer, you spoke about sustainability.
competitiveness must not be seen as a trade-off against sustainability.
the same applies to the energy issue.
it has been lamented that we are energy dependent – and, yes, we are – but the commission’s internal analysis shows that we will be less dependent if we increase efficiency and if we reduce co2 emissions.
the triangle that we have always pursued – sustainability, availability, affordability – has to govern energy policy, and we should listen to energy-intensive industries if they call for an efficiency target for 2030. i would welcome it if the commission followed the ambitious lead of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, which have set goals to be pursued.
mr barroso has apparently taken over the leadership of climate policy from hedegaard, oettinger and others.
in greece, i am really afraid that key insights on green technologies, on renewable energy, on energy efficiency - things that could also quickly create growth and jobs - are now being torpedoed through brussels as well.
and that includes, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office, that we must not allow trade to be given competitive advantages by dumping - dumping by government action, but above all dumping by failure to respect environmental standards and workers' rights.
therefore, please work to ensure that the european union's trade efforts include environmental standards and workers' rights in an unequivocal and binding way, so that there can be no unfair dumping in future trade relations.
i voted today for the line of the committee on the environment and against the position of the european commission on the honey regulation, and i did so intentionally.
that was something we actually decided by a large majority in the environment committee.
that is why we voted against the european commission's vote and in favour of the line of the environment committee.
i would like to say one thing very clearly in conclusion about the greek presidency: the environment must also be stabilised.
the modernisation of trade agreements is understood by my group to mean increasing their benefits to society, joint action to strengthen the rights of workers, to promote environmental protection, to combat excesses and crime in the financial sector.
contrary to the neoliberal logic of the free trade agenda of the last century, we need today cooperation agreements for economic cooperation, social and environmental development that serve 21st century societies.
it may surprise you to learn that the transport committee is now taking the lead in environmental damage, but in this case it is marine damage caused by a tanker accident.
the accident of the oil tanker erika, which caused a great deal of ecological damage in the sea, was the trigger.
but that doesn't include the environmental damage caused directly in the water by oil tankers.
who do you want to see as the victim when the environment is damaged?
the environment can't complain.
but i think the crucial point in this case - my colleague has already mentioned this - is that the environmental damage is not yet included.
there is also no direct supplementary fund for environmental damage caused by oil affecting the sea.
and we have the polluter's principle, we have also the right to an intact environment already regulated somewhere in the treaty.
the key is now: it was just in france that justice was rendered for the erika accident, on september 25, 2012. the court of cassation has said that there is a purely ecological damage.
it is a matter of international law because there are environmental rights all over the world.
we must move forward and respond to this in the interests of a healthy marine environment!
you can't outsource cheap labor to a prison, but only to a democracy if it's going to be sustainable.
meanwhile, we will continue our engagement on the sustainability compact.
in times of rising energy prices, climate change and socioeconomic challenges, all regions are looking for ways to ensure a reliable energy supply.
some regions - including those with weak structures - have discovered their renewable energy sources in the energy transition, despite the commission's zigzagging course.
they built it up and they've gone from being energy consumers to energy providers.
in this way, islands have been able to break free from dependence on the mainland, offer their citizens stable energy prices and supply the mainland with their energy.
these regions developed intelligent systems for energy consumption and energy saving.
energy cooperatives and citizen solar installations are supported.
where energy is produced, consumed and stored in the same place, electricity must be able to flow in both directions.
or: if you're building an intelligent energy system based on end-user data, you really need to protect data and privacy, and you need to ensure that to the citizens.
only then will such intelligent energy systems succeed.
for example, there are no future strategies for the promotion of renewable energy in the commission.
the commission's return to the fossil age is hampering the regions in creating the necessary investment climate.
i believe that there is an urgent need to change course and to promote intelligent energy systems, which are key to modern climate policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
it is estimated that half of all farms are small farms ensuring the sustainability and viability of these farms is therefore a key to slowing down demographic change in rural areas.
first of all, i would like to express my satisfaction that, with this dossier, and with such broad agreement - certainly also thanks to the good and constructive cooperation between the various committees, as mrs gallo has shown - we have been able to improve the commission's draft significantly and to formulate clear, understandable rules which have put the system of collective enforcement in europe on a new and, above all, sustainable footing.
its contribution is, and has been over the years, a source of stability and energy not only for italy but also for europe.
in accordance with rule 87a (6), the chair of the conference of committee chairs has informed me that no objection has been raised to a recommendation by the committee on the environment for an implementing measure.
i prefer, mr domenici, to retain the tireless energy of his hero to find solutions and establish the right institutions.
therefore, we need to act now to ensure that we have instruments that are suitable for the current trading environment.
the european union is also committed to promoting good work decent work and environmental protection worldwide.
what makes world trade unfair today and causes suffering in many places is environmental and social dumping.
- mr president, honourable members, the commission generally welcomes the joint report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy (envi/itre), and the european parliament’s support for an ambitious eu climate and energy policy.
in many aspects, the joint report of the envi/itre committees corresponds very well to the commission proposal as it was presented on 22 january in the communication ‘a policy framework for climate and energy from 2020 to 2030’.
i will try to focus first on the greenhouse gas reduction target and on the emissions trading scheme (ets), whereas the energy commissioner will comment on the renewables and energy efficiency part of the package.
on the greenhouse gas target, the envi/itre report calls for a binding 2030 target to reduce, domestically in the european union, greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels.
this is exactly what the commission put forward in its 2030 climate and energy framework.
and what is our energy situation?
it is in line with the cost-effective pathway and milestones as they were set out in the low-carbon roadmap towards 2050, where we would have to bring about a reduction of 80 to 95%.
last week, one of the world’s most esteemed professors dealing with these kinds of sustainability issues, jeffrey sachs, wrote in a blog in the financial times: ‘three cheers for the european union’.
now we come to the more transformational issues, changing our energy systems and many more things like that.
as part of our package, the commission has proposed the introduction of a market stability reserve in the eu emissions trading system.
here we have a legislative proposal, it is already there; but the whole package also says very clearly that provided the council and the european parliament will support us in going for the 40% greenhouse gas emissions reduction target, the present correction factor of 1.74% in the ets will have to go up to 2.2%.
ms delvaux mentioned energy costs, and can i say that this is something that we are also very much concerned with in the commission.
i can only recommend that everybody reads the accompanying analysis of the energy costs, because that really gives us some facts and it dispels many of the myths out there regarding what is driving energy costs in europe.
if we in europe are to get our climate and energy policies right, it is extremely important to get the diagnosis right, so that we can get the cure.
it will, of course, also enable the european union to speak with one voice in the international climate negotiations.
an important step in the international process is ban ki-moon’s climate summit scheduled for september 2014 in new york.
your approval of the report is a key step in the process of reaching an inter-institutional agreement on the 2030 climate and energy policy and being able to exercise eu-leadership internationally.
with our 2030 package, we are laying the groundwork for a consultation with parliament, the council, business, ngos, member states and citizens on how to proceed with the europeanisation of energy and climate policy beyond 2020. we are calling for this european work to continue on the basis of binding measures, binding objectives and clear legislation.
because the energy industry - for example, electricity generation, electricity storage, electricity transportation, investment in renewable energy - needs planning certainty well beyond a decade.
first, the energy efficiency.
our/your energy efficiency directive is the latest measure in our package.
the member states are implementing the necessary measures and will report to us in the spring on the progress made in the member states towards greater energy efficiency, towards greater energy savings.
and then you'll be presented with a report showing how far we've come and what we're projecting on the way to 20% more energy efficiency.
and after we have evaluated this in the summer, we will propose, in the mandate of the present commission, in september and october, an update of our energy efficiency policy and our directive.
but at the end of the discussions the council was uncertain whether non-binding measures are too bureaucratic and whether a target of reducing energy consumption would not allow more flexibility in the member states.
and secondly, we will have to consider whether we should fix energy efficiency on absolute units of crude oil and reduce it, or whether we should link it to energy intensity, that is, make energy consumption dependent in part on how the economy is doing, whether the economy is growing, stagnating or whether it stays in recession.
in any case, energy efficiency we announce that will find an addition in our package in september or october so that all the components of the current package are included in the update.
secondly, renewable energy.
we are on track to meet the 20% target in final energy consumption.
this means indirectly that the path to 33-35% of electricity generation from renewable energy sources is already binding on the european level.
we can support renewable energy through research, through infrastructure, through co-financing of pipelines that are specifically important for renewable energy sources and sites.
finally, and this is also reflected in your report, at the beginning of renewable energy, solar was 0 to 3%, wind was 0 to 5%, and national support schemes make sense.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european energy charter, the creation of a european energy charter, the creation of a european energy charter, and the creation of a european energy charter.
the last point is energy costs.
we've done a thorough analysis of the energy costs.
it is about preserving value added, jobs in energy-intensive industries, in the raw materials industry.
in the world market, only japan has higher energy prices than the average for europe.
the europeanisation of renewable energy sources is a contribution to reducing the cost of electricity production.
we are considering how to continue the european union's strategy on energy and climate policy.
you know as well as i do how dependent we are on energy imports.
would you not think it stupid, or at least unimaginative, not to set domestic energy sources and energy saving as firm, binding objectives?
and i think there's a lot to be done with renewables, with energy efficiency, of course, and with the other forms of energy, but not with the path: commitment and higher numbers.
jan, if you are convinced that renewable energy is so cheap, so reliable and so sustainable that we need to expand it in europe so much, and in return we will save energy imports from russia and elsewhere especially fossil energy imports if these energy sources are as great as you have been describing for months, then what do we really need at european and national level supporting instruments?
there is only one point which we must urgently change tomorrow, and that is the wording on carbon leakage.
the committee has unfortunately decided that the commission should amend the carbon leakage list.
we have tabled an amendment, amendment no 9, which says that we need planning certainty and that until we have an international agreement, the carbon leakage list must remain so that those who meet high standards are not driven out of europe.
the commission's impact assessment is an important argument, because it shows that it is good for the economy, for growth and employment, and not just for renewable energy or efficiency, to agree on three objectives.
we need to make energy efficiency a new priority.
the economic reality in europe is that we have been promoting renewable energy for years and now we have to realize that the costs are out of control and this is by no means a german phenomenon.
one of the political realities is that the rest of the world is not with us when it comes to pushing for an ambitious climate change agreement.
we're taking our economy on a treadmill if we want to reduce co2, increase energy efficiency and at the same time promote renewable energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the community's energy policy.
we actually need a target of 45 percent renewable energy and 50 percent co2 reduction if we're going to make any progress towards an energy-efficient and low-carbon industrial society.
we must not let that happen, but we must rely on renewable energy.
climate change policy is also economic and industrial policy, it is also development and employment policy, it is investment policy.
we're looking back where this renewable energy was inefficient and expensive, and not looking forward to the year 2030, where we actually have cost reductions at all levels and can get these achievements much cheaper and much better.
i would also ask the commission: how do you intend to implement a renewable energy target at european level alone?
the first is the setting of sustainable catch levels, the second is the monitoring of compliance with these levels and other rules of the common fisheries policy.
so let's look at sustainability, the longer-term consequences of our decisions, not short-term success!
russia also raised its concerns and interests, in particular on energy.
i believe that the race of some european countries to moscow, because they think they can do their own business in energy policy and many other things, is not in the interests of common strength.
that there is cooperation here and there - energy supplies, counter-terrorism - is not in question.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i also mention the economic reforms needed to improve the business environment.
montenegro should also implement its strategy of public administration reform and address partisanship, enhance transparency, and improve the business environment.
we continue to believe that opening negotiations will contribute to maintaining the pace and sustainability of reforms and to strengthening inter-ethnic relations.
we hope that the amendments to the electoral legislation will help to create a solid legal environment for competitive elections and a level playing field for candidates in the presidential elections scheduled for spring.
this never-ending debate also distorts the view of many other problems of the country - in the field of jobs, in the field of energy, in the field of agricultural policy, in the field of veterinary medicine.
we must indeed still succeed in strengthening inland waterway transport in a sustainable and sustainable way.
we must also remember that we are not dealing with man-made transport routes, but with a piece of nature, a complex ecosystem that serves not only us but also the flora and fauna, and that we cannot simply reverse the interventions we make.
how can we ensure that lng liquefied gas for ships is also possible in the alternative energy infrastructure strategy, so that inland waterway transport becomes even more environmentally friendly?
i have often said, ladies and gentlemen, that in financial matters, as in environmental matters, prevention is cheaper than repair.
pursuant to rule 87a (6), third indent, of the rules of procedure, the presidency has received objections from the edf group and the ecr group, as well as objections from mr protasiewicz and 42 other members of the european parliament to the recommendation of the environment committee not to raise objections to the commission's draft amendment to regulation (eu) no 1031/2010, in particular as regards the fixing of the quantities of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013 to 2020. the recommendation of the committee on the environment will therefore be put to the vote at today's voting time.
do we want our own energy and energy security?
do we want safe and low-emission energy sources that do not pollute our air and do not degrade our nature?
if we can answer these questions with a 'yes', then we must continue to pursue energy efficiency measures and the promotion of renewable and new energy sources.
so we need to focus on energy conservation and on research and innovation in renewable and new energy.
new technologies and storage methods can be the key to successful energy policy.
in bringing together ambitious energy and climate policies, we must not overshoot the mark.
the european union has engaged with local authorities at the highest level, as well as with all actors in bahraini society since the resurgence of unrest in february 2011. the vice-president/high representative warmly welcomes the news that bahrain’s crown prince, upon the request of king hamad, recently held wide-ranging talks with participants in the national consensus dialogue including, in particular, with al-wefaq secretary-general sheikh ali salman, for the first time since the events of february 2011. at this significant juncture, we believe the consultations undertaken since then have the potential to pave the way for long-term national reconciliation and sustainable reform in bahrain.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr thomas ulmer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 443/2009 as regards the setting of the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars (com ((2012) 0393[] - [nbsp ]c7-0184/2012[] - [nbsp ]2012/0190 ((cod)) (a7-0151/2013).
the debate today closes a cycle of almost two years which has been needed to settle the dossier on the carbon dioxide emissions of passenger cars after 2020. i would like to begin by thanking all those involved: the shadow rapporteurs, the staff of the political groups, the staff of the envi bureau, the commission and the irish and lithuanian presidencies!
the hard-won and worked-out compromise means that europe remains the number one in reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
if that stock is then completely converted to 95-gram new cars, we will have a total savings of about 300 million tons of carbon dioxide per year at a mileage of about 15,000 kilometers per car, which is the average european driver.
the prices for innovation must be both socially acceptable and economically sustainable, both for buyers and in the manufacturing sector.
this means an additional carbon dioxide emission of 328[nbsp ]125[nbsp ]tonnes in the area of the 5% scheme and 492[nbsp ]188 tonnes in the area of these super credits.
i continue to believe in the future of the combustion engine, at least until the storage technologies for electricity or alternative energy sources in the automotive sector are more mature.
however, as transport becomes more electric, the carbon dioxide source of the electricity must also be effectively balanced - a well-to-wheel principle.
we must not underestimate this high degree of emotionalism and we are called upon to set realistic standards in the field of environmental sustainability, which i believe we have done with this report.
i think we've had a very difficult time with this issue over the last two years, and i think it's also important to note that we're not really talking about climate policy here, but industrial policy.
will it remain an industrial backbone for the continent, even in a very difficult market environment?
the co2 and co2 emissions of the automotive industry are not the only determinants of market success.
i believe that the new wltp cycle will be a very important element for this regulation, also in terms of consumer protection, as it will make it much more realistic for consumers to know how much energy and fuel their vehicle will actually consume.
in the difficult economic environment we are currently experiencing, i think this is a major concern.
i appeal to the council and to our colleagues not to waste this opportunity!
we do not want to risk any pollution of the environment.
i want to highlight one point that is particularly important to me, namely how we are actually taking seriously the objectives defined in the europe 2020 strategy, for example, for the creation of competitiveness and sustainability, in this european semester.
the whole issue of resource efficiency, for example, which is central to competitiveness and also to sustainability, has never played a role in the european semester.
but i have always suspected, even though i'm on the transport committee, that all the innovative systems that i welcome and support to have intelligent traffic management - less congestion, less emissions, less deaths - we're usually dealing with data.
as rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would like to stress the many opportunities that the programme offers to strengthen the union's action in various health-related areas.
it aims to promote innovation in healthcare, ensure sustainability and improve the well-being of all european citizens.
we need good, sustainable employment that also provides the means to make a living.
the health programme is designed to support and complement the work of member states in order to achieve the following four objectives: - developing innovative and sustainable health systems; - increasing access to better and safer health care; - promoting health and disease prevention; - protecting against cross-border health threats - including the eu portal on rare diseases (www.orpha.net), which provides a reference database on rare diseases that is a world-leading example.
this initiative, which is a risk-sharing instrument created by the commission and the eu bank, provides an opportunity for reopening capital markets as a source of financing for crucial transport, energy and communications infrastructure projects.
the commission will also look at the financing of smaller infrastructure projects and the potential use of european structural and investment funds to support the development of the project bond market in a variety of infrastructure sectors in europe, including renewable generation and smart grid assets.
we wonder how the bank can maintain its quality portfolio in an increasingly difficult economic environment.
we need more health security for the varieties, we need a higher environmental impact by growing varieties that require less pesticides, we need a yield guarantee, because in the future we have to feed a growing world population.
we need to have varieties that are adapted to climate change and we also need new uses, for example for bioenergy use.
they now want to push the field of sustainable organic production and conservation breeding into a niche.
if we think only of the answers we need to climate change, then there are the reserves that must be exploited and not be crowded into a niche.
they don't have an answer to the concentration in the seed market, but they also don't have an answer to the fact that we've lost 75 percent of biodiversity in agriculture in the last few decades.
we really must support the companies that promote this biodiversity!
many petitions have been submitted in relation to issues concerning fundamental human rights, the environment, the internal market and the economic and social consequences of the crisis.
we must be concerned with promoting consumer protection and environmental protection.
those who have maintained a sustainable and sound business model in the past should be able to continue to do so under solvency ii.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment.
the aim is to continue the successful and sustainable pension provision that has been in place for decades.
in the current regulatory environment, insurance companies calculate their provisions conservatively, but always at a flat rate.
this is certainly not a small step in the current economic environment and with long-term commitments.
the eib's commitment must be subject to strict conditions, particularly in the areas of democracy, human rights and sustainable economic development.
what we are not happy with is the degree in environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
we therefore now call for priority to be given to measures with positive environmental effects in the financing of these projects.
as the bavarian representative on the environment committee of the european parliament, i have tabled over 70 amendments.
they all invested a lot of time and energy in negotiating this position and an agreement to be accepted.
we must cooperate on energy policy, we must cooperate on foreign policy.
this creates a great deal of clarity in a rather unpleasant environment in this area, which travellers sometimes had in front of them.
i believe that with the f-gas regulation we have added another piece of mosaic to the path towards climate protection.
and if we reduce two thirds of these gases, that's a good contribution to climate change, and hopefully it will be replicated around the world.
the member states have again proved to be the key brakes on climate issues.
in a few weeks, two major climate policy reports will be released by the world climate council.
the impact of climate change and climate change strategies will be discussed.
i would now like to focus on the debate on climate and energy policy and the question of the future viability of european industry.
i have heard it said here and there that it is very difficult to have ambitious climate, environmental and energy policies in an industrial society.
this is a country that can be described as an industrial desert, because we have ambitious climate and energy targets.
this economy in germany is obviously not coping, is no longer competitive because of ambitious climate targets.
mr barroso, as president of the commission, you have obviously endured for a whole parliamentary term that we have made ambitious climate and energy policies with stavros dimas from greece and andris piebalgs from latvia.
in this parliamentary term you have consistently worked with your people, for example with commissioner oettinger, to undo everything that has been achieved, and we have reached the lowest point in international climate policy and the role of the european union with the climate and energy objectives that your commission has presented.
the renewable energy target is ridiculous, and the fact that there is no efficiency target, especially when you look to the east, is madness, is also strategically complete madness!
they must correct in time - and this can only happen at this council meeting - all this irresponsibility in climate and energy policy, otherwise there can be no successful un climate summit in paris.
with your goals, you've said goodbye to the 2-degree goal, the goal we've always stuck to, of how to stop destructive climate change.
and you also laid out the idea that ambitious climate action can be linked to industrial, economic innovation.
that we need to put energy efficiency and resource efficiency at the heart of our strategies in a world of limited resources, where they are used to make policy, where people are blackmailed.
why, i ask, is the federal republic of germany not also placed under macroeconomic surveillance and given clear instructions to drastically increase minimum incomes, minimum wages and massive sustainable investments?
the summit will also address the commission's proposal for the 2020 to 2030 climate targets.
i feel that this is a sad day because i am convinced that we can only face the crisis and the global challenges as an eu if we really face a social and ecological transformation, if we introduce social and ecological minimum standards and if we really enforce them in the interests of the people and the development of the european union!
these include a sustainable economic policy, continued debt and deficit reduction, and deep structural reforms to improve competitiveness.
it is about cutting red tape and - perhaps more importantly - about avoiding waste.
more than 50 000 tonnes of e-waste are generated annually.
the fishermen who are no longer able to certify their catches with msc are left behind, and of course the environment is also damaged.
sustainable growth, and they are about managing the crisis.
we believe - and that is why we have tabled an amendment - that genuine new competitiveness can only come from a change in thinking, namely that we must support measures, projects and small and mediumsized enterprises that, above all, decouple growth from co2 emissions.
that's the big strategic task in the economic policy of the future, not to promote traditional growth, but to really get to a paradigm shift where we decouple carbon emissions from growth.
but we also think that the protests against environmental destruction are far too little on the agenda.
the vote will take place today, 2 april 2014, at 6 p.m. written declarations (article 149 of the ec treaty)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the internal market for electronic communications and the achievement of a connected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no [nbsp ]1211/2009 and (eu) no [nbsp ]531/2012 (com2013) 0627[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0267/2013[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]2013/0309[nbsp ]cod)) (a7-0190/2014), the report by edit herog, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures to reduce the costs of the construction of high-speed industrial networks for electronic communications and on the implementation of the connected continent and amending directives 2002/20/ec, 2002/21/ec and 2002/22/ec and regulations (ec) no [nbsp ]1211/2009 and (eu) no [nbsp ]531/2012 (com2013) 0627[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]-[nbsp ]c7-0267/2013[nbsp]-[nbsp]-[nbsp03/0309[nbsp0]] (a7-01904]) (a7-0190149 (a0190/2014) on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the internal market for high- and the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on measures relating to the measures to the reduction of the cost of the
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education.
but just as important, if not more important, is the need to carefully create an internet environment that promotes and preserves cultural diversity, the great potential for innovation, especially in the creative sector, and the development opportunities for young smes, not just in the it sector.
the committee on the environment is very satisfied with the way the commission has implemented the budget in the environmental and health sectors.
almost 100% of the possible commitments in the environmental budget have been implemented, over 90% in payments.
so the environment committee is satisfied with the commission, but not with the court of auditors.
the commission has done for 2012 what it has done in previous years: it has dealt with the environment and health together with rural development and fisheries.
climate change is still one of the most serious problems of our time.
air travel, with its enormous growth rates, is unfortunately playing an increasing role as a climate change driver, and we have to do something about it.
but climate is a global phenomenon.
there has been some progress in the international debate on the climate impact of air travel.
in essence, the compromise is that we will initially limit emissions trading to intra-european flights for another four years, not to european airlines, but to flights also from third countries within europe.
it must reduce emissions and it must be non-discriminatory, which means that a second kyoto is not enough.
but if we can get an international climate agreement in paris in 2015, involving all countries and all industries, then we have a great opportunity to change the world.
if you reject the compromise tomorrow, you must know that we are creating a great deal of chaos and that we are potentially driving the emissions trading scheme in air transport completely into the wind.
- mr president, emissions from international aviation represent a rapidly growing contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions.
therefore, the eu decided back in 2008 to take action and to include aviation in its emissions trading scheme (ets).
to facilitate these international negotiations, the commission made a proposal, immediately after the 2013 icao assembly, to provide for a further temporary exemption from the eu ets based on the coverage of emissions within european regional airspace.
it would have been better for europe’s self-respect and reputation and even more important, it would have been better for the climate.
the compromise achieved provides a basis for continued european regulatory action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation and will provide much needed legal certainty for all stakeholders before the compliance deadline.
in return, we expect our international partners to recognise the flexibility and constructive attitude the eu is showing and now focus all attention on making progress and delivering a credible global deal on international aviation emissions by 2016. in that regard, it is worth emphasising that, in our contacts with third-country representatives, they too have already reacted positively to the informal compromise.
not for the climate either nor for the environment.
but in conclusion, we must say that last week in the environment committee we rejected the trilogue because the negative points simply outweigh the positive.
climate policy in europe is highlighted in sunday speeches every time.
that is why i will support the result of the environment committee tomorrow, as will parts of our group, where we were unable to agree on a course of action today because, as i regret to say, it was not forthcoming.
i think that we are generally - but the dossier here is also symptomatic of the climate policy as it is taking place here - muddled, processed and incoherent in place.
i must say first of all that peter liese negotiated for the environment committee and not for the group, that was unique.
and secondly, you have just made a passionate plea for the airspace approach and for what the environment committee voted for, namely that we should not start internationally but at the borders of europe, that everyone should be treated equally there: european airlines and foreign airlines.
i am one of those who, six years ago, when we first discussed this subject, warned that it might be too risky to go for european exclusive rights in airline emissions trading without even consulting third countries on the matter.
if we reject the compromise tomorrow, we will in fact be back to the situation before the stop the clock, which means that we will be obliged to include third countries fully in emissions trading from next month, and logically we will then find that third countries do not want to participate.
so if you want to bury emissions trading - peter liese said it in a half-sentence - you should not agree to this compromise tomorrow, because we are heading towards a situation where we are adopting an eu law which will not be implemented, and at this point we can only warn.
i am also disgusted by the council's blockade, by the obstinacy of third countries, but i know that if we simply say no tomorrow, we will be conducting a life-threatening experiment for emissions trading, for air transport anyway.
or we can't do that in paris, and then air travel is not going to be the biggest problem for the climate, but then we've failed altogether.
the commission is not the report on the comprehensive approach clearly shows that the eu could be a positive actor with a positive impact on world peace it points out, for example, the great importance of poverty reduction and effective climate action, if yes, if some things were deleted from the report or policy and if it was not only about making the interests of the economy of our region the standard of action, if geopolitical ambitions were not the guidelines and if military power in foreign policy were deleted.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
we would like to delete the last part of the paragraph, starting with 'commends' and we would put in its place: 'a modification of these programmes with the aim of a sustainable employment perspective and administrative improvement'.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday:the epp group has asked for a joint debate to be held on today's agenda before the one-minute remarks on mrs mcintyre's report on a business-friendly environment for more jobs and to combine this with the request for an oral reply from the committee on industry on the commission's follow-up to the 10 most important consultations of smes on eu regulation.
because oil still provides 90 percent of the world's energy needs.
the european parliament therefore calls on you to present a comprehensive action plan for sustainable mobility.
and the fact is that we have set very ambitious targets for emissions reduction.
and if we want to reduce emissions from transport, then of course we also need to see how this can be done.
the world climate council presented its report yesterday, and unfortunately we are witnessing an escalation of the crisis in ukraine, which makes us painfully aware once again that we are dependent on russia, not only for gas but also for oil.
electric mobility can be a partner of renewable energy.
if we want to balance the fluctuations of renewable energy, then electric cars can help us do that.
it is therefore also an important factor in solving the problem of renewable energy storage.
it is a major step in the right direction, particularly in terms of safety, energy efficiency and environmental compatibility.
the impact of the approval of so-called long-haul trucks or eco-climate cleaners is widely disputed.
the main concern is that we must put the improvement of truck aerodynamics at the forefront of our efforts to achieve a sustainable road freight transport.
next i would just like to say that legislative initiatives were initially proposed to deal with aerodynamics, safety, better visibility and the improved safety of bigger trucks and also environmental performance.
i regret deeply that this has taken over the very positive elements of this directive, which improves aerodynamics and environmental performance and the safety of the bigger trucks.
to facilitate this positive outcome, the commission has issued a statement on the review of the environmental noise directive.
as i have already said, it is also important that health protection is enshrined in the text and that we have a statement from the commission that the health effects of noise should be taken into account more fully in the future when the so-called environmental noise directive is revised.
the fact is that, for example, we've talked about alternative energy today, and we've already thought about the airport of the future, and maybe it could have electric mobility, at least on the airport grounds.
regarding research, as ms foster has rightly mentioned already, we are contributing to the single european sky everything which is related to the single sky, and this definitely reduces the noise and pollution as well.
the vote will take place on wednesday, 16 april 2014, at 6 p.m.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mario pirillo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on official controls and other official activities to ensure the application of the rules on food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare, plant health, plant propagating material and plant protection products, and amending regulations (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 1829/2003, (ec) no 1831/2003, (ec) no 1/2005, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 834/2007, (ec) no 1099/2009, (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1107/2009, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the regulation of the council on regulations (eu) no 1151/2012 and (eu) no 98/2013 on official controls and other official activities to ensure the application of the rules on food and feed law, animal health and animal welfare, plant health, plant protection products and plant protection products, and on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on regulation (ec) no 999/2001, (ec) no 1829/2003, (ec) no 1831/2003, (ec) no 1/2005, (ec) no 396/2005, (ec) no 1099/2007, (ec) no 1099/2009, (ec) no 1069/2009 and (ec) no 1069/2009 (ec (ec) and (ec) no 1107/2009, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on regulations (eu) no 1151/2012 (eu) and regulation (eu) no 1151/2012 (eu) and regulation (eu) and regulation (eu) no 98/51 (eu) (eu)
the committee on agriculture adopted an opinion on the proposal.
i have often told you that, in financial matters as in ecological disasters, they are multiplying, prevention always costs less than repair.
parliament has spent enormous energy on the negotiations.
ladies and gentlemen, the block on which we are voting here, my report and the others, is the biggest investment in research and innovation and the sustainability of the european union that we have ever made: over 22 billion euros.
at the same time, we all agree that plastic is a particular hazard as waste.
plastic bags in particular are a major environmental problem.
the european waste hierarchy requires us to reduce consumption, recycle and recycle.
the so-called biodegradable bags are not a solution to pollution either.
the materials are more than half petroleum, and they don't completely decompose in the environment.
bio-bags also have a high material consumption, including renewable raw materials.
we need more of it to avoid waste and to shift consumption patterns towards sustainable development.
the figures on plastic waste in europe clearly show that the european union is forced to act and that, contrary to some claims, this is not a legislative initiative à la light bulb ban or showerhead regulation.
the fact that 100 billion plastic bags are circulating in europe and that three quarters of the waste in european seas is plastic is proof enough that member states need to work together on this issue.
for these reasons i voted against the report in its present form, although i am very much in favour of the principle that in a hundred years' time our plastic waste as we know it will not be found in our environment.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
europe must work tirelessly for the freedom of all people, for genuine european democracy and equality before the law for all, and for an economic and social order that is oriented towards the well-being of its fellow citizens, the environment and posterity!
we must promote domestic energy sources so that we can become independent of russian energy if we want to, and we need a large european energy market.
but we also need to acknowledge that global climate change can put people in an emergency situation through no fault of their own.
this is precisely the legislation we have proposed: that only accidental pollution does not have to be labelled.
i am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in excluding phishing expeditions with this directive and thus have a safe environment for the companies working for us and at the same time create better conditions for the plaintiffs and for the consumers.
we are here today to debate and adopt, as the last piece of environmental legislation of this parliamentary term, important amendments to the european union regulation on shipments of waste.
they aim to strengthen the enforcement and inspections of the waste shipments regulation to help prevent illegal shipments of waste.
considerable amounts of the waste we produce leave the european union illegally, mainly to destinations in africa and asia, where it has a severe impact on the environment and human health.
illegal waste exports also mean high costs for european union member states and they are a lost opportunity for the european union economy, as already mentioned by the rapporteur.
by reducing illegal shipments of waste, member states will also be able to cut the substantial costs of having to repatriate illegally exported waste and paying for clean-up operations.
if waste is routed through legal channels for recovery, we ensure that those valuable raw materials are channelled back into our economy, creating jobs in the recovery and recycling sectors, and reducing our dependence on primary resource imports.
the problem that we have faced until today is that the european union waste shipments regulation lacks bite.
it did not contain common criteria which were specific enough for the inspection of waste shipments.
the commission is therefore very pleased to have reached an agreement with parliament and the council on waste to address these shortcomings.first, under the planned new legislation, all member states must establish inspection plans to target the most problematic and high-risk waste streams.
a key part of the planning process is to carry out risk assessments, covering specific waste streams and sources of illegal shipments.
finally, let me express my gratitude to the rapporteur, bart staes, for his dedicated and thorough work on the commission’s proposal, as well as to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
we could have avoided all this if our member states had applied the old waste shipment regulation conscientiously.
the result is a distortion of competition for the industrial giants, the result is that we have a huge waste-hopping, that is, the waste stays in one place and then is traded from one port to another, as in the stock exchange.
but i know that the manpower is also scarce in the directorate-general for the environment.
the commission is not currently, up to 50% of waste shipments are illegal.
in addition, we call on member states to pursue illegal shipments of waste, including plant closures.
beyond tariffs, the agreement with vietnam will cover services and investment disciplines on state-owned enterprises, public procurement, sustainable development and the regulatory framework.
we are also firmly convinced that trade promotes sustainable development and, in this respect, we support the negotiations with vietnam, a country which can certainly generate wealth for its people through trade.
but we also have to say that prosperity and sustainability can only be secured if we guarantee fair conditions, and there are three areas that are particularly close to my heart.
the second is the involvement of civil society in the process, and the third is, of course, how we ensure that fundamental labour rights, fundamental environmental standards and social standards are safeguarded, particularly in the conduct of business in vietnam.
the commission has therefore decided to make the sustainability of the programme more binding.
there is a lot of potential for development with offshore energy and blue biotechnology.
article 33 now reads as follows:expresses particular concern over renewed instability in the separatist region of transnistria in moldova; believes that the recent request of 16 april 2014 by the self-proclaimed authorities in tiraspol for transnistria to be recognised by russia as an independent state represents a dangerous and irresponsible step; recalls that the so-called referendum in the autonomous territorial unit of gagauzia was against the constitution of moldova and therefore illegal; reiterates its full support for moldova's territorial integrity and calls on all parties to urgently resume dialogue, under the 5+2 framework, and calls for an enhancement of the eu's status to that of negotiating partner, leading towards a peaceful and sustainable settlement of the issue; (applause) i would like to thank
i have to say, madam president, i would like to comment on the motion because we are constantly accused of not doing anything in the european union in the area of asylum policy.
we have repeatedly expressed our concern at the climate of intolerance and violence, the attacks on christians and other minorities including shias, ahmadis, hindus and hazaras and the potential for abuse of the blasphemy laws, to which many of you make reference.
we need an energy policy that makes us independent, but also keeps energy affordable and secures our energy supply.
and let me make this very clear, also in terms of the really short-term needs: the fight to protect our natural resources and to combat the threat of climate change will remain our constant task during this election period, including as legislators.
i announce the vote of the candidates: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's action plan for the environment (2007-2013).
all of these were key points during our discussions last week, not least as part of the european semester; and leaders also stressed the importance of addressing overdue investment needs – in transport, telecoms, energy, innovation, education – by mobilising means and fostering a positive environment for long-term investments.
third priority: a secure energy and climate future.
we want to build an energy union to guarantee access to affordable, secure and green energy.
the current context shows clearly the importance of reducing our energy dependency on, notably, russian gas.
energy will be a major topic of our october european council, when leaders are expected to decide the union’s 2030 climate and energy framework.
our relationship to ukraine and the eastern partnership in general also underlines the importance of energy policy.
i believe it is now time for all the governments of europe to agree on what we have been proposing for some years, to have a truly european energy policy.
in this field, the european council has endorsed the commission's proposal for an ambitious energy security strategy and has asked for more work to be done on both energy security and the climate agenda ahead of the october european council.
we have to address energy concerns and the climate agenda.
they need to be agreed together, because it will not be possible to have a sustainable economy, with more jobs, if we have an unsustainable environment, if we remain vulnerable to external shocks, like the current crisis in ukraine, and suffer from energy insecurity.
with our energy dependence estimated to increase to 27% by 2030 – importing 53% of the energy we consume – the solution is to create a low-carbon, competitive and energy-secure economy; one that moves away from our dependence on imports of crude oil and natural gas to one that diversifies our energy supply, both geographically and to include renewables; one that improves the efficiency of our energy consumption; and one that improves our energy infrastructure, our interconnectivity, and establishes a genuine energy single market by the end of the year.
that is why the european council has welcomed the review of our energy efficiency directive on which the commission will make further proposals in this month of july.
it is good that the european council has reaffirmed its desire to see ambitious european leadership, with our agreed 2030 climate targets, at the september un summit, with a view to next year’s paris international conference.
we are leading globally the debate on climate and energy and we are developing our vision for freedom, security and justice.
i would also like to express my group's wishes for good luck and good cooperation to all the newly elected members and, above all, to wish that we as the european parliament send out clear and unambiguous signals, namely that we are indeed representing the voice of those who are waiting for the european union to adopt a policy of social responsibility, solidarity, environmental responsibility and - i say this now consciously - animal welfare and animal rights.
the energy union is a project which has not been advanced, which has been wrongly blocked and watered down in many areas, in particular by commissioner oettinger.
they want us to do our job, to solve the problems, to take care of how growth is set in motion, how jobs are created, how we fight the unrest and the wars that are taking place here in the european environment!
they need our values and our respect for social justice, the environment and human rights.
when we meet again next time - i am addressing you for the last time in strasbourg - in brussels, the very last time i will have the opportunity to attend a debate, i will be able to announce to you, on a crucial chapter, namely that of the energy union and the fight against climate change, the results and decisions of the 28 member states.
this will mark a new direction for energy policy and a key direction for climate change policy.
i agree that we must take advantage of this crisis, which has geopolitical dimensions, to make a qualitative leap forward, particularly in energy policy, but we will also make progress in other areas.
however, as regards the end of my term of office, the october council will be devoted to energy policy and the fight against climate change, and this will be the first chapter on which we will take decisions.
we are proud that, as a result of our presidency, a member state can now, for the first time, unilaterally ban genetically-modified products, as was decided two months ago by the general affairs council and by the council of the ministers of the environment.
are we willing to be at the forefront of information and communication technologies, of major investments in climate change in the run-up to next year's paris meeting?
it is a fact that africa must see europe play a leading role, which perhaps must be greater not only in economic needs, in the investments of our companies, in the attempt to deal with the energy question, but also - let me say this - in the human dimension.
it is a top priority to deliver on our objectives for a smart, sustainable, inclusive social market economy: to deliver on our goals for jobs and employment; to deliver on the fight against poverty and for social equality; to deliver on research and innovation, education and skills; and also on the very important climate and energy agenda.
finally, turning to our climate and energy needs: we will be launching the review of our energy efficiency directive this month.
we will carry out stress tests on our most vulnerable countries to ensure that we meet our energy demands, and we will focus, at the un conference in september and the october european council, on our 2030 climate targets alongside our energy security strategy, to demonstrate european leadership ahead of next year’s international conference in paris on climate change.
i know the italian presidency is absolutely committed to this twin goal: the energy union and the fight against climate change.
the theme of the world expo in milan 2015, ‘feeding the planet, energy for life’, reflects the complementarity between italy’s priorities at home and those of its rotating presidency of the council of the european union.
we have been responsible for this in parliament, for making us more stable, more sustainable.
that is the only way out of the crisis: building sustainable households.
but the question of the quality of the process, the question of the environmental impact too - to discuss this again here, my group supports this.
what we need is a sustainable growth for jahrzehnte.
we need investments in infrastructure projects, in coordinated investments, in broadband, in energy networks, in transport infrastructure in industrial centres.
we need investments in research, development and renewable energy.
renewable energies are not the field of play of the ecological good men.
renewable energies and their development are the prerequisite for europe of tomorrow to have truly durable, sustainable and direct comparative advantages with other players in the world.
we need as was so often said (mainly during the ukraine crisis) a resilient energy union with a forward-looking climate-change policy.
we have to reorganise europe's energy policy into a new european energy union.
we need to diversify our energy sources and reduce the high energy dependency of several of our member states.
i think that the european energy union will become the world number one in renewables and will contribute to significantly-enhanced energy efficiency beyond the 2020 objective, notably when it comes to buildings.
a binding 30% target for energy efficiency by 2030 is, to me, the minimum if we want to be credible and forward-looking.
we cannot pretend to be the leader as far as climate change policy is concerned if we do not become more efficient when it comes to energy efficiency.
(applause) mr president, i do not want to waste any time on foreign policy.
think about the ecology, think about the climate change.
who raises their hand when the question is in the room, that we fight climate change?
the message that was conveyed to the voters in the weeks, months and years before, including during the election campaign, was: there is no alternative to the policy of market radicalism, rigid cuts in public budgets, the destruction of the social models that have developed in the eu, the privatisation of public services, liberalisation, deregulation of social systems and also of environmental standards, subordination to the interests of the european and globally organised economy and the interests of the international financial markets.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment,
the president of the european parliament, mr sosa wagner, mr schaldemose, mrs griesbeck, mr ehler, mr dodds, mr goffreda, mr bettini, mr gierek, mr vajgl, mr gierek, mr ivo vajgl, mr sosa wagner, mr schaldemose, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr schaldemose, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, mr dodds, dodds, dodds, dodds
ladies and gentlemen, the announcement of the results of the elections today marks the provisional end of a process which has no doubt been described by all of you, or at least by most of you, as a historic process.
there is an urgent need for all parties to agree on a genuine and sustainable cease-fire in order to create the necessary conditions for the implementation of president poroshenko’s peace plan.
(applause from the centre) i also find it intolerable that now austria and our italian presidency of the council are suddenly pushing ahead with south stream, because this is not a project for energy security, it is a project that is strategically aimed against ukraine!
this is also contrary to the idea that we want to have a different energy policy.
as a matter of fact position papers have been available for a long time on our dedicated ttip website, clearly stating that we want the us to remove export restrictions in the energy field.
one of the loudest arguments against ttip that is often raised is that the agreement will force europe to lower its high standards for protection: protection of the environment, of consumers and of workers.
first, it appears to suggest that the us is not interested in protecting the environment or its consumers or workers.
contrary to what is alleged by some scaremongers, a us multinational will not be able to successfully sue for damages for lost future profit just because a parliament introduces a new law with the legitimate aim of protecting the environment or public health.
if european parliaments are to decide on consumer protection, data protection, the environment, health policy and workers' rights under the damocles sword of financial claims by corporations, this will change the political culture in europe.
(applause from the centre) when i see this there , the venerable leftists and communists: the commission has not yet been able to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
european standards in the social, consumer and environmental fields will not be destroyed!
if it is not reasonable, if consumer protection, environmental protection, data protection or other important areas should be called into question, then we cannot agree.
but as coordinator of the epp in the environment committee, i must of course take particular care to ensure that we really enforce our standards.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the government and parliament in lithuania have worked hard since 2006 and met all the criteria: a stable exchange rate, low inflation despite increased energy dependence due to the decommissioning of two nuclear power plants in ignalina in 2006 and 2009, low interest rates on the national debt, low public debt, a limited deficit.
on 4 june the commission concluded in its convergence report that lithuania has achieved a high degree of sustainable economic convergence and is ready to adopt the euro on 1 january 2015. the commission has therefore made a proposal to the council to this effect.
the sustainability of convergence has been an integral part of the assessment.
so how can you be so sure that these things are proven to be sustainable?
some member states changed their exchange rates without warning and this created a real feeling of urgency that if we want to have single functioning market we must also have a functioning and harmonised monetary environment, which means a single currency.
otherwise, because we consider this renomination to be a total nonsense and a waste of money, we would have to vote against it or at best we could just abstain.
the efforts made so far must be continued in the future if sustainable development is to be achieved.
we should instead use this as an opportunity to consider whether our budgetary system is sustainable at all, whether we have enough transparency and sufficient controls.
instead of the principle of the watering can and waste of funds, we must focus much more on regional policy and agricultural policy in particular.
the new fund will focus its activities in particular in the north of the country, supporting the health and energy sectors.
as with any other prospective trade agreement, the commission has commissioned an external consultant to undertake a trade sustainability impact assessment.
this will examine the potential economic, social and environmental impact of an agreement.
firstly, we continue to give our full and active support for a sustainable political solution.
as for the medium and long term, the european union and russia will need to further build their relations on shared interests with a view to engaging in dialogue, particularly in the fields of trade and investment, energy, science, cooperation in solving international crises and in responding to global challenges.
it must also be stated that the energy package, which is being renegotiated, will lead to a reasonable solution, that russia must no longer be allowed to use energy and energy prices as a political weapon.
it was putin who decided, when his puppet regime was no longer sustainable, when he took yanukovych out of the game, that he would have to go so far against freedom and democracy in ukraine that he was even ready to invade crimea.
eu countries are being asked to cancel the south stream pipeline and other energy agreements with russia as if electricity were coming out of the socket.
it is freedom of speech; it is the no-visa regime; it is the investment climate; it is democracy.
of course, in taking account of these objectives, the council has also taken account of the fact that the financing of the programmes of the european initiatives must take place in a context of sustainability and budgetary discipline, in line with what is required by the european union from the member states in relation to national budgets.
in any event, as i shall explain later, the council's position provides for a forecast budget for 2015 which, even after these reductions, which are considered necessary and possible, is higher in both commitment and payment appropriations than the forecast budget for 2014. it is understood that italy, as the president-in-office of the union, will work with the european parliament and the commission to reach an agreement on the 2015 budget, relying on the constructive spirit and the climate of cooperation that has always existed between the three institutions in the search for the compromise on the union budget.
that is why, as i have said before, this is a position which balances the need for adequate support for the socioeconomic development policies promoted by the european union with the need for sustainability and budgetary discipline.
i look to our interinstitutional meeting on 24 september to help us jointly to find a sustainable approach.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, next week political leaders, together with business and civil society, will gather in new york for the un climate summit to catalyze action and ambition on climate change.
we have high hopes and expectations that the summit will create a climate of mutual trust between the parties and generate the political momentum needed to contribute to a successful outcome of the international climate negotiations, with a view to a comprehensive agreement at the paris conference in december next year.
as you know, the main objective of these climate negotiations is to ensure that the temperature rise remains below two degrees celsius.
the fifth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change once again underlines the need for urgent global action if we are not to leave the task of addressing climate change to future generations.
the european union is therefore continuing to work hard both internally and within the unfccc in the fight against climate change.
between 1990 and 2012, the european union has effectively managed to decouple growth, which was up 44 percent, from greenhouse gas emissions, which were down 19 percent, thanks to a whole range of policies and measures.
in march 2014, the european council announced that it would decide in october on a framework for energy and climate policies up to 2030. this will allow the european union to present its contribution to the global agreement by the first quarter of next year, in line with what was agreed last year in warsaw.
there is a high level of awareness at eu and member state level of the importance of climate finance.
they are committed, along with others, to mobilize $100 billion by 2020, and are ready to start the initial capitalization of the green climate fund this year.
it is very clear that we see eye-to-eye on what is the purpose of this huge international event on climate change next week in new york.
it is not a place where you negotiate in all sorts of detail the next climate agreement, everybody knows that, but i must say that i think it is encouraging that more than 125 heads of state and governments have now accepted secretary-general ban ki moon’s bold invitation.
therefore, of course, commission president barroso will present at the summit our ambitious 2030 proposal for, among other things, a 40% domestic reduction target of greenhouse gas emissions.
we want a single ambition and leadership across the different thematic areas of the summit, which range from climate finance to energy, to agriculture, to cities and the economic case for action.
the eu will also express its support for the many un-led initiatives which will be launched at the summit, among them an initiative on hfcs; a statement on hfcs, which is very, very important; the global alliance for climate-smart agriculture and the carbon pricing statement – it is a good thing that the carbon-pricing family is actually growing globally – and the global forest declaration.
the eu wants to ensure that the summit delivers a political outcome which meets our objectives for 2015, particularly on commitments to reach an ambitious agreement in paris, on ensuring that major economies table their co2 reduction contributions by march 2015, and on climate finance.
i've often heard that the last five years have not been easy for climate action.
you have kept climate action alive in the european union and worldwide.
the next 15 months will be crucial for progress in the global fight against climate change.
when we talk about climate protection, many people think first of renewable energy.
renewable energy is also important from my point of view.
he said he also believes that renewable energy will be cost-efficient and competitive in a few years.
that is why we should all work together to make energy efficiency a bigger concern.
i would also like to express my gratitude to mr juncker here in the house for his commitment to the new commission: at least 30% energy efficiency.
and it's also urgently needed because emissions are going up and up and we're actually moving further away from the 2°c target than we are getting closer to it.
today, a study called better growth, better climate, was released for the summit, and it shows once again that climate action can be a driver of economic activity and investment, not the opposite.
some 70 trillion or trillion investments are prioritized in the wrong way, because they are not sustainable projects.
climate action must be a category in its own right and cannot be squeezed into another portfolio.
then there was a question by ms arena on whether we are going to change social, environmental and other norms and standards.
the energy charter treaty already applies between many countries with developed legal systems.
we need to bring our public finances back to sustainable levels in a growth-friendly way and we need to restore confidence in the financial sector so that it can support the real economy and facilitate investment.
as such, i very much look forward to hearing your views here today on how we can work together to deliver sustainable growth, create jobs and secure the welfare of our citizens.
we are currently facing formidable challenges that only serve to underline that we have to do whatever it takes to deliver robust, sustainable growth and jobs in europe.
without effectively-implemented reforms, we will not have sustainable growth and job creation.
reforms are also needed to secure the sustainability of our welfare societies and ability to protect the vulnerable.
thirdly, we need to continue ensuring sustainable fiscal policies for the sake of confidence and future generations.
a more efficient and citizen-oriented public administration can especially benefit those in need of social support but also promote job creation by enabling a better investment climate.
we need to ensure that the business climate, our internal market and the regulatory environment are favourable to companies investing in the future: innovating, developing new markets and creating jobs.
major joint efforts are needed to deliver sustainable economic growth.
reforms are the foundation for investment to fall on fertile ground and ultimately to generate sustainable growth.
europe has a role to play in maintaining stability and, above all, in achieving more growth and sustainability.
we had a hearing with commissioner borg in the environment committee, where we again made a massive call for more investment in research.
how long will it take before we finally have a truly sustainable and coherent strategy for implementing the youth guarantee?
they should find more of these opportunities in europe, in a europe which is also becoming more competitive and thus improving the investment climate.
at this moment we are still mediating – today in brussels there is a meeting mediated by the commission on energy – with the russian government and the ukrainian government.
i think basically we have done a part of the job: stability is broadly there, so is growth, even if it is lower than we would have liked, but now we need the determination to complete the reforms, so that we have sustainable growth, not growth fuelled by debt, excessive public debt or excessive private debt, because this debt is artificial.
but sustainable growth: that i believe is possible, if we continue the courageous path of reforms and stronger governance for the european union.
i am extremely proud that it was my commission in my first mandate in 2007 that put forward the most ambitious programme for climate protection in the world and that we are still leading in the world in terms of the climate agenda.
in fact, we were able to join the climate agenda with the energy security agenda.
certainly, one of the great advances of these years is that the european union was able to make the most important bold steps in terms of fighting climate change.
i would like to thank the president of the commission, and all the other commissioners, who have contributed their energy, conviction and enthusiasm to our common cause over the last five years.
europe is a leader in climate action.
before the crisis, debt-based growth was central to this continent, and today we have stronger, more sustainable budgets.
and now you want to pursue a common energy policy as if we had no more pressing problems to solve.
the market, industry and climate protection can be combined.
we need investment security in europe so that companies can raise money to invest in low carbon industry, to invest in renewable energy.
for that, we need a functioning emissions trading system.
we have seen growth rates in the field of renewable energy in particular, and as far as jobs are concerned, we are only dreaming of them in other areas.
but that can only be done with a strong emissions trading system.
the european commission, mr katainen, has calculated the carbon list at eur 30. eur 6,15 to eur 30 for the year.
we must be careful that the climate summit does not turn into an anti-climate summit.
i say this because there is a danger that the objectives on the table will be diluted by the generous allocation of allowances which have also been used in the past not for climate protection but for other purposes.
the main weakness is the non-binding nature of the renewable energy and energy efficiency targets.
so i hope that the energy union really does bring us to a sustainable europe, and that we do not continue on the path of the past.
i also think that when you go to the big print, you should also consider whether the money is being spent in a meaningful way and is it actually doing something sustainable.
the council considers that this position represents a balanced compromise between the shared needs to support growth and employment and the equally important priorities linked to the sustainability of public accounts to which all member states are subject and which involve generalised restraint of expenditure, particularly of an administrative nature.
sustainable economic growth, competitiveness, the creation of jobs and the fight against youth unemployment are other urgent priorities of the eu policy and should be reflected in the orientation of eu expenditure for 2015. we must do this under a clear and agreed framework and provide the necessary predictability and security for our investments and our partners.
in addition, we simply do not yet believe that the budget is really geared to the needs of the future, which means in particular that we must promote sustainable growth, that we must also promote jobs in a sustainable way.
i have decided that frans timmermans will also be responsible for sustainable development.
i could not follow the proposals of your committee on the environment, public health and food safety which wanted the responsibility for sustainable development to be given to the vice-president responsible for growth and investment.
i have chosen to ask frans timmermans to take care of this particularly important aspect of our collective action because the charter of fundamental rights, the application of which will constitute a large part of mr timmermans' work, already provides for respect for sustainable development, as does article 3 of the treaty which prescribes it as a standard of action.
there will be a vice-president who will be responsible for the energy union in all its dimensions, including renewable and new energy.
i did not want to challenge the basic architecture of the commission, so i chose to appoint mr šefčovič as vice-president for energy union, since he had been vice-president in previous years and therefore has an idea of what the coordination work i am asking him to do may entail.
i have already told you that i have proposed to my friend frans timmermans that his portfolio be enriched by all policies related to sustainable development.
the fact that we are now preparing a summit to scrap the european union's climate policy after ten years of passionate climate debate is a contradiction to the fact that this european commission, old or new, has actually recognised the challenges of the future.
(applause from the centre) it is not possible that mr oettinger should have to conduct these pitiful negotiations for russian gas supplies at the same time as the heads of state and government are preparing to set targets for renewable energy and even for energy efficiency at european level.
it is not about gaining sustainability, but about abandoning the objectives that could actually be better developments.
i think that this is what was missing in your speech as a balance sheet, and also the design, the distribution of the climate and energy portfolios, the complete absence of the idea of sustainable development, that is really a serious reason for us to say no to this commission.
just as we are monitoring compliance with economic indicators in the context of the european semester, we must in future set ambitious targets to combat poverty, combat youth unemployment and create good, sustainable and not at all precarious jobs.
i would like to make a further appeal to mrs harms, the green group: the fact that we are voting against it for certain substantive reasons that everyone can understand, i would reply by saying that europe is certainly not in a better position in the forthcoming climate talks if we do not have a functioning commission.
it is not clear enough whether this european union will really be moving massively in the coming weeks, months and years towards becoming a democratic, sustainable and solidary union.
does anyone really believe that the new commission will take the fight to protect animals, people, the environment and the climate as far as it should go?
we know that the very great challenges we face, namely the fight against the deregulation of the financial markets, which is still not won, the fight for a more social europe, the fight for climate protection and energy security, can only be won by europeans working together.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
a strong commission is needed at a time when chancellor merkel and president hollande are trying to circumvent the rules for stable finances and sustainable economic reforms in france.
finally, we must also seriously examine the impact of trade, energy and development policies of the eu and its member states on third countries and the extent to which we ourselves are responsible for the causes of migration.
as a german mep and a child of the periphery, i have never found it difficult, in the last 25 years, to rejoice on this day in november over what happened in germany 25 years ago, because for me, in my immediate environment, the result was that my freedom increased.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (the president declared the result of the vote) the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we will commit to ensuring that work on beps is completed as planned in 2015 to achieve a fairer global tax environment.
the ccctb could fundamentally change the corporate tax environment in europe, ensuring a closer link between taxation and economic activity and shutting off major channels of avoidance.
we have no time to waste!
the court says: the error rate estimated by the court is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
this is the key to a prosperous economy, creating jobs and protecting the environment.
let me take this opportunity to encourage strongly all relevant stakeholders to contribute to a positive climate conducive to a cyprus settlement to the benefit of all, because the division has gone on for too long, and because a settlement would open up the fullest range of options for exploiting hydrocarbon resources in the most economically advantageous way and for the benefit of all cypriots.
but it is also important to solve this question as a whole, and it is also in the interest of the european union that this question be solved when we talk about the diversification of energy resources.
the creation of new, high-quality and sustainable jobs is a priority for parliament and the commission.
we must create a climate which encourages the emergence of new smes.
let me emphasise again that in this process we are guided by our core values which we put at the service of all citizens, citizens who deserve improved life standards which can be achieved only through sustainable and inclusive development in the country and in the region.
corruption needs to be fought, the justice and law enforcement systems need thorough modernisation, and the business and investment climate needs to be improved.
this means that if the situation becomes such that environmental and social legislation can no longer be brought up to international and european standards.
i am a little concerned about the binding rules for our private sector, which are laid down in paragraphs 22 and 68. because without binding rules in the private sector that include a high social standard and also a high environmental standard and that involve people on the ground, we will not have a private sector driver for sustainable and inclusive growth.
the fight against poverty and sustainable development can only be achieved if the opportunities available to the developing countries themselves are also used and those in charge do not plunder the wealth of the countries and the profits go into the pockets of the few.
i would point out that the representatives of consumer interests, health interests, environmental interests and trade unions in the stoiber group have distanced themselves from these proposals.
thirdly, europe's competitiveness requires a healthy and sustainable demographic development.
in a world that is constantly evolving, we want europe to have an intelligent and sustainable economy.
i voted against this report because it contains mismanagement in a variety of ways on the issues of gender and climate, of which the ep has already decided on enough to the detriment of the citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, the way we deal with migration and asylum, the way we talk about migrants, is no longer sustainable.
the g20 in brisbane emphasised the need for a comprehensive programme to restore sustainable economic growth.
yes, we need fiscal responsibility to restore confidence and the sustainability of our public finances and to complete this virtuous omne trium perfectum we now need to boost investment.
perhaps most importantly, it comes on top of what member states can do to help themselves, for member states must also support the investment environment through better use of public money and a greater commitment to structural reforms.
households and companies want to benefit from technological progress and are crying out for action to become more energy-efficient.
our energy sector needs to interconnect networks and markets, integrate renewable sources of energy, and diversify our sources of supply.
our environment needs better waste, recycling and water treatment facilities.
we will stand tall on three pillars: money, projects and tools to create the right business environment.
ten percent of our business goes outside the european union, and we are a very necessary and valuable partner supporting the european union in its foreign, development, humanitarian, energy and climate policies and other areas.
in the energy sector, we do not have a single market, which is why there is no investment.
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the 2014 united nations climate change conference - cop 20, lima, perú (1-12 december 2014) (2014/2777 ((rsp)).
as you know, ladies and gentlemen, lima is the last important meeting of the year before the paris conference, at which we want and aim to have a global climate agreement for the period after 2020. first, i would like to remind you of the reasons why these commitments are so important.
we all know that in order to stave off the oncoming climate change and its devastating consequences, the global temperature rise must remain below 2 degrees celsius above pre-industrial levels.
to achieve this, global emissions must be reduced by 2050 from 40 to 70% of 2010 levels.
the same emissions must reach near-zero or lower levels by 2100. in order to have an instrument for the period after 2020, we agreed in durban to draw up a new legal instrument within the framework of the existing un convention.
as you know, the agreement on the horizon 2030 climate and energy policy framework reached by the european council last month is very significant.
it was a big priority of our semester: we were determined to reach an important and ambitious agreement on combating climate change as the european union, to confirm the role played by the european union in the international climate negotiations.
we have set ourselves the target of reducing our emissions by 40% by 2030 compared to 1990, in line with the longer-term target of reducing emissions by 80-95% by 2050. perhaps we realized, and perhaps the european public only realized the importance of this agreement a few days later, when much more media attention was given to the decision and announcement by china and the united states, when they announced their indcs.
thirdly, and finally, mr president, the lima conference should send a clear signal, building on the momentum of the un secretary-general's climate summit in september, to step up action in areas with high mitigation potential with positive consequences for development, growth and innovation.
- mr president, let me first thank you for the draft resolution on the lima conference and for your work and support for international climate negotiations.
that process should aim to ensure that finalised emissions reductions commitments in the 2015 agreement are collectively sufficient to keep global average temperature increase below 2oc, and individually fair.
the european union has also actively engaged in climate-related outreach through the eeas and the member states’ embassies, and through putting climate on the agenda of summits and forums such as the g20.
on 24 october the european council agreed on the 2030 targets of 40% greenhouse gas reductions.
this puts the european union ahead of the curve and means we will be in a position to come forward with our indc by the first quarter of 2015. however, the european union only accounts for 10% of global emissions today.
there is also an urgent need to step up global ambition to cut greenhouse gas emissions before 2020 – to address the gap between current emission pledges and the reductions needed to keep global warming below 2oc.
i look forward to working with my fellow commissioners, including vice-president mogherini and vice-president šefčovič, to ensure climate change is a top priority for all our external dialogue in the coming important months.
this brings me to the issue of climate finance.
the members of this house attach great importance to the question of scaling up climate finance to the usd 100 billion goal.
finance to developing countries from the european union budget and the european development fund has steadily increased, achieving eur 900 million in 2013. this adds to the eur 8.7 billion of climate finance provided by the member states in 2013, which brings the total climate finance contribution by the european union and its member states to eur 9.6 billion in 2013. looking to the future, the multiannual financial framework, together with the european development fund, will provide eur 14 billion to support climate-relevant actions in developing countries in the period 2014 to 2020. this represents a significant effort from the european union.
in relation to the green climate fund, the eu member states are major contributors.
i've been doing this for many years, i was in rio for the first time in 1992. since then, i've seen a lot of bleak climate conferences.
this is partly because the moderate and sustainable industry is already well on the way to working in this direction.
it helps, and we also know that american industry has long understood that there is money to be made in a low-carbon economy.
on climate change, there is no g20, there is no g8, there seems to be a g2: the united states and china.
secondly, the financing of climate action.
parliament has done it, in percentages: 40% co2 reduction by 2030, 40% efficiency increase and then the 30% renewable energy target.
in the european union, we are responsible for about 10% of global co2 emissions.
40% of that is now to be saved, which is about 4% of global co2 emissions.
we have a good example in germany of how co2 and climate policy cannot work: the hasty withdrawal from nuclear energy.
at the same time, we are moving forward with lignite and coal, wind energy with a dubious climate balance and finally emissions trading, which has proven to be completely unnecessary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left to the detriment of the environment.
a report for the pentagon has identified climate change as a threat to u.s. national security.
i am personally not entirely satisfied with what the summit has decided on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i would like to point out to the socialist group's rapporteur that we should not be debating the issue of binding targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy here today.
the fight against climate change is a subject that is particularly close to my heart.
since 2000, europe has reduced its co2 emissions by almost 10%, but global emissions have increased by 36% over the same period.
it is therefore particularly important that our negotiators at the un climate conference in lima in early december commit to continuing the global efforts to protect the climate.
i hope that a negotiating text with new binding climate targets for the period after 2020 can be drawn up in lima, which will then be decided at the paris climate conference in december 2015. unlike the kyoto protocol, which only binds the developed countries, the new agreement is intended to apply to all countries.
mr president, we have spent too much time and energy repairing the consequences of violence.
when eu representatives go to climate conferences, unfortunately, failure is all too often a foregone conclusion.
the eu is setting ambitious targets, but it is failing to get the countries with the highest carbon dioxide emissions to implement them.
the european steel industry, for example, is being systematically weakened by the ineffective emissions trading and ever-changing co2 limits.
the commitment of all the g20 members to increase demand, especially through a new domestic investment policy, and in general the commitment to create a new and much more favourable regulatory financial climate, including new instruments such as securitisations for small and medium-sized enterprises, is very important.
finally, on climate change.
after a difficult discussion, and with the support of key international partners, we overcame strong efforts to limit the reference to climate change to a bare minimum, which would not be acceptable for us.
we eventually obtained a reference to the need to communicate the intended nationally-determined contributions well in advance of cop 21, and to mobilise finance for adoption and mitigation, mentioning the green climate fund.
you may recall that the starting point of the australian presidency was not to mention climate change at all in the g20 context.
we should also remember that credibility is the cornerstone of sustainable growth and jobs.
we are working to ensure that there is more investment in europe and, above all, a better investment climate.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment by the placing on the market of products containing harmful substances.
the european steel lobby is, unfortunately, focusing its own efforts not on pursuing an innovation agenda but on resorting to a strategy composed of calls for subsidies, calls for protectionism and calls for social and environmental dumping strategies.
all seven points have just one message: give up any meaningful climate and energy transition policy in europe and we might be thankful.
we have the additional burden of high environmental standards and the trade in certificates and relatively high wages in international comparison.
in order to safeguard jobs, we would be better advised to provide the european steel industry with a better framework, to strengthen its competitiveness and not to invest further in carbon leakage measures.
sustainable in the medium and long term!
and that has -- as you say -- a lot of high energy costs, of course, and that has a lot to do with emissions trading, because there are other places in the world where emissions trading is a little bit more relaxed.
the steel industry is finally going out of europe to other continents, without any positive effect on the world's climate, without any positive effect on the world's carbon footprint.
i call on the eu to follow the recommendations of the eu special rapporteur on the right to food, who explicitly points to more organic farming as a way for these countries to feed themselves, and who also points to the role of agriculture in climate change and poverty reduction.
so we need to encourage and support small farmers, because they have the potential to spread diverse, climate-friendly farming systems, they have the potential to produce fair food that matches local dietary habits, they have the potential to build economies.
we need to further green our farming systems to adapt to climate change, because these are the countries that will be the first to be affected by climate change.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already tabled its own request for clarification.
fourthly, it is planned to present not only the measures to be taken by the commission next year, but also the notorious 'killing list', and we have received a great deal of information and also protests from parliament that in particular projects such as the clean air and waste programmes cannot simply be left behind.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) (09412/2014 - c8-0042/2014 - 2013/0418nle)) the commission has also received a number of complaints from the member states.
in addition to natural extinctions, the main causes are anthropogenic: climate change, deforestation, marine pollution, mass livestock farming, the use of pesticides and insecticides, but also the trade in wild animals and wild plants, estimated at several billion euros per year, for example, 1.5 million wild birds and some 440 000 tonnes of medicinal plants are traded each year.
we can stop species extinction by fighting climate change, by taking action against rainforest destruction, by reducing mass livestock farming, but also by tightening trade restrictions.
we had an interesting debate in the environment committee on the fuel quality directive.
have any new environmental aspects been added?
i can only say and warn you: if this continues in the future, with the laws that have been introduced as part of the climate and energy package being watered down and destroyed in the comitology procedure, then we will soon be able to pack up, because then we as the european union will become a joke in international negotiations.
we must say no to this politically, we must say no to this environmentally, we must say no to this climate policy.
you have recently done analyses which have clearly shown that tar sands are much worse in their climate footprint than conventional fuels of this kind.
then others will come along who want the same thing, and we can no longer make policies that serve climate protection, but only those that serve client interests.
i have to say, madam president, the point is that we want to reduce life cycle greenhouse gas intensity by 6% by 2020. this has been said and made clear on many occasions.
the fact is that you said after a five-year process in the impact assessment that the average greenhouse gas intensity per fuel is maybe a real compromise, that this should be reported, this should be recorded.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the implementation of the prima (partnership for research and innovation in the mediterranean) initiative by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000092/2014 - b8-0046/2014).
the stability pact reminds member states of their obligations to manage their budgetary resources in a sustainable, efficient and forward-looking manner.
nor can a positive investment climate be induced if reforms are not simultaneously undertaken.
the destruction of the environment cannot be in our long-term interest.
indeed, on the environment, we are going to – as i have said, very clearly – maintain some existing programmes.
we are also going to have an overhaul of the waste package, but to make it complete in terms of the circular economy and to make sure that it can benefit from the opportunities that the juncker plan will offer in terms of investment for the circular economy.
in particular, the competitive situation, but we must also note the changing global economic environment for some of ecuador's most important exports has become so acute that now the government under president correa has agreed to accede to the colombia/peru agreement.
in particular the impact on employment and quality of life of the population, on the environment and also generally on the stability and integration of the whole region serve as a benchmark, mr caspary.
i would also like to advocate a roadmap, as was stressed during the debate, that outlines how the parties to the agreement want to ensure that the process of accession to the peru-colombia fta will not be compromising their social and environmental progress in ecuador, which we all want as a benchmark for the region.
we need to fight against organised crime and other serious crimes, for example fraud and environmental crimes, but we do also see some very worrying aspects in the current trend to make everybody a suspect and to put everybody under suspicion.
investment must be stimulated and the investment environment in europe improved.
thirdly, by creating a predictable and favourable environment for investment.
first, europe needs a new approach to investment, and we will have to concentrate on improving the investment climate in europe.
first, we need a coordinated boost to investment: generating the right conditions for more and sustainable investment is the first priority for this commission.
the fund will work in a wide range of areas and choose the financial instruments most suitable for the project in question: from energy interconnectors to broadband; from education infrastructure to innovative smes; from renewable energy to high-tech healthcare.
nevertheless, there are many interesting examples, such as infrastructure for energy connections in finland, poland and the baltic states, reform of school infrastructure in italy, or modernisation of regional hospitals in belgium, just to mention a few examples.
these efforts will be accompanied by concrete proposals to improve the investment environment by removing regulatory barriers in our single market.
third, the government must secure ukraine's energy supply.
this will also stifle the domestic investment climate in russia.
is there really a willingness on the part of government representatives to put sustainable investment on a strong financial basis and, above all, to set priorities for investment?
when mr juncker took office and ran for president of the commission, he presented a programme which was primarily intended to promote social, environmental and sustainable economic developments in the member states.
i still think it is a huge problem that the necessary investments, sustainable investments, are not made through public funds.
so i think there is still a lot, a lot to be done here if we are to really make sustainable investments that are geared to social and employment needs.
what is the impact on investment programmes, for example, of the question whether environmental standards are being reduced, that something we have democratically agreed on here, for example, is simply being taken out of the debate?
i am thinking here of the clean air for europe programmes and waste management.
i have the impression, looking at this short council resolution and comparing it with the list of investments, which has grown to the size of several source catalogues, that both the commission and the council believe that free trade, the reduction of social standards, environmental dumping and investment in well-run major projects could create lasting jobs throughout europe.
i would like to ask you to ensure that only projects which are really suitable for sustainable economic recovery are approved under this investment programme.
we are not the only ones who are dependent on russian energy imports.
but we must not forget that we must not only focus on growth in general, but also on creating quality jobs and tackling sustainability.
no, that cannot be the answer, but it is about focusing on important innovation and future tasks, making sure that jobs are created in high-value areas such as the digital agenda, such as sustainability, in the energy sector, focusing on infrastructure so that jobs are actually created that our citizens also benefit from.
in the debate on whether mr juncker's investment plan will be an effective start to sustainable growth, our demand as greens is firstly that all the member states of the european union should contribute to this investment plan.
they must contribute to sustainable growth.
i am therefore opposed to this pointless waste of taxpayers' money and i must reject this proposal from the commission.
it has not been demonstrated that this type of fishing does not lead to depletion of stocks and that it is compatible with sustainable management.
for epp group meps, the only sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict will be the one achieved by peaceful and non-violent means.
the commission is pleased to note that the steel industry is no longer an energy-intensive industry within the territory of the eu member states.
a steel plant in china, india or brazil has a much deeper ecological footprint than a european one!
the commission's policy is destructive here: for workers, for social systems, for the environment and for europe's international competitiveness.