we will be able to take much more environmental considerations into account and we will facilitate access for the small local craftsman to be able to offer part-time jobs when a new hospital is to be built.
europe needs modern, sustainable industry that produces in an energy-efficient way.
i therefore welcome the focus on knowledge, technology, innovation and energy efficiency in this report.
- i voted in favour of the revision of the procurement directive because the revised procurement directive is better than the previous directive, as it allows for the promotion of social considerations and environmental aspects.
it is important that public authorities ensure that taxpayers' money is used only for purchases that meet the requirements of decent wages and working conditions and environmental considerations.
we do so because before his disappearance, sombath worked with peaceful means for human rights, education and a sustainable environment and, among other things, helped organize the ninth "asian-european peoples forum" which was held in vientiane shortly before his abduction.
europe must have a green economy where co2 pollution is a thing of the past.
some colleagues are speaking against the ambitious 2030 targets, and this reminds me of the arguments i heard when we were making the rules against acid rain, the rules on the protection of the ozone layer and on improving air quality.
the committee on the environment and the committee on industry adopted their recommendations for the 2030 targets less than a month ago, and thus sent a signal for an ambitious climate policy.
it is a prerequisite for future sustainable economic development that what we have on paper now finally becomes a reality in the member states.
this report comes at a very important time when we have to choose the way forward for the future and common climate and energy policy of the european union.
the eu was brave in 2008 when we chose to take the lead in the fight against climate change.
it is therefore essential that we continue to pursue the three binding targets for co2 reductions, renewable energy and energy savings.
this is money that could be put to much better use: investing in europe for renewable energy and energy saving.
not least, it will also mean cheaper energy in the long run.
europe must produce its own energy, and investments in, for example, offshore wind turbines are essential if we are to move towards self-sufficiency.
there are no targets for energy savings and a greater share of renewable energy.
this is the only way to ensure europe's independence from imported energy.
today, putin is dictating our energy prices!
it's not the renewable energy!
controls have become a huge burden on eu fisheries, with fishermen and authorities measuring, weighing and controlling to a degree that does not create more sustainable fisheries, only more paper piles.
apart from the rules on ldr, ratification of environmental agreements and ilo conventions are key areas for us.
i'm deeply concerned about the climate goals that have been set.
when experts and ngos say that we need to reduce co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050, 40% by 2030 is not enough.
at the same time, we must say that the target for renewable energy is far, far too low.
but there is another point to which we must pay particular attention, namely the question of which projects are being invested in the field of climate and energy.
it is important that the investments are in line with the climate and energy policy we have adopted, which aims to increase the focus on renewable energy.
this means, of course, that the eib will not invest in coal or nuclear power, but also that the eib will pay particular attention to involving the local population in large projects that have a significant impact on the local environment.
it's clear that the nsa spied on the cop15 climate summit in copenhagen.
how did monitoring affect the disappointing outcome of the copenhagen climate summit?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it's not about overfishing versus sustainability, no, it's about money.
that money could have been used for good things, like jobs or the environment.
it would be good for the environment, and it would be good for business.
what we are going to discuss today is part of one of europe's worst pollution problems.
70 percent of marine pollution comes from plastic.
as far as plastic waste is concerned, we have a particular problem: plastic bags.
do you realize that this is the first time that the main requirement of our waste directive, namely prevention, has been used?
we know this from many sources, and i think that those of you who, like myself, are going to campaign now will be glad that we are presenting a report here which shows that we are doing something very concrete and visible which is very important for reducing the nasty and really devastating plastic pollution!
the fact that the other committee could not come together to respect our deadlines should not, therefore, destroy this parliament's opportunity to send an excellent signal to our citizens that we are finally going to do something about a really pressing pollution problem - so thank you for the rest of parliament's support!
that is why it is so important that this group, led by mr monti, should come forward with proposals for a more sustainable system in the future.
in fact, up to 75% of the eu's electronic waste is not known where it ends up.
but we know that we produce up to 50 million tons of electronic waste worldwide every year, and we know that only one in ten cell phones ends up in recycling.
unfortunately, and all too often, our waste, despite all the good intentions, ends up in illegal landfills in countries like ghana, india and china, where poor children dismantle the equipment and burn the plastic material to get at metals like gold, silver and copper, which can be recycled and sold.
it is time we took full responsibility for where our hazardous waste ends up.
and we cannot continue to turn a blind eye when the talk is about the treatment of our own waste.
the cost of collecting and treating waste does not disappear by exporting it to developing countries.
the waste is doing even more damage than if we took care of it ourselves.
i have just returned from guinea-bissau and i know what the nature of waste looks like in those countries.
i myself have pointed to the potential of improving the eib's lending capacity, creating green jobs through more ambitious climate and energy targets and the need for a strengthened youth guarantee.
president juncker wants to make the eu the world leader in renewable energy and he has written in black and white that a binding 30% target for energy efficiency is the minimum if we are to maintain our credibility.
at the same time, we see that investment is falling in renewable energy: 20% worldwide over the last two years, 55% in germany and 75% in italy alone.
but excuse me: in that context, we are not and will not be the world leader in renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we need binding national, ambitious targets in the fight against climate change, and the european parliament has shown the way.
we need at least 40% in co2 reduction, 40% in energy efficiency and 30% in renewable energy.
we know we can save money and become more competitive; we know we can create jobs, and we know we can become independent of russian gas and middle eastern oil if we raise our climate ambitions.
so, dear governments, when you meet on thursday and friday, you must show that europe is not just the front runner in the fight against climate change, but is ambitious on behalf of us all.
the way out of this crisis is not to continue to propose money for more and more projects, which often end up in too much waste and excess.
because only by working together can we have real impact and actually make a difference on the climate.
in addition, the traveling circus means an extra 20,000 tons of co2 emissions!
it is simply not right to waste taxpayers' money and damage the environment in this way.
i therefore strongly urge health commissioner andriukaitis to live up to the legal requirement of the eu's 7th environment action programme, namely to 'develop harmonised hazard-based criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting substances'.
of course, our development policy must, through sustainable growth and without harming the environment or reducing social security, ensure that both developing and donor countries benefit from cooperation.
after this decision, the eu will have a leading role at the lima conference in december and in reaching a global agreement on climate change in paris next year.
i welcome the recent agreement at the october european council on the 2030 climate and energy policy.
if the eu is to lead the world in tackling climate change, it needs to share the burden fairly among its member states.
i always think of that quote when i think about the climate fight.
we have a watered-down 2030 climate package.
i hope the eu gets our supply networks in order so that we can transport renewable energy across the eu.
i hope that the juncker plan will be geared to green investment and that we will not just have an energy union, but that we will have a green energy union.
that is why we must look at alternatives, stop the accession negotiations and focus on what is actually possible: free trade cooperation and joint technical cooperation in the fields of trade, the environment, exchange students, i don't know!