if we are talking about carbon capture for underground storage - what we have called ccs - we must recognize that the objectives set - as has already been said here - have not been achieved.
those 12 major projects that were set in 2007 for 2015 are not going to be realised, mainly because of a financing problem and a basic mistake: because we have put everything - the financing - on the emissions market and on carbon - and you all know what has happened to that.
it is a technique which is obviously not a panacea - no one has said so - in the fight against climate change, but it is a complementary technique which does not compete with renewable energies, which accompanies them and which, of course, is the only one known in some respects, because controversy is generated when we talk about the production of thermal energy, but no one can deny that it is the only known method for reducing emissions in the steel, metal and cement industries, as has also been said here.
and of course it would also be good if we looked at how the european coal and steel research fund can be used to demonstrate or to do pre-commercial demonstrations of carbon capture.
i do agree that all this must be done in the strictest respect for environmental standards, that we must not lower our standards and that we must of course also require companies to meet their responsibilities without any mitigation.
mr president, i would like to express my satisfaction at this report, which, unlike other reports on energy policy, is a report that looks at the future of energy realistically.
as the rapporteur has said, coal is an energy source which will continue to be used.
that europe can take the lead in the world market for a technology in which we are innovative, we are competitive and we have a great future, because we can convert our fossil fuels into clean energy through the use of them.
mr president, i support this report because europe must innovate and have sustainable growth, but it needs to prioritise, coordinate and use its resources in an efficient way with the participation of regions such as the basque country, which has been proposing policies of economic stimulus since the 1980s and is currently working on the smart specialisation strategy, having already defined energy, manufacturing and life sciences as among its meta-priorities.
but i think it is essential that the commission should promote new european networks of excellence in different types of activity, increase competitiveness, yes, but above all that europe should be internationally recognised as a model of sustainable innovation.
− from my perspective, this review of the regulation should have been used to tighten the targets in order to provide a policy driver for improving fuel efficiency to the benefit of small entrepreneurs and climate alike.
- i voted against this report because it is an attack on the environment and on co2 emission commitments.
this report reflects the weak commitment of the majority in this house to the environmental objectives so necessary to ensure life on the planet.
it is because of the need we have to reduce our pollution levels that i have decided to vote against this report.
the report by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (supported by the greens) maintained the 147g/km 2020 target of the existing regulation but introduced a 2025 target with an indicative range of 105g/km to 120g/km as the average fleet co2 emission of new light commercial vehicles – to be confirmed by a review.
the council would not agree to additional text in the recital on comparability of trajectory to 2017-2020, or 3-4% per annum compared to 2012 for 2025, to match the outcome of the provisional agreement on car co2 emissions concluded the night before.
the agreement was not supported by the greens/efa as it did not give sufficient guidance for a future target to ensure a steeper improvement in vehicle technology and the reduction of emissions.
in the vote in the environment committee, the s&d also voted in favour of the deal.
− today, the european parliament in plenary adopted a legislative resolution in line with the 2020 environmental targets limiting co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles from community manufacturers to be achieved progressively over two periods.
− i think that ccs could help to combat co2 emissions, but i am not sure whether all the proponents of this technology actually have this purpose or if they only want reinforce the fossil fuels industry.
the report is problematic in some aspects, in that it: calls for ccs targets in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework; calls for a requirement for the purchase of ccs certificates for fossil fuels; is concerned that the liabilities for ccs developers are excessive; calls for revision of the carbon leakage provisions of the ccs directive in relation to the ets allowances; calls for a more entrepreneurial role for member states accepting greater share of responsibilities; states that the informed public is supportive of ccs; calls for the commission to urgently assess the potential to enhance oil and gas recovery with co2.
- i voted against this report because it continues the absurd bet on carbon capture and storage technology which has proved to be a complete failure.
this technology was authorised by the eu through directive 2009/31, as it considers this technology as a key mechanism to reduce emissions.
with the problems that are currently being generated by injection technologies such as gas storage (for example the castor project in valencia) or fracking, continuing to bet on technologies of this type is justifiable only in the interests of the lobbies, since these "solutions" generate very serious environmental problems.
because the commitment to reduce emissions must be real and based on a change in the development model, i voted against this report.
- my support for this own-initiative report on the development and implementation of carbon capture and storage (ccs) is because, in order to reduce emissions in europe, all available and complementary measures must be taken into account.
the support for renewable energy is clearly still the ultimate objective of my group.
but support for ccs, as well as investment in r&d&i to develop new technologies to reduce emissions during the transition to a low-carbon economy with renewables at its core, remains vital for europe.
it is a balanced and realistic report, which accepts the potential of the ccs to reduce emissions, but which does not forget that our ultimate objective must be to support renewable energy.
in particular it: calls for ccs targets in the 2030 climate and energy policy framework; calls for the purchase of ccs certificates to be required for fossil fuels; is concerned that the liabilities for ccs developers are excessive; calls for revision of the carbon leakage provisions of the ccs directive in relation to ets allowances; calls for a more entrepreneurial role for member states accepting a greater share of responsibilities; states that the informed public is supportive of ccs; and calls for the commission to urgently assess the potential for the secure use of co2 to enhance oil and gas recovery.
- i am particularly pleased with the content of this resolution on carbon capture and storage, a technology with great potential which, at the moment, is the most promising means of achieving the necessary co2 reductions from industrial sources by 2050. we therefore ask the commission to support this methodology, whose technical implementation is slow because of the lack of investment and funding, for example through an eu-level industrial innovation investment fund funded by the sale of emission allowances.
- i believe that in principle progress should be made in studies on the development and application of carbon capture and storage technology, but i would point out that for the time being the eu should not exceed a prudent economic limit for further research or demonstrations without having certain guarantees of the scientific and economic viability of the projects.
the europe 2020 strategy on smart, sustainable, and inclusive growth highlights the need for ‘inclusive growth’ which, amongst other things, empowers citizens through employment, investing in skills, fighting poverty and modernising labour markets and social protection.
the report clearly raises concern about the toxic substances used in plastics and the waste problems caused by plastic waste.
most notable are the following demands: revision of the packaging directive and for further waste legislation to address plastic waste; binding targets for collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste; recycled plastic to be free from hazardous additives that are no longer allowed in new products; phase-out of landfilling of recyclable and recoverable waste without incentivising energy recovery over recycling; essential to discourage incineration of recyclable/compostable plastics; phase-out of oxy-biodegradable plastic and of dangerous plastic materials and additives; radical reduction and where possible phase-out of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags.
- i voted in favour of this report because it represents a change of approach in the field of plastic waste management and production.
this approach suggests that plastics should not only be managed as waste, but also that the need to produce less of these materials, which take hundreds of years to decompose if released into the environment, must be taken into account.
without a policy to pursue reducing its manufacture and use, we will continue to flood our environment with plastics that do not decompose.
the plastic industry in europe generates an approximate turnover of eur 300 billion per year and employs 1.54 million people but the data related to its waste remain unconsolidated, varying from 25 million tonnes generated in 2008 according to the european commission, to 13 million tonnes in 2010 according to eea.
without reliable and comparable data on production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to shape a targeted and effective policy, especially as regards action against illegal flows of waste.
it is evident that the environmental impact of plastic is still underestimated.
as part of the ongoing ‘fitness check’ on waste stream directives, this green paper offers a timely opportunity to aim at a cohesive and ambitious legislative harmonisation.
the first step should be, therefore, the creation of specific eu plastic waste legislation, with related targets as well as the rigid implementation of current rules.
- this new directive will phase out all the types of plastics considered to be the most dangerous and which are undoubtedly harmful to our health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because of its positive effects on the environment and rural populations.
the next item is the joint debate on:- the report by philippe juvin, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the award of concession contracts (com (2011) 0897 - c7-0004/2012 - 2011/0437 (cod)) (a7-0030/2013),- the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on public procurement (com (2011) 0896 - c7-0006/2012 - 2011/0438 (cod)) (a7-0007/2013), and- the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, postal services and transport sectors (com (2011) 0957-0034 (cod)) (c7-0034/2011) (a7-0034/2013).
we are now pushing for further reforms, but i must warn that, despite the energy expended, the results have not been positive.
the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment would have a very serious impact on a sector which is currently very vulnerable.
instrumental policies - monetary, fiscal and financial - are not enough; we need a european action and investment plan; public and private funds to invest in r & d & i and in ict to modernise the productive force and structure; efficiency in the use of european funds; direct public policies, because exporting is good but not alone; we need sustainable and non-seasonal growth, and here the community, national and regional executives are responsible.
a roadmap has been proposed in this report to reach 20% of gdp, as proposed by the commissioner: sustainable development, internal market, opening up of markets, outsourcing, new forms of financing, more and better training, access to raw materials, innovation and technological specialisation, participation of smes; a real energy policy - not a fragmented energy policy - an energy policy for the whole of the european union based on our own resources and environmentally sustainable; social dialogue as a form of management; the democratisation of enterprises; the regional strategy, attention to the countries of the south - attention has been paid to the countries of the south.
we need a european convergence of the 28 industrial policies - of the 28 - with coordination of the states, but of the 28 industrial policies, avoiding regional imbalances and europe-nation-region coordination, to generate a favourable environment, growth and employment.
the report lists social and environmental problems that are occurring in asian countries, but it is reluctant to point out the responsibility of trade relations with the eu.
this directive has taken decisive steps in the right direction, such as reducing payment to suppliers, especially in times of crisis, bordering on economic suffocation, or the best offer, which does not have to be the lowest price, but an offer that respects the environment.
it promotes corporate social responsibility by supporting social and environmental objectives, ensuring decent employment and social inclusion; improves access for smes and, above all, combats favouritism and nepotism; makes transparency and accountability the backbone of the whole process to avoid over-costing and abuse and, above all, makes the use of public money a responsible and effective use.
i would like to congratulate mr president and say to all the citizens of europe that the right to take account of aesthetic and environmental quality in public and contracting has finally been recognised.
the outcome is satisfactory because it brings more opportunities for sustainable procurement procedures: social and environmental award criteria, life-cycle cost instead of lowest price, possibility of using sustainability labels.
the proposal contained in this report is an encouragement to privatisation, an impulse which the governments of the member states will take advantage of to propose the outsourcing of these fundamental services, namely water, energy, transport and postal services.
the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplification of the rules on the one hand and, on the other, sound, effective procedures related to innovative, sustainable award criteria, while also securing a higher rate of sme participation and making wider use of e-procurement.
the aim should be to exploit the potential of public procurement to the full within the single market in order to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's energy sector is not left behind by the current crisis.
the fact that it allows this pollution to spread and conceals the harmful effects of gmos is why i voted against this report.
- i voted in favour of the european commission proposal and not in favour of the report of parliament's committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), given that parliament's committee on agriculture and rural development was in favour of the commission proposal and that the vote of the envi committee had not been unanimous.
recent reforms in mexico have created interesting perspectives for european companies in areas such as telecommunications and energy.
key areas for discussion will be government procurement, competition, investment protection, trade and investment in energy, trade defence instruments, dispute settlement and sustainable development.
it will also assess the environmental impact and, in particular, whether it has contributed to the greening of the economy.
the study will also aim to quantify all remaining trade barriers, especially non-tariff ones, and assess the extent to which they could be addressed in a modernised agreement and the related social and environmental impacts.
if a modernisation of the agreement is decided, the commission would be in favour of considering possible improvements to the financial services chapter and including a sustainable development chapter with clear legally binding commitments.
however, the commission considers that the trade pillar of the agreement could be modernised in, for example, the areas of services, investment, rules of origin, trade facilitation, public procurement, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, trade defence instruments and sustainable development.
for its part, the commission would also be in favour of including a sustainable development chapter with clear legally binding commitments and of considering improvements to the financial services chapter, especially in the light of updated eu legislation on banking.
and in the case of mexico we are witnessing important constitutional reforms, mainly in the services, telecommunications and energy sectors, which are clearly aimed at promoting the interests of european union companies and citizens.
so, commissioner, i do not know whether the commission can be given a big prize for anticipation, but i think we cannot waste any more time.
i therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the possibility of improving the association agreements with chile and mexico be studied, so that we can all take advantage of and benefit from the synergies that arise from this new environment of euro-american relations.
we have also worked and made progress on a wide range of global issues, from security to the fight against climate change, tax havens, corruption and illicit trafficking, to cooperation in science and technology and the promotion of international cooperation and the safeguarding of human rights.
we cannot afford to waste another minute, commissioner, and we must put this strategy into action.
it is therefore an unnecessary, untimely, sexist, classist, backward, anachronistic, unreasonable and unsuitable for the times in which we live, and i therefore urge the european commission to do everything possible to prevent such a waste from taking place.
we therefore reject this backsliding and call on the european institutions - as was attempted in the estrela report - to establish a common rule guaranteeing european citizenship, european women, the exercise of freedom and the right to health in an intimate, human environment, fundamental to individual development such as sexual and reproductive health.
− madam president, honourable members, safety at sea and the protection of the environment are the two pillars of eu maritime safety legislation.
after the erika and prestige accidents, the commission acted to abolish sub-standard shipping and make the prevention of environmental damage to marine waters a priority.
liability for damage to the environment caused by shipping accidents has also been reinforced.
eu member states are now required to impose penalties, including criminal sanctions, for ship-source pollution.
the general environmental liability directive defines environmental damage as a ‘measurable adverse change’ or ‘impairment’ of biodiversity, land and water resources.
under the scope of the directive, the terms ‘environmental’ and ‘ecological’ damage are synonymous.
there is no distinction made between environmental damage in general and ‘pure ecological damage’.
the 1992 civil liability convention establishes the strict liability of the ship owner for any oil pollution damage, including damage to the environment.
the liability limits were revised in 2003 and increased by 50 %, and special compensation funds were created to address pollution damage from oil spills.
these funds compensate victims of oil pollution when the civil liability convention fails to cover their claims, in part or in full, and even when no liability for that damage arises under the convention.
the cost of post-spill studies is covered, and the funds can also facilitate the hiring of experts to advise on environmental recovery.
the total amount available under this regime for compensating oil spill pollution damage is close to one billion euros.
it cannot be combined with the environmental liability directive.
the commission is now studying the effectiveness of the environmental liability directive and is focused on analysing data on accidents that have occurred over the last ten years in eu waters.
it will report later in 2014. any further decision must be well-informed – either to work within the international regime and push for amendments within it, or to extend the scope of the environmental liability directive, abolishing the possibility of presenting claims under the international conventions.
madam president, the truth is that the erika judgment is historic and we would like to see all the proposals we are putting forward concerning a european fund and the extension of environmental responsibility to the seas adopted.
it is time that the sea ceased to be a no-man's land, where no one is responsible, where no one is responsible for such profound ecological, economic and social damage and that the council therefore took up its responsibility.
- i voted against this report because the european parliament has once again missed the opportunity to call on all political and economic actors to relaunch a sustainable reindustrialisation of the continent to enable the much-needed creation of jobs.
one of these texts was article 137: ‘highlights current trends in global energy prices, which are linked to unconventional oil and gas resources in the usa as well as developments in the middle east, and notes that high energy prices are an important factor affecting the competitiveness of european industries; stresses the need to provide analyses of the factors influencing the price of energy; calls on the commission to take this into account as done in its impact assessments when making future proposals; emphasises that rise requires coherence between industrial, energy and climate policies; notes that lower energy prices in the usa have permitted additional industrial investments; refers to parliament’s resolutions on such investments; highlights the hugely important role of the energy-intensive industries, which produce essential basic materials; stresses that these industries are subject to the risk of carbon leakage and that special precautions are therefore needed to keep it competitive; asks the commission to come forward with recommendations to prevent the risk of carbon leakage’.
the report adopted by the european parliament today, which includes sustainable and efficient industrial policies, therefore lays out the most appropriate strategic line to follow in order to harness the potential of the technological revolution we are living in today.
it lists the harmful effects of gm crops on the environment and on the activities of different farmers, beekeepers, etc.
as a result of these developments, and in keeping with the spirit of this european parliament resolution, i am voting in favour, in the belief that this resolution will be a further milestone for belgrade and its authorities in meeting the criteria for serbia to be a full member, as are already other countries in its political environment, such as slovenia or croatia, or regional, such as bulgaria and romania.
during these four and a half years we have succeeded in making the digital environment, for the first time in europe, an opportunity: an opportunity to complete the single market, an opportunity to get out of the crisis, adapting our trade, our economy, our companies and even our consumers to the new digital age, to regain competitiveness, which has undoubtedly been weighed down too much in recent years in europe compared to our main competitors, an opportunity to reactivate the labour market and, in this sense, an opportunity to bring young people - our young people - into the european labour market.
- i voted against because the proposal does not meet the minimum controls necessary to ensure that investment projects in energy infrastructure meet sustainability criteria and fully respect the union's environmental and energy directives.
- i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains some positive points on the diversification of sources, it includes infrastructure for the exploitation of resources which are aggressive to the environment, such as biofuels.
the proposal is interesting in that it proposes a system for exchanging information between the commission and the member states on investment projects for energy generation.
this should improve the control of the energy systems of each state.
in the context of the new eu energy policy, aimed at securing supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, significant investment in energy infrastructure is crucial.
obtaining an overall picture of the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the european union, through the member-states’ notification of their relevant investment projects, is one feature of such a policy.
mr president, one of the most serious problems affecting 60 million europeans is energy poverty, which leads to social exclusion.
i voted in favour of the report on the development of smart grids because it is a step forward towards an efficient and more transparent model of energy production and consumption, with smart grids and meters that allow us to know the exact bill, that is, the actual consumption.
strengthening clean and sustainable energy - and more, to combat energy poverty - is a priority for this mep.
- the report is very positive in that it captures the paradigm shift in the way energy is produced and consumed in the eu regions.
it also highlights the possibility of making geographical (or territorial) changes to the energy grid and of promoting smart grids in disadvantaged regions such as islands, calling on member states and regions to invest in smart local grids through the use of the european structural and investment funds.
- i could not vote in favour of this report because, although i agree with much of what has been said about the search for a new model of energy production and distribution, it allows for the financing of private enterprises through the european union's structural funds.
the report contains many bets on the use of smart grids in the energy systems supplying the member states of the union.
these networks can allow for a reduction in needs by using systems in which energy consumers are, in part, their own producers.
this reduces transport, which is one of the most energy-wasting phases in current systems.
in times of increasing energy prices, climate change and socio-economic challenges, all regions in the eu will have to find ways of providing a stable and secure energy supply, which is affordable for all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria.
looking at different smart energy systems and smart grid initiatives we can see that there are already many solutions on the ground.
some regions have transformed themselves from energy buyers to energy suppliers with a strong emphasis on renewable energies, thus providing a model of sustainable energy production that allows stabilising energy prices and making a profit at the same time.
güssing within burgenland was a previously poor and peripheral region which has transformed itself into a model of sustainability, generating all of its energy needs from renewable energy sources.
islands, such as madeira in portugal, el hierro in spain, samsø in denmark, ikaria in greece, are also turning around a high percentage of energy needs, previously coming from fossil fuels, to now producing these same needs from renewable energy sources combined with smart infrastructure and storage choices.
- in order to maximise benefits and market opportunities, as well as greater sustainability and innovation, meps have endorsed a report calling for the convergence of regional energy production models towards greater decentralisation and a cross-sectoral approach through local smart grids; the barriers to access to these grids need to be significantly reduced.
consumers have a right to the most efficient and personalised care possible, much more feasible if delivered at local level, so the introduction of smart energy meters and consumer education in this area are important, and european funds should be used for projects with these objectives.
i have decided to vote in favour of this report because i consider small farms to be a key element in food sovereignty and respect for the environment.
the problem is of course that the eu is losing thousands of small farms every year, and with them the rural communities, economies and biodiversity they kept in place – by 2020 how many will there be left, replaced by depopulated villages, overgrown meadows, intensive production on the best land, and soya-fed factory farms nearest the ports?
the report adopted today by the members of the european parliament therefore calls for the creation of a secure, transparent and reliable framework for online sales, with guarantees and trustworthy seals, flexible collection points and parcel tracking systems, which will enable both buyers and sellers to benefit from a favourable legal environment.
the report has been used to attack the union's energy and climate change policy, arguing that the crisis in the sector is due to electricity prices.
this report contains some important points, such as the emission control regime to reduce its environmental impact, but it is not a plan that really aims to recover the sector, but rather its condemnation.
greens’ main demands were: recognising that the economic crisis is not the only reason for demand drop but also the structural overcapacity in some steel demanding sector (automotive); in addition the financial, industrial and commercial strategies of some major actors (mittal) lead to concentration and financialisation; recognising that stop-and-go policies pursued with the sole purpose of maintaining prices has been detrimental to plant equipment, competence and know-how; recognising that renewable energy, transport and energy infrastructure represent real opportunities for steel and therefore the need for supporting development of new strategies and market measures to ensure that member states will not be played one against the other when a large steelmaker running plants in several countries announces restructuring; making use of the market analysis instrument to anticipate the risks and impacts of closure on the recovery of the sector; deploying funding according to state aid rules to reduce social impact and examining options to collectively shorten the working time needed for greening technical vocational education in the steel sector.
- europe is committed to renewing and restructuring its industrial sector with a variety of policies on competitiveness, 'energy, production and resource efficiency' and innovation to recover the potential at the base of the production chain.
today in the european parliament we voted in favour of this report, which sets out the future direction of the new generation of the european steel industry, the raw material for other crucial sectors such as the automotive industry, renewable energy and electrical engineering.
the high prices of the huge amount of energy required to produce steel and the declining demand for it make it urgent to take action if we are to compete in the global market and maintain domestic production which employs 350,000 direct workers and as many indirect workers.
only by taking account of sustained and sustainable developments, in compliance with the agreements signed and the obligations required, will it be possible to meet our food needs with justice, equity and peace of mind for european consumers.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by anne delvaux and konrad szymański, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, on a framework for climate and energy policies in 2030 (2013/2135 (ini)) (a7-0047/2014).
listening to the debate, at certain points i feel a certain perplexity, because, although the title of the report we are discussing says 'a framework for climate and energy policies in 2030', there are those who talk about climate change and those who talk about energy, but there is rarely an interrelation between the two areas, which is what this report is about: to see how from both dimensions - from the perspective of climate change and from the perspective of energy - we can work together in a common way.
because if we only talk about climate change and don't consider energy policy, we have a problem, and if we do the opposite, we have another problem.
i therefore believe that we should start by considering the best measures to make progress in the fight against climate change and the least harmful measures to ensure that european industry remains competitive and is not affected by the possible closure of its businesses, which would put millions of workers out of work.
i therefore believe that progress towards this objective, with the alternative possibility of using more energy efficiency or more renewable energy sources, depending on the specific circumstances of each member state, is essential and, moreover, in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, commissioner, commissioner, we find the commission's lack of ambition in relation to climate and energy objectives incomprehensible because of the implications for the competitiveness and sustainability of the european economy.
technologies such as ccs can also contribute to its sustainability.
something similar happens with energy poverty.
in conclusion, mr president, on a positive note, i think it is important that a binding crossborder interconnection target for energy infrastructure is required for the first time.
this is a demand that responds to the logic of an interconnected internal market, without energy islands, and that allows maximum penetration of renewables.
mr president, the objective of this report is to combat climate change and sustainable energy.
the commission has reduced its targets: the target for reducing emissions is very lax, it mentions energy efficiency but does not set very specific targets, and for renewable energies it sets a significant reduction.
i agree with the two commissioners that energy must also be europeanised, but not all countries pay the same.
in spain there has been a 46% increase in prices and energy poverty is being generated.
the existence of abuses of dominant positions, cartels, unlawful dumping and uncontrolled concentrations affect trade and sustainable development.
- i voted in favour of this report because it represents an agreement which can be beneficial for both parties involved, while at the same time proposing an environmentally friendly and sustainable exploitation of the fishery resources present on the gabonese coast.
- i voted in favour of this report because it presents a proposal for a decision which focuses on the most important social and environmental aspects of the island of greenland's relationship with the rest of the european union.
greenland is now an overseas territory, governed by council decision 2006/526/ec which expired on 31 december 2006. this new proposal sets the framework for relations during the 2014-2020 period, and these relations now focus on aspects of civil society participation, educational and social programmes, etc., beyond the mere interest in the island's natural resources and emphasizing the protection of its delicate environment.
the report does not identify the causes of the problems or propose any solution through environmental care, nor does it point to the increase in the insurance sector, which is the big beneficiary and can generate dangerous speculative products.
more research may yield a detailed framework of different situations, with regard to understanding and preventing environmental risks and reducing uncertainty in this field.
social and environmental aspects have also been introduced.
it is clear that, with the kurdish minority being one of the largest in syria - 10% of the population - it is difficult to achieve a democratic and sustainable resolution of the syrian conflict without the kurdish people.
despite the differences, the european union cannot ignore such a relevant neighbour with whom it has such close economic, commercial and energy relations, although not without problems.
we need a european added value, something more than the sum of bilateral relations with russia, and this is clear in many areas; i think the most prominent example is the energy sector.
the political climate today is not very welcoming, but if we cannot stand up for the most vulnerable people in our neighbourhood, then the european union does not have much to brag about.
as the presidency of the council, with complete calm and objectivity, as we do in general for enlargement policy and for neighbourhood policies, we will respect and implement the council conclusions of 19 december 2013.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
i understand that a compromise had to be reached between the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy at the european parliament level with a view to reaching an agreement, but i am critical that the european commission has preferred to devalue the previously agreed objectives because of the right-wing climate conservatism that rules in the community institutions and is causing the eu to lose its global leadership in the fight against climate change.
i would also like to point out that the implications of this lack of ambition are increasing natural disasters, which should make us all reflect and try again to lead the way in reducing emissions, especially by promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency.
- i voted in favour because the final text of the report makes a clear call to the states and the commission to develop effective and ambitious policies in the area of renewable energy, energy efficiency and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions within the framework of the 2030 objectives.
this report reflects that failure in that, despite referring to climate and energy-related policies, it makes a central reference to the economy and competitiveness, the ultimate cause of the environmental problems that global warming is causing all over the planet.
the european parliament has today sent a clear signal to eu governments: binding 2030 targets for renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gases are an essential bedrock for any eu policy.
the eu should not repeat the mistake made with the lack of ambition in its 2020 greenhouse gas reduction target as this has undermined the effectiveness of overall climate policy and key instruments like the emissions trading scheme.
to this end, we should be aiming for a 60% reduction by 2030, which various scenarios have made clear is possible with ambitious policies on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
2030 is the next crucial milestone for european climate and energy policy and it is important that the fossil fuel and nuclear lobbies understand that our energy future lies with renewables and efficiency.
- today, to my great regret, the european parliament in plenary has approved binding energy targets for 2030 which call for a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, 30% renewable energy and 40% improvement in energy efficiency.
i am personally in favour of collective efforts and convergence towards a more sustainable energy model, although i can say that i differ from the position of this report on the way to achieve this.
the setting of such strict eu energy targets does not take into account the economic, technological and industrial context of each member state, each with different needs and potentials, and causes unnecessary distortions in terms of competitiveness and efficiency.
in order to meet consumer expectations in terms of quality, action is needed on traceability, animal welfare and environmental impact standards for meat products.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because it proposes a specific control, country by country, for access to the generalized system of preferences, subjecting such access to compliance with the main international conventions on sustainable development.
this would allow for a greater impact of the implementation of the main international agreements on sustainable development.
the gsp consists of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), whereby no duties are levied on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from the beneficiary countries.
gsp+ is designed to work as a credible incentive for those countries which earnestly want to commit themselves to implementing core international conventions that are essential in the context of sustainable development.
- in the absence of adequate global commitment, europe's objective is to lead by example by minimising and stabilising greenhouse gas concentrations and reducing emission levels.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
there is no doubt that a reduction in gas emissions is necessary and, in this context, it is essential to set emission limits, which may be more or less stringent.
- i voted in favour of this resolution as it involves a necessary revision of the determination of the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020. the system for calculating the abovementioned emission allowances that has been applied until now was ridiculous because the limits set were so outrageously high that they did not create any incentive for the different industries to reduce emissions, since the impact of the crisis and the decline in economic activity had produced a decrease in emissions making the previously set limits on emission allowances useless.
the revision of these volumes is absolutely necessary for this instrument to be able to serve to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i have no objections to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (eu) no 1031/2010 in particular to determine the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in 2013-2020.
in writing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i voted in favour of this resolution because it represents a firm commitment to diversifying the main lines of communication on the continent, which will promote a transport system that is more sustainable in terms of energy and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
secondly, the 'huella' parameter will be studied by the commission as a possible measurement variable, and thirdly, more real information is provided to users about the consumption and emissions of their vehicles through the new types of test.
the commissioner said that the commission had not yet reached a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
in any case, i can say that we are quite satisfied with the results of this negotiation, because with this commitment we are going to encourage research and innovation in the automobile sector; we are going to promote growth and employment while we are going to be more respectful of the environment.
in short, we are going to improve the competitiveness of european industry while reducing pollution and reducing expensive oil imports.
we want renewable energy to be promoted, which is what the spanish government is not doing.
we simply want - and we don't ask for much - to be left with our entrepreneurial economy, with our biodiversity, and not to try to impose on us a bad copy of an arab emirates that we don't aspire to.
we just want to live in peace - we don't ask for much - with a healthy and sustainable environment, with an entrepreneurial economy and without anyone wanting to get rich at the expense of our lives in the future.
we are many who are against it, but i would like to defend the spanish government, because thanks to the current government, environmental impact reports, hearings and allegations are being prepared, unlike what the zapatero government did, which authorized prospecting in the mediterranean without environmental impact declarations, even though they had asked for them.
and it is now our responsibility to be able to correct them, by considering the social and employment elements on an equal footing with the macroeconomic ones, by an action aimed at stimulating knowledge, by restructuring private debt - to which no one has referred today - which is as alarming and more worrying in terms of sustainability, for example, than public debt, and also by making a real investment plan.
- i voted against the report because the targets originally proposed for reducing emissions have been lowered in the negotiation process in informal tripartite dialogues because of pressure from the german government.
unfortunately, some in the european car industry continue to view climate protection and competitiveness as mutually exclusive, rather than complementary.
- the quality of the environment and its improvement is one of the commitments of all the institutions of the european union.
this commitment is put into practice in this resolution, whereby co2 emissions from cars will be reduced from the 130[nbsp ]g/km planned for 2015 to 95[nbsp ]g/km in 2020. manufacturers or producers who do not introduce these improvements in their vehicles will be penalized or will have to compensate for this excess with other models, since the union aims to save 50 million tonnes of emissions by this reduction.
the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation governing biocidal products through the harmonisation of the rules on the making available on the market and the use of biocidal products, whilst ensuring a high level of protection of both human and animal health and the environment.
- the report provides important policy proposals: (i) policies for social protection, unemployment benefit, minimum wage and progressive taxation; (ii) the need to shift the tax burden from labour to other forms of sustainable taxation; (iii) the need to combine macroeconomic policies with structural policies, a coherent labour market and the promotion of welfare policies; (iv) the need to stimulate domestic demand and the creation of quality employment; (v) better implementation of gender equality policies; and (vi) the fight against tax fraud, the shadow economy and false self-employment.
the report welcomes the fact that this year, for the first time, the draft joint employment report annexed to the annual growth survey (ags) includes a scoreboard for employment and social policies, which will help to strengthen the monitoring of employment and social developments as part of macroeconomic surveillance within the european semester; considers that this should impact policy guidance in the european semester in order to reinforce the social dimension of the economic and monetary union, since this is not only desirable but also necessary in order to address the crisis and prevent serious socio-economic divergences in the eurozone, thereby enhancing its sustainability; expresses its deep concern at the limited nature of the role of parliament in the european semester; deplores the fact that little progress has been made by the commission and council to strengthen democratic scrutiny of the economic policy guidance; is of the opinion that under the existing treaties article 136 tfeu allows the council, on a recommendation from the commission and with the vote of only the member states whose currency is the euro, to adopt binding economic policy guidelines for the eurozone countries in the framework of the european semester.
there are a few sweet texts on importance of biodiversity but it is not its real purpose.
our mobility is also now dependent on fossil fuels, because transport uses them to meet 96% of its energy needs and produces a quarter of europe's greenhouse gas emissions.
to meet our environmental goals, we need to reduce them by 60%.
on the contrary, i will support the amendment by the socialist group setting the date for the afe to start operating fully in 2018.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fourth railway package was inexcusable, it was necessary, and it was certainly necessary, because, despite successive legislative changes in recent years, rail transport has not succeeded in becoming the efficient and sustainable mode of transport that the european union needs.
i think we need to approach this issue with less demagogy, more realism, more transparency and wanting to create together that railway space that people and the sector need, because we need to reduce emissions, innovate in this sector above other countries such as those in southeast asia, reduce costs and provide a more efficient service to users, with quality jobs.
mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, with this text we are allowing insurers and insurance intermediaries to remain a pole of stability and continuity in the financial markets, while consolidating consumer confidence and putting the european economy back on the path to the sustainable growth that citizens expect.
we are aware that millions of us have come to rely on the internet, the computer on our desk, the mobile phone in our pocket and online services ranging from entertainment to education or energy.
i am encouraged, and i identify with, the energy you have put into these proposals.
a broad range of public services is established to help member states meet their commitments: energy services, postal services, electronic communications networks, transport services, basic banking and insurance services, education, social protection, health, childcare, cultural and tourist activities.
mr president, i congratulate my great friend luigi berlinguer on the energy he has put into this report and also on its restoration, which i very much welcome.
moreover, it is not enough on its own to foster growth and the creation of sustainable and quality jobs.
- the own-initiative report analyses the outermost regions from the point of view of exploiting their potential in areas such as tourism, research into biodiversity and aerospace innovation.
it therefore urged the commission to promote: - the creation of biannual forums between the european actors concerned in order to assess the effectiveness of the programmes undertaken and the necessary reforms; - the development of renewable energies in the outermost regions with a view to achieving energy autonomy; - synergies with the common fisheries policy, the common agricultural policy, the european development fund and the eu's external policy, as well as the 'connecting europe' mechanism, the civitas and horizon 2020 programmes, the future cosme programme and the progress microfinance instrument.
the report tackles a series of eu programmes and strategies: horizon 2020, competition, biodiversity, youth, tens, maritime policy, cap, external policy, poverty and social exclusion, cosme and creative europe.
this is due to the remoteness, isolation, small market and low level of exports of these regions, as these factors, together with the dependence on air and sea transport, energy and raw materials, have a side effect on production costs, so that, without this measure, local production would be unsustainable.
- the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal transport market which contributes to a high degree of competitiveness and to the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities.
as well as improving choice for users and opportunities for entrepreneurs, this objective is essential if, by 2050, we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 % and co2 emissions by 60 % compared to 1990 levels.
the railway environment in the union has been undergoing profound changes, triggered inter alia by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s.
despite these three legislative packages, the european railway sector still faces problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and the lack of a liberalised, dynamic and business-friendly environment.
in the given climate regarding mass surveillance, the presence of an on-board device which must constantly track but not to transmit the location, is seen as step too far.
while sound fiscal policies serve as the underlying foundation, it is crucial that europe enters a path of sustainable growth that enhances its competitiveness vis-à-vis other global regions and ensures the creation of jobs.
while the world’s unprecedented demand for minerals and other natural resources represents a unique chance to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it also poses major challenges for developing countries.
the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflicts around the world, especially in a context where increasing competition over diminishing renewable resources, such as land and water, is on the rise.
this is being further aggravated by environmental degradation, population growth and climate change.
it places greater responsibility, too, on the european union to extend all our support and expertise to ensure that these changes are put on solid ground and will be sustainable.
we are working on the best inclusive platform for international coordination to provide sustainable economic and financial support, including all international partners, to help in addressing the challenges the country faces.
you have referred to the data: an annual rate of violence of 20,000 homicides; a disastrous exchange rate policy which has produced, as you have said, 53% inflation and a forecast of 100% for this year; an intolerable food shortage in one of the richest energy-producing countries in the world; and, more seriously, a deterioration in the human rights situation in the country which has called for the attention of this parliament on countless occasions.
their work not only enables them and their families or partners to survive, but also contributes to the sustainability of the environment, the marine environment, small-scale coastal fishing and the towns and regions of europe that live mainly from this activity.
we have been able to reform the common fisheries policy, which i think is satisfactory; we have all been able to make concessions to win the whole thing, but in any case we will aim to have better and more sustainable fisheries, but we will only be able to do so if we value the role that women play in this activity.
honourable members, as we begin a new programming period for the emff, let us work together to continue to create an enabling environment in which women can play an important role in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors.
the report by ms[nbsp ]castex concurs with many of those ideas, in particular in so far as her report suggests reforming the current levy schemes in order to eliminate the existing barriers to the internal market, as well as to adapt those systems to the digital environment.
the specific activities undertaken by the european parliament’s committee on fisheries with regard to developments in gender equality in the common fisheries policy in recent years include the european parliament resolution on women’s networks: fishing, farming and diversification (2004/2263(ini)), the european fisheries fund 2007-2013 and the 2010 hearing held by the committee on fisheries on women and the sustainable development of fisheries areas, which highlighted the difficult conditions faced by women in the fishing world and the need to promote women’s participation in all areas of fisheries policy.
i welcome the financing of renewable energies, in contradiction to the erratic and mistaken energy policies of governments such as mr rajoy's in my country, but this does not prevent the resources from also being used to invest in projects for the modernisation and energy recovery of europe's indigenous coal, the only strategic reserve resource that is safe, whether there is sun or not, whether there is wind or not, and above all in co2 capture and storage projects, so that they are no longer virtual but are really real.
if we truly aspire to smart, sustainable and inclusive development, we cannot marginalize talent, capacity and knowledge any longer when it is women who bring these resources.
the third aim is to encourage innovation, with faster market access for new improved varieties and through sustainability criteria for variety testing.
finally, as i said in the beginning, traditional varieties and new concepts of plant reproductive material, such as heterogeneous material and niche market material, would benefit from a significantly simplified path of access to the market – this would not, as is alleged, strangle these traditional varieties – and this will contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of plant genetic resources.
the overriding purpose is to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the report also addresses food waste.
this issue is gathering a lot of political support – and rightly so – as people are shocked to learn that we waste 30-50[nbsp ]% of the food we produce.
this means we are wasting land, nitrates, water and energy and many other key resources used in food production.
the commission will present a communication on sustainable food by this summer.
the communication will set out a number of areas for action, with food waste as a central theme.
we are also looking at how we can support member states in developing strategies to prevent food waste.
a few examples of action are: offering clearer technical definitions of food waste, establishing an agreed methodology for collecting food-waste data, and setting targets for food-waste prevention as part of the revision of the waste framework directive.
one of the issues concerns the possible role of short food-supply chains in mitigating the loss and waste of fruit and vegetables.
the development of this type of transport, which is much more sustainable than other modes, requires reliable data to enable objectives to be set and compliance with them to be monitored.
at the international summit on biodiversity held on 29 october 2010 in nagoya, japan, the parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) adopted three historic agreements to combat the loss of biodiversity: the nagoya protocol, the global strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020 and the creation of the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes).
it establishes an international system to support one of the three objectives of the cbd, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources to enable the preservation of biodiversity and its sustainable use.
this important agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of lengthy negotiations since the adoption of the cbd in 1992 in rio de janeiro.
the commission proposal does not take up the factual arguments which highlight the severe loss of agricultural biodiversity as a consequence of existing restrictions on the marketing and exchange of seeds and a concentration of the seed market in the hands of a few multinational companies.
the proposal continues to impose criteria like distinctness, uniformity and stability, excluding traditional or newly bred heterogenic seeds which would be the basis for better conservation, development and sustainable use of seeds in more resilient farming practices such as organic farming and mixed cropping.
the report calls for increased cooperation between the european parliament and the european external action service, influences the sovereign policies of states because of its conditionality, gives priority to financing from the private sector in third countries, allows the opinion of non-democratically elected institutions to be taken into account and climate change mitigation objectives to be used as a condition for financing, etc.
the loss of biodiversity is constantly increasing and accelerating.
quite aside from the ethical and moral implications, the economic and social impact of this state of affairs is immense: by 2050 economic losses caused by loss of biodiversity will amount to 7% of global gdp (teeb 2010).
it is thus imperative to conserve biodiversity, not only for the sake of humanity in both the global north and global south but also for the socio-economic vitality of europe and its people, who benefit directly from its use.
in order to help conserve biodiversity, and the peoples and knowledge associated with it, we must ensure today that the benefits arising from the utilisation of genetic resources and the associated traditional knowledge are shared fairly and equitably.
- the aim of this report is to further improve road safety and to ensure a high level of environmental protection.
it is essential that vehicles in circulation have a set of safeguards aimed at minimising the risks and environmental impact of vehicles.
it aims to promote and ensure the application of roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles in order to enhance road safety and environmental protection.
this proposal as a part of the ‘roadworthiness package’ aims at supporting and enforcing roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles with a view to enhancing road safety and environmental protection.
before a vehicle is allowed to be put on the market, it has to fulfil all the relevant type or individual approval requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards.
on 13[nbsp ]july[nbsp ]2012, the european commission presented the roadworthiness package, a set of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by upgrading current requirements on periodic roadworthiness tests, technical roadside inspections of commercial vehicles and vehicle registration.
rail transport is essential for a transition to a more sustainable transport system, due to the lower environmental impact of this means of transport.
it involves the financing of such operations to improve knowledge of the economic and ecological functioning of european agricultural holdings.
this report covers the eib's activity throughout the financial year 2012 and contains positive references in relation to the financing of renewable energy and other important elements, but at the same time it maintains the need to continue financing the private sector by continuing the line that proposes to continue using this institution almost like a commercial bank.
- paragraph 38, second part: i argue that public funding should give priority to a transition to a low-carbon economy based on the development of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
however, the report also includes very negative points at the environmental level, such as the increase in the standards of pesticides used in the sector, the lack of an explicit ban on the use of gmos by the sector, etc.
finally, as a more positive note, we welcome the resumption of talks aimed at a just, comprehensive and sustainable settlement of the cyprus problem within the united nations framework, in accordance with the relevant security council resolutions and on the basis of the principles on which the union is founded.
the accession process is certainly the central one, but others are growing in significance, notably our dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy, our trade relations, our cooperation on mobility and migration and our dialogue on energy issues – these are other aspects that make turkey such a special country for the european union.
written declarations (article 149 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases (com ((2012) 0643 - c7-0370/2012 - 2012/0305 ((cod)) (a7-0240/2013).
- mr president, the approval of a revised eu f-gas regulation sets an important legislative precedent for controlling hfcs, which are extremely powerful greenhouse gases.
it will make a significant contribution to reducing europe’s impact on the climate by reducing emissions from this source by two thirds by 2030. it is not small things we are talking about here; they are quite substantial.
without this measure we would – in the best case – only see a stabilisation at today’s levels, while what we need to achieve our long-term climate targets are significant reductions.
the new regulation will not only reduce emissions in the eu but will have a direct impact globally.
this is crucial because, unless other major economies follow europe’s lead, global production and consumption of these extremely powerful greenhouse gases will continue to grow.
joint action on hfcs internationally has the potential to reduce the gap between the current level of climate ambition for 2020 and the mitigation efforts needed under the unfccc.
therefore, by approving this regulation, we will also make an important contribution to the international climate talks.
the montreal protocol’s technology and economic assessment panel is expected to provide an encouraging assessment of the availability and affordability of alternatives, as well as of the economic and environmental costs and benefits of moving towards low-global-warming-potential alternatives for ozone-depleting substances.
if we talk about fluorinated gases and say that they are not the most numerous in terms of emissions to the atmosphere, but they are the most harmful, it seems that we are talking about something very remote or very technical.
it is now up to industry - especially the one that was left behind under the previous directive - to step up and join the train of sustainable development in this union.
this is the last boarding call for the sustainable union we all want.
because in the south, air conditioning is not a luxury - it's a necessity in the face of heat waves that kill people - and the reliance on refrigeration is great because of our climate.
there is therefore no longer any reason why the member states should not now take action and, instead of doing as the spanish government is doing 'cutting back on research into alternatives to these gases, leaving their industry stranded', propose to provide alternatives, to investigate and to support the will of this parliament so that these gases can soon disappear in a non-traumatic way, without harming industry but also without harming the fight against climate change or the health of people.
satu hassi, who i can see has now left, brought up the issue of research, suggesting that four newly-identified substances could significantly damage the ozone layer.
at the meetings of the montreal protocol this year, the scientific assessment panel on the protocol will present its triennial assessment report, and the discussions on its conclusions will provide a good opportunity to look further into potential new threats to the ozone layer and how to address them.
let's talk about energy.
just a few weeks ago, this parliament approved its climate targets and approved a renewable energy effort of 30%, an emissions reduction of 40% and an energy efficiency of 40%.
without waiting for parliament's resolution, parliament's decision, he put forward a much less ambitious proposal: a smaller proposal on renewable energy and no energy efficiency target at all.
we are told that a proposal on energy efficiency will be tabled in september or october.
if there is finally an ambition in energy efficiency, it will be welcome.
it is true that both the fukushima accident and the new, increasingly efficient technologies and energy insecurity - as the situation in ukraine is showing us - require greater efforts on renewable energy, energy efficiency and interconnection.
germany is doing so with an ambitious energy policy.
they have destroyed the effort in renewable energy and created a chaos in electricity that will surely discourage investment and put us far from the effort we had made.
europe probably should have done more, we have done little and the spring council - which is the council traditionally attentive to competitiveness issues - today puts three items on the agenda: the european semester, competitiveness, climate and energy.
because the world is not sustainable.
with this complementary and synthetic economic strategy we and they can do the best service to sustainable economic growth and job creation in europe, and that is what we need.
this concerns not just economic reforms but also the broad range of reforms that are essential to restore competitiveness and ensure sustainable growth in europe.
the commission welcomes the summit’s focus on industrial competitiveness and climate and energy policies.
the european union is the global leader when it comes to fighting climate change.
i listened very carefully to ms[nbsp ]harms and i have to say that, with due respect, the greens seem to be doing a disservice to europe by underestimating our crucial contribution and leadership in fighting climate change.
al gore, nicholas stern and ban ki-moon and other authorities in the field of climate policies recognise the leadership of the european union and of the commission.
this also applies to the areas of climate and energy policies, the single market and the new industrial policy.
our analysis shows that the most cost-effective way to achieve our ambitious objectives was to have one leading european target for greenhouse gas reductions with a well-functioning emissions trading scheme.
this framework, combined with continued broad economic reforms in order to restore competitiveness, will promote economic recovery in europe and enable us to emerge from the crisis with a stronger and more sustainable economy than before.
this will, of course, be conditional upon economic reforms that will make the ukrainian economy more resilient, more sustainable and, in particular, more capable of creating sustained welfare for ordinary ukrainians, especially by getting serious about fighting corruption.
the issue of energy and energy security must not be forgotten.
it represents an important part of the union’s external relations, and we will continue our efforts to ensure a secure energy supply.
the eu is prepared to help ukraine to secure its own energy supply through diversification, better energy efficiency and effective interconnection with the european union.
i know that parliament as an institution and many of you in this room have been putting considerable energy and time into helping to find a solution, and i hope that we can put all our efforts along the same lines into supporting ukraine, which is a european country.
some of the members referred to the energy relationship – to the south stream.
- i voted in favour of the report because it incorporates the democratic principles, respect for human rights, environmental, hygiene and health standards (from the time fish are caught), labour rights (ilo standards) and social conditions in the framework of the agreement currently being negotiated by the european commission with the asian country.
the agreement should ensure the competitiveness and sustainability of the european industry, preserving its activity and social dimension and ensuring that access to the eu market for thai fish and seafood preserves and preparations remains subject to its current tariff and therefore excluded from tariff liberalisation, in the interests of the competitiveness of the eu tuna industry.
the agreement promotes the interests of the large european fisheries, formally respecting environmental and traceability criteria, but this type of bilateral agreements are being implemented to undermine the asean union and to make european economic interests prevail over those of the asian countries mentioned.
the aquaculture sector is also faced with competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over the use of space.
the eu must uphold human rights and ensure conditions of fair competition that require responsible fishing practices, traceability and compliance with equivalent labour, health or environmental standards in line with international rules.
it is because of the defence of a diverse and sustainable agri-food system that i have decided to vote in favour of this report.
- air traffic management needs to be modernised, as it is essential to boost the competitiveness of european airlines, while also improving the use of airspace and even reducing pollution.
in this way we will not only modernize but also improve the services provided in areas such as safety and pollution reduction.
- fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) are industrial gases whose warming potential can be up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide (co2).
hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs) are the most relevant group of gases, mainly introduced to replace hydrofluorochlorocarbons (hcfcs) in ozone depleting substances.
the report includes some major improvements, inter alia the following: bans on using hfcs in products and equipment, in particular stationary refrigeration with hfcs with gwp of 2[nbsp ]500 or more from 2020, commercial refrigeration of more than 40[nbsp ]kw by 2022 (with the exception of cascade systems), small air-conditioning systems over gwp[nbsp ]750 by 2025, foams 2020/2023 and technical aerosols 2018; by-product emissions of fluorinated compounds from hfc imports must also be destroyed or recycled; allocation fee under review in 2017; explicit review of sf6 (an extremely potent f-gas which is not under phase-down) to include its use in medium voltage switchgear under bans by 2020. the legislation represents the single biggest contribution to climate protection achieved during this legislature and is a significant step forward in that regard.
the montreal protocol, considered the most successful international environmental agreement, has achieved global phase-outs and phase-downs of most ozone-depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs).
in addition, other fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases), including perfluorocarbons (pfcs) and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), have global warming potentials (gwps) up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years.
the european union (eu) has called for an 80-95% reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2050 compared to levels in 1990. according to the european commission’s low carbon economy roadmap, in order to reach this target, 72-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (this includes fluorinated greenhouse gases) are needed by 2030. but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, f-gas emissions in the eu have risen by 60% since 1990. hfc-based products and equipment can have long lifetimes of up to 50 years.
additional legislation is therefore needed now to prevent emissions from increasing for several decades to come.
activities which require member states to determine whether a project needs to undergo full environmental impact assessment, however member states may also establish thresholds or criteria determining when projects need not under go either "determination" nor eia.
where a project is subject to full eia, the report must include description of the current state of environment (baseline), reasonable alternative and assess hydromorphological changes, among other things.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the environmental aspects of the transport of dangerous goods.
the european union should not undertake any project which does not guarantee that there is no danger to the environment or to human health.
the failure to ensure that shale gas extraction projects and shale gas exploration involving the environmentally destructive fracking process are subject to compulsory environmental impact assessments is a major setback.
the lack of an obligation for a basic standard of assessment and public participation, as provided for by eias, could lead to risky shale gas projects being bulldozed through in spite of environmental concerns and public will.
with the eu commission having decided not to propose any eu-level regulation of shale gas, this legislation compounds the blow to eu citizens and the environment.
the growing body of evidence about the environmental and health risks associated with shale gas extraction, notably through fracking, cannot be ignored.
this is not to mention the negative climate impact resulting from the intensive extraction process entailing significant fugitive emissions of methane and subsequent combustion of this fossil fuel.
the greens believe there is already sufficient evidence to ban fracking but ensuring informed permit decisions through the environmental impact assessment procedure must be the absolute minimum.
- i voted in favour of the copernicus programme because it will allow regular observation of the earth and in particular of the atmosphere, oceans and continental surfaces, and will provide valuable information for environmental applications and decisive for decision-making.
in particular, copernicus will be structured around six areas: land management, marine environment, atmosphere, security linkage, climate change and contributing to disaster response.
the primary objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of fields, specifically for environment and climate change purposes, while keeping its scope in the civil dimension, yet some of the more controversial elements, like governance and data policy, will need refinement to ensure a smooth evolution.
in fact, if copernicus is considered a priority for both industrial and environmental policy – a flagship programme, as claimed by the commission – one might wonder why the initial budget proposal has been reduced by almost 35[nbsp ]%.
furthermore, the eu should also focus on energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners on this issue.
the eu and the arctic should recall the adoption of its resolution of 20 january 2011 on a sustainable eu policy for the high north, and welcomes the joint communication of the commission and of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy of 26 june 2012. they both should reaffirm its position that, with three eu member states – denmark, finland and sweden – being arctic states and norway and iceland being part of the eea and the schengen area, the eu has a legitimate interest by virtue of its rights and obligations under international law, its commitment to environmental, climate and other policies and its funding, research activities and economic interests, including in the areas of shipping and the development of natural resources.
major reforms, with a view to improving the functioning of labour markets and promoting job creation, can only be successful and sustainable if broadly supported.
- mr president, commissioner, in the minute i have i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr schwab, for the work he has done, and my committee - the committee on industry, research and energy - on whose behalf i am speaking as rapporteur.
on the one hand, we have more scientific evidence concerning stocks and sustainability, and on the other, we have a clear reform of the common fisheries policy.
i cannot agree that this was done without taking into account the best interests of fishermen here in the european union and also the sustainability of stocks, which is the other part of the problem.
however, i think today we should share the good news that we at least have predictability and sustainability with two of the countries involved.
we cannot tolerate iceland unilaterally increasing its quota any further, when we have seen that since 2006 it has increased the number of catches by a factor of 23. we cannot tolerate this because the european fleet, including the basque fleet, does not have enough quota and needs to increase it in order to continue its activity in a profitable and sustainable way.
i have argued that despite the changes in migration patterns, if historically the european union had a catch of 90% with norway, it cannot be reasonable that iceland and the faroe islands have reached 52% in 2013. we have therefore supported the regulation on sustainability measures and its application to the faroe islands and we welcome the agreement reached yesterday in london, which opens the door, also, for iceland to join.
and if iceland does not comply with the rules for sustainable fishing in the future, there are legal instruments currently in force in the european union which can be used to impose trade sanctions on iceland, as the european parliament has repeatedly called for.
and they have been demanding harmonization of chargers for their mobile and portable devices, to end not only a mountain of chargers (which even poses a storage problem), but a real problem of waste of this kind, which, according to estimates, amounts to no less than 51 000 tonnes per year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not recycled, and that the waste is not disposed of in a waste-to-energy facility.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this would imply, should moscow's aggression persist, the need to apply sanctions ranging from visa restrictions to measures against russian companies, especially those in the energy sector, and asset freezes.
it is essential - and this is the aim of the proposal put forward by the committee on industry, research and energy - to have an open and unclosed internet, with opportunities for everyone: opportunities for users, for companies, for organisations, for buyers and sellers, for creators, for education, for health, for the youngest and the oldest.
on the other hand, it should also be noted, as this proposal, which has already been adopted by the committee on industry, research and energy, suggests, that this is an internet without discrimination, without interference, with guarantees for everyone; in short, that 'in the same way as elsewhere in the world with economies that play a major role of global leadership', our companies here too have the same opportunities to take advantage of an open internet, to take advantage of all the momentum offered by such an extraordinary communication platform as the internet.
and i have to say that it is essential that we support the series of measures contained in the proposal which has already been voted on by the committee on industry, research and energy and that, both in the development of spectrum for a better development, in turn, of mobile broadband, and in the concept of an open internet - a truly open internet, where no one is excluded, neither those who want to make certain developments on the internet, nor those who want to develop special services - innovation is encouraged, talent is encouraged.
we need a modern and efficient european legal framework to respond properly to the rapid evolution in electronic payments, to promote competition and implement sustainable rules.
when they come here, we welcome them with rubber balls - in spain - but we do not say that they are coming because we have previously moved them from their territories to install companies subsidized by the european union to obtain biofuels in order to meet our environmental standards, in my view, in a hypocritical way.
we have to draw attention in this way, because these people and ngos are asking themselves what the human rights and environmental rights monitoring clauses are for.
that is why i am asking the commission to demand that these clauses on monitoring the respect of human rights and environmental rights be implemented, to demand it, because there are reasons for this: what is bad for a latin american people, for an african people, cannot be good for europe, even if it is good for a multinational.
we work closely together across the entire spectrum of foreign policy issues, especially ukraine, afghanistan and the middle east where we continue to support the ongoing efforts by us secretary of state kerry, who was with us yesterday for the eu-us energy council which he and i jointly chair.
but to do that we need to review our energy policy in the direction of less dependence; we need to move towards greater space in the area of security and defence policy so that our soft power is complemented by a force capable of responding to a new configuration of threats; we need to work towards a review of the united nations system, in which one of the veto powers has been imposing its will, and, mrs ashton, in an area in which you have been working: that the european union, to be credible, must speak with one voice on the international scene.
mr president, mrs ashton, i will not insist on describing the multipolar and complex international scenario, with asymmetrical threats, with conflicts over energy, security, resources or mass migration, but i do want to stress that it is very discouraging that five years after we have equipped ourselves with the necessary instruments for this - instruments of which you are the visible head - we are stating the obvious: that in this geopolitical environment the european union must project an integrated strategy of its role in the world.
it is very discouraging that it was only in december 2013 that you agreed with yourself - in your multiple capacities as high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the commission and president of the foreign affairs council - to tell us that we need to move forward in the coherence of the european union's external action in the areas of development, trade, energy, the environment, migration or global economic governance and other issues of global scope.
and a fundamental aspect which the communication focuses on is energy: the european union's foreign policy will have the opportunity to be independent and unified if there is a strategy for the diversification of energy supplies and an infrastructure which allows for a wider use of renewable energy sources, but also of indigenous sources and resources...
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr danjean on his report and thank mrs ashton for her efforts over the years.
the european union, for many reasons, interests and values, geographical location, characteristics of its economy and trade, its energy dependence, historical and social links, requires a stable and peaceful world, to which we must contribute by cooperating closely with the united nations and other partners, among whom i would highlight the united states.
i want to just pick up a few of the comments that have been made, beginning with this concept of a comprehensive approach, because i agree that if it becomes simply a catchword, it is waste of time.
we can throw money at it, but if you do not get the results, it is a waste of time and resources.
a number of colleagues talked about energy, and it also applies there.
when we were holding the us-eu energy council, which secretary of state kerry and i chair, we were making exactly the same points that have been made in this debate: the need member states to work more closely together in an interconnected way and to think about energy supply, energy diversity, diversification in the context of climate change and environmental needs, and the impact that can be made by member states not being reliant on individual sources of energy.
energy policy is also about foreign policy, because we get our energy from many countries, some of which are going through extremely difficult times.
so there are many ways in which we need to think about energy policy in the context of our foreign policy.
and i am also referring to the opening up of other areas of cooperation with civil society or in the field of drug trafficking or in the field of the environment.
- the aim of this proposal is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment and to safeguard the internal market in motor vehicles with regard to their noise level.
although it is changing, as this report claims, trade remains the main source of the planet's economic, social and environmental problems.
- i voted in favour of this report because it represents a breakthrough in environmental accounting of the economies of the member states of the european union.
the report covers the development of new accounting in relation to the existing accounting system, which only covers air pollution, environmental taxes and material flows.
the report proposes to include the environmental expenditure of states, the amount of all environmental goods and services produced by the economy and the energy flows of the state in question (energy input, consumption, etc.).
this proposal will improve knowledge of the environmental impact of the member states' economies, which is absolutely necessary for the establishment of clear policy objectives in this area.
- in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution that follows.
- i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it contains many points seeking to tighten legislation to improve the safety of european nuclear installations, it continues to regard this type of energy as a necessary source for the eu's energy production.
we believe that nuclear power production has too costly externalities and too high risks to be profitable without incurring the costs to the public administration and the environmental threats to the nearby inhabitants.
- we have not achieved our objective of having the european emissions trading system take account of extra-community flights and limit it to intra-community flights only.
- i voted against this report because it clearly limits the application of the emission allowances of european airlines, so that they can account for greenhouse gas emissions well below their actual levels of emissions.
the air transport sector is one of the world's leading polluters, accounting for 3[nbsp]% of global emissions, and its emissions have doubled between 1990 and 2006. this report provides an exemption for european airlines from accounting for all these emissions, leaving out all flights from or to third countries outside the european economic area.
- i agree that the application of the european aviation emissions trading system should not be suspended until the conclusion of the icao negotiations, but i do not support that it should apply only to intra-community flights, while flights to or from countries outside the eu are excluded until 2017. the eu must believe in the policies it develops, and suspending the implementation of the system depending on the opinion of other international actors is not a sign of trust or respect for democratically approved decisions.
in the committee on the environment, we agreed that a harmonised approach would be useful and decided to support an amendment calling for a mandatory eid system in 10 years time.
- in this report i was unable to vote in favour of the parliament's decision to approve the management of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows.
- in this report i was unable to vote in favour of parliament's decision to approve the corresponding management of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, but i did vote in favour of the resolution which follows.
mr president, we had two challenges: firstly, the european union's reduced dependence on oil - which has become even more apparent in recent days - and secondly, the reduction of the impact of transport on climate change.
so although the commission had a little difficulty accepting these kind of strange projects, where transport issues but also energy were involved, i think we have finally got a good bet.
the consumer must know where the products he buys come from, and he must be assured that they meet our high regulatory standards of quality and safety and that they are in line with our social, labour and environmental legislation, thus preventing abuse and allowing a better fight against counterfeiting.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a very good one.
the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions that support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies that address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation.
- the proposal will require certain large companies to include a statement in their annual report on information relating to at least environmental, social and employee-related issues, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery issues.
- there is scope for developing sustainable bio-based industries in europe.
i believe the white paper clarified the common objective of pension systems to have adequate, safe and sustainable pensions in all eu member states.
environmental actions cannot be just those that relate - and so society believes - to large industries or large emissions or large public transport.
and the report presented by mrs auken can be described as balanced because neither the objective is so large nor so ambitious, nor the timetables so reckless, and therefore the responsible attitude of a democratic politician in this case, who is committed to the environment, must be to strengthen it.
there was a time when the degree of civilization and development of nations was measured by how they treated people; then we said by how they treated animals; and now we also say by how they treat their waste, by how they behave in the face of the problem it represents.
we must achieve this, and it is a good opportunity to test our commitment to the environment and to the level of civilization we want to achieve in this europe that shelters us.
another issue of critical importance is energy security.
allow me to emphasise: our relations with russia on energy are those of mutual interdependence.
furthermore, in reaction to recent developments, the european commission will, as requested by the european council, conduct an in-depth study of eu energy security and will present a comprehensive plan for the reduction of european union energy dependence.
moreover, the ukrainian government is aware of the need to reform the energy sector in line with the energy community commitments, and displays determination to commence these reforms.
the report introduces the application of the regulation not only to the health and safety surveillance of products but also to the need to monitor the implementation of environmental legislation.
the agency now has competence in the field of combating pollution from ships and pollution from oil and gas installations.
we hope that we can discuss in a serious environment what went wrong, what lessons can be learned and how to make improvements in the future.
the report introduces standards for the environmental impact and prevention of marine pollution of such marine equipment, as well as the safety requirements and tests applied to allow such equipment to move through eu member states without compromising those standards.
the new fund focuses on people and communities dependent on fishing: it will enable an action plan for small-scale and coastal fishing, support aquaculture and establish a network of recovery areas, promote diversification of activities, the promotion of the role of women and generational change by supporting youth, and promote a quality sector based on training, innovation and research, and respond to natural disasters and climate adversity.
this should contribute to the achievement of the union's current objectives, such as the security of the union's energy supply, the promotion of maritime transport, the promotion of sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, the conservation and protection of the environment or ensuring the resilience of marine and coastal areas to climate change.
- the waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste from non-oecd countries.
even if this regulation regulates the movement of waste within the eu and between the eu and third countries, the illegal movement of waste remains a major problem.
in addition, greater cooperation is proposed in satellite navigation systems and energy, including the iter thermonuclear reactor.
mr president, the european council is proposing that we should discuss growth, immigration policy and climate policy in the coming years.
climate policy?
but a climate policy that is sustainable.
a climate policy that ensures the european union's energy supply.
and energy supply means, first of all, efficiency, because there is no cleaner energy than that which is not consumed.
and secondly, energy interconnection.
i do not think it is boredom, but concern, because there are more than 25 million unemployed women and men, because we are facing increasing migratory pressure, because our economic growth is low, because our companies are facing increasing competition in global markets and losing competitiveness, and above all because, moreover, we have an environment in which many european citizens have lost confidence in the ability of politicians to offer effective solutions.
and finally, on energy policy, what will the italian presidency do to ensure that the european council in october 2014 is able to take decisions on the strategic framework for energy and climate, decisions on energy security improvements and on interconnection targets for 2030?
i therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for us, in respect of the territorial integrity and sovereignty of ukraine, to have common sense in dealing with a fundamental question, which is our security vis-à-vis russia and russia's security vis-à-vis its own environment.
and we also take them seriously when addressing the number of issues facing those who would like to build the south stream and to make it an eu-compatible project – and i am not talking about politics, i am talking about the legislation – and to hold these consultations with the russians, despite them taking us to the wto on the third energy package.
i cannot, as a socialist, defend an agreement which would lower european standards in social, labour, health or environmental terms.
the promotion of youth employment is closely linked to support for smes and the selfemployed, the main generators of employment at european level, and to achieve this we must create an environment favourable to their establishment and growth, reduce administrative burdens and, above all, facilitate credit.
we ask them to urge the states to link youth employment policies to sustainable contracts, to quality contracts.
secondly, we must start with education and its proper relationship to work in the immediate environment of each young person, but also with the promotion of mobility and the real existence of a european economic and work area.
we can only hope that the council and parliament will soon reach agreement on a sustainable solution.
it could appeal to the credibility of the european union and the need for our partners to trust that we will meet our international commitments; or to the fulfilment of the agreements of the european council, which, for example, at its last meeting agreed on the need to invest and prepare the economies of the member states to meet needs in transport, energy or telecommunications.
the most worrying thing is that these events are taking place in a scandalously arbitrary legal environment, where the basic rights of detainees are constantly violated.
we want a more ambitious industrial policy, support for the social economy and smes, promote technological and sustainable innovation, and improve economic performance.
we have many reasons for this commitment: the pressure of migration, which is constantly increasing; the threat to our security due to the instability of the region; the energy problems which force us to look to the maghreb; or the economic potential for our economies of a mediterranean union with stable and growing countries.
we can also talk about infrastructure or even energy, which is one of the great challenges facing the european union in the future.
such artificially low investment in research will also negatively impact on other initiatives such as the digital agenda, the energy technologies plan and our climate change policies.
if you want a europe of einsteins, curies, cajales and hawkings, if you want a europe that leads the world - not only in science but also in technological and industrial innovation and in the creation of sustainable and quality jobs - if you want this europe and not one that is content to let others invent, innovate and manufacture, the only logical position is to reject the unacceptable cuts proposed by the council and to mobilise the contingency margin and the flexibility instrument provided for in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 to provide the programme with the resources it deserves.
but the most negative aspect we are seeing today is the cut that the council is announcing for next year compared to 2013. this reduction is concentrated in health, environment, climate change or marie curie programmes, which should be among the priority sectors to receive funding.
it's not just that they turn a blind eye to climate change, it's that many states are actively working in the wrong direction.
it is still a game of buying and selling emission allowances, a game of big corporations; there is no political will or vision to develop an economy based on renewable energy; and it is clear that they will not meet the already insufficient obligations for 2030 in climate policy.
and now they nominate mr arias cañete as european commissioner for climate and energy.
it's a bad choice for the environment.
let's act, let's address the structural causes of climate change now and change the system that generates them.
the public sector must finance the transition to economic models based on renewable energy, food sovereignty, public transport, education... it's not utopia, it's social justice, it's economic justice, and it's what the climate needs.
that is why it is essential that the european union, which has been the undisputed leader against climate change in the past, does not turn its back on ban ki-moon.
climate change is not fought by penalizing renewable energy, or by selling natural spaces to the highest bidder, or by unwisely opening the door to fracking, or by betting exclusively on fossil fuels.
that's not how you fight climate change.
with unprecedented concentrations of greenhouse gases and seven million deaths from air pollution - some of them in my province, where mr arias cañete also lives - heads of state and representatives of the most polluting transnational corporations in the world are meeting in new york to continue to dictate to us the policies that fill their pockets.
we are told by social and citizen movements: commitments must be made now, renewable energy, local production and consumption.
my adopted compatriot, mr cañete, who has just put his shares in oil companies up for sale, has been appointed commissioner for climate action and energy.
we have already spoken in this parliament about climate change: circulating food that we can produce in our villages on a daily basis for short circuits means wasting energy and means emitting greenhouse gases, which also cause climate change.
it is also time to finally unlock the necessary reform of the 1988 directive on the transparency of the pricing of medicines and their reimbursement, and to take measures to ensure the sustainability of the various national health systems.
first, i think it is very important that european companies that invest and work in this world that has globalized production, that invest and work in latin america, do so respecting the labor rights and environmental rights of the communities where they operate.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
despite the significant progress made, particularly in energy and education, we must recognize that we are not on track in all areas.
the ministers for the environment, cohesion, education, culture, transport, energy and telecommunications will also be making their contribution.
i fully agree with you that the most pressing challenge ahead of us is to create sustainable growth and generate jobs.
they must not only address fiscal consolidation, but also structural reforms that can create sustainable and socially-balanced growth.
one such example is environmental taxation.
but let us not be mistaken: sustainable growth will not be possible with a juncker plan alone, however ambitious it may be; it will not be possible to achieve sustainable growth with strong action by the european central bank, however ambitious it may be.
to have sustainable growth, we need the joint action of all the actors involved: european institutions and member states; we need reforms: reforms in the member states and reforms in europe too.
we therefore need joint action by europe and the member states to consolidate and achieve sustainable growth.
we know that behind this expression we could have elements of positive change towards a more just, sustainable and equitable society, but the reality is just the opposite: 'structural reforms' is the euphemism that has been used to weaken public pension systems, to give more market share to private systems, much less sustainable.
that's why, dear friends, i won't waste your time.
we must be able to have this grand coalition for europe because i believe we have enough energy to win the battles of the present and the battle of the future.
but it will also be exceptional in substance: first, the european council is called upon to reach agreement on the 2030 framework for the european union's climate and energy policies.
it is in the interest of all of us to develop a coherent european climate and energy policy, which ensures affordable energy prices, industrial competitiveness, security of supply and the achievement of climate and environmental objectives.
it is certainly not an easy task, if our overall objective is clear, each member state has its own vision, reflecting a number of factors such as the accessibility of energy sources, their industrial capacity and energy demand and also the different environmental cultures.
the agreement should be global and the key point is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
to achieve this, six main chapters have been defined covering the eu-ets emission trade system and non-ets areas, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, the achievement of a fully functioning internal energy market, energy security and governance.
a successful outcome of this european council would allow the european union to present a contribution in line with the agreed timetable of the unefccc in warsaw for the conclusion of a comprehensive climate agreement by the first quarter of 2015. the step our leaders must take is therefore extremely important.
in addition to energy and climate issues, the european council is called upon to discuss the economic situation.
the summit will seek to agree on the 2030 climate and energy framework and discuss the economy and external developments, including ukraine, and we will also address the ebola epidemic.
agreeing a new framework on energy and climate policies for the period up to 2030 at this european council will show how credible we are in transforming our economies and societies towards a low-carbon future.
they have put our union firmly into a position of global leadership and were widely recognised as a key contributor in the global fight against climate change.
by combining two strands – environment and energy – consensus was possible.
there are economic advantages to climate-friendly innovation and investment and an economic case for cost-effective decarbonisation is clearer than ever.
we also broadened the scope to include energy security.
recent challenges to our security and the strategic dimension have given energy security concerns even more impetus.
energy security must therefore be part of the climate agenda.
yet sadly our european climate ambition is far from being matched by the two most important polluters globally – the united states and china.
there is now a renewed momentum towards a global, binding climate treaty to be agreed in paris next year.
the commission has made every effort in this regard by taking the lead in promoting trilateral talks on sensitive issues such as trade and energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources, such as wind and solar energy, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources.
try to put in place a new economic, environmental, sustainable policy in the european union.
the ec will decide on the 2030 climate and energy targets.
juncker called for a 'green europe, a leader in renewable energy' and now we have to make it happen.
the ep set out its position in february 2014 and, although the s$d group was more ambitious, we must not lower the ep's approved demands (30% on renewables, binding on member states; savings and efficiency -40% binding and -40% emissions) to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, to preserve the environment and to secure energy supply.
this requires progress in the unification of the energy market in europe, with the development of interconnections being crucial, an objective which has been 'lagging' because of the lack of political will to allow the existence of energy islands, such as the iberian peninsula, which can play a relevant role in the supply of gas to the rest of europe, as well as in the development of renewable energies.
and that is why we have decided to concentrate our efforts on the core programmes of the europe 2020 strategy, which are aimed at promoting growth, research, employment and competitiveness; we improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises or we put more money into erasmus or marie curie grants; we also want to allocate funds to energy infrastructure, and we have not forgotten farmers and fishermen, nor the damage caused by the russian veto on our products.
in the first act of the work, the european commission proposes a budget for 2015 that is stingy: no cohesion, no r & d, no stimulus against unemployment, no promotion of renewable energies, nothing.
we are talking about a sustainable europe, compatible with an industrial policy that supports europe's entrepreneurs.
it has to fight climate change, but re-industrialize at the same time.
from spain, many members will support him, but we will ask him as representatives of the spanish people that his first objective be to create jobs, especially for young people; that he not forget the farmers, who are now paying for a foreign policy that they have not made as a result of the russian veto; that there be a common immigration policy, because irregular immigration is a common problem; and that there be energy interconnections to save citizens from expensive energy that might not come.
the environment and energy will be the subject of discussions by those who in the past have favoured polluting industries and climate change, even in their private businesses.
we are voting against a commission plagued by conflicts of interest, complicit in and promoter of austerity, complacent about failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration or energy.
we are voting against a commission whose name is tainted by conflicts of interest, by its complicity and collusion with austerity policies, by its complacency with failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration and energy.
we are voting against a commission whose name is tainted by conflicts of interest, by its complicity and collusion with austerity policies, by its complacency with failed, unfair and unworkable policies on employment, immigration and energy.
neither the fight against austerity, nor the urgent need to restore lost social justice to europeans, nor the determined commitment to a shift from an energy and productive model to one of sustainability, are among the priorities of this commission, and therefore we do not share its project and cannot vote for it.
that is, the cultivation of agricultural products and the rearing and maintenance of dairy or meat animals, as well as the maintenance of land in good agricultural and environmental conditions.
i strongly support a single seat for this house in order to save waste and money, and also in order to be more environmentally-friendly in our work.
furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet.
furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet.
furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet.
furthermore, the treaty does not consider the environmental impact of exchanging goods from the other side of the planet.
the circulation of a huge amount of goods, including food that we eat every day and that we might find nearby, leads to a very large increase in greenhouse gas emissions, which further aggravates the climate crisis.
the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in this context, the important role of the eu budget in stimulating sustainable growth, boosting job creation and reducing macroeconomic imbalances in the eu should be underlined.
the eu must invest in r & d & i, modern infrastructure, sustainable energy, education and social inclusion and facilitate access to finance for smes.
it is necessary to pursue a balanced long-term strategy for growth- and investment-friendly fiscal consolidation, while always seeking the sustainability and equity of social security systems.
the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle.
- with post-war levels of poverty, especially on europe's periphery; unemployment levels unprecedented, especially among young people; social inequalities that exceed those of the 'belle époque'; a colossal lack of domestic demand compensated by exports that make europe dependent on what is happening in the world; a growing economic and social divergence between the member states; a progressive abandonment of the fight against climate change; a public debt that has skyrocketed in countries undergoing suicidal austerity; unparalleled tax evasion and genuine fiscal dumping between countries to attract capital; a declining intra-european trade and credit and a high risk of deflation; with all these data in view, the real europe is far from being reflected in the de baker report and therefore its proposals, even relatively critical, are not only symptomatic but also demand a strong palette of measures to deal with and resolve its immediate and wrong consequences, and above all, the crisis requires a management that does not address its causes and its consequences.
the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle.
the report is full of rhetoric about socially balanced and sustainable growth, calls for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment to make people believe that we are on the path to the new cycle.
we must encourage the construction of transport and energy infrastructures and reinvigorate the commitment to innovative industries; we must unlock credit so that small and mediumsized enterprises can breathe, invest, generate economic activity and, consequently, employment, something which is particularly important for countries like spain and for regions like my own - galicia - which is suffering from a serious economic and demographic crisis and which needs this european push to get back on the path of convergence.
a pioneering project to develop environmentally efficient technologies and to exploit local resources to produce energy; a project that was born with european aid and which today, when it demonstrates its environmental and economic viability, is going to close because of the greed of the power companies and the ineffectiveness of the regulators.
if we really care about jobs, if we really care about industry, if we really care about development and clean energy - as this new commission told us yesterday - i urge you to work together to prevent profits from being imposed on people again.
madam president, growth according to our strategy 2020 has to be smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the coming years.
there is a real danger that uzbekistan will become another chechnya, and the responsibility for this, ladies and gentlemen, lies with the present political regime of islam karimov, whose advanced age and visible deterioration - not only of his person but also of his environment - make it feared that the transition will be problematic and not peaceful at all.
i welcome the decision of the prosecutor's office to arrest them, which we have been informed of: enough of the climate of impunity that those who do not respect the institutions want to impose.
we want to denounce that this heinous crime adds to a climate of growing impunity in the country and we condemn the continuing crime of enforced disappearances: more than 22 000 cases since 2006. we want to demand that the 43 students who are still missing be returned to their families; we demand that president peña nieto put an end to the climate of impunity by taking steps to ensure that a serious investigation is conducted and that the conviction is upheld; and we expect the mexican government to fight organized crime without a break.
in conclusion, we condemn the latest events with all our energy.
the mexican government has our full support in its determined fight against organized drug trafficking, police corruption and the climate of violence and impunity that exists in some states of the country, particularly against activists committed to the promotion and defence of human rights.
we european socialists believe that international trade should not be an end in itself but a means of promoting sustainable development, respect for human rights, labour standards and the environment in the world, in the framework of political dialogue.
with the economic recovery, the new european commission has set out to make progress on social issues as a key measure to emerge stronger from the crisis, with the aim of achieving sustainable growth.
the next item is the joint debate on:- recommendation by petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (09828/2014 - c8-0130/2014 - 2014/0083 ((nle)) (a8-0020/2014), and- report by petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part (2018/284/c170022 (ini)) (a8-0022/2014).
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment and will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment.
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
in return, moldova is required to reform key sectors such as justice, energy and other public sectors to bring them closer to the eu acquis in return for free markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is essential to establish a genuine dialogue leading to a democratic political solution and laying the foundations for building a new democratic state of law that will ensure stability and peace in the country in a sustainable way.
i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on all parties to engage in a genuine dialogue, which is essential to achieve a democratic political solution that lays the foundations for building a new democratic state of law that will ensure stability and peace in the country in a sustainable way.
we are facing a historic opportunity to set new, if not even more ambitious, goals to end poverty, inequality and environmental destruction.
we will also tackle the fight against climate change.
ships belonging to the environmental organisation greenpeace, which was peacefully protesting against the start of repsol's oil exploration, were attacked by boats of the spanish navy.
and we defend with all the force of reason the right of civil society to protest against the ecological crimes of its rulers.
because, of course, i agree with you, with your headlines, with the triple a social that mr juncker refers to, with putting the efficiency of the euro and the sustainability of our social model on the same level.
it is true that tough measures have been taken, but they have been taken to ensure the sustainability and viability of the union as a whole, thus avoiding a situation that would have been much worse.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
- i voted in favour of this report because it covered fundamental issues such as the fight against inequality, the establishment of binding rules on corporate social responsibility, an eu trade strategy with the aim of maintaining and protecting social and environmental standards, while rejecting all forms of social or environmental dumping.
this requires the definition of priority areas for poverty eradication, the fight against inequalities and sustainable development, the defence of human rights, efforts to prevent conflict, post-conflict recovery and peacebuilding and the promotion of lasting peace.
it is now necessary to promote and support a new post-2015 framework that includes the sustainability and growth goals of the international community, guided by the united nations.
in this sense, actions from an approach based on human rights, peace and the eradication of poverty in a framework of sustainable and responsible growth point us to a path that is certainly humanistic, with a return to the recognition of the person as the centre of decision-making that guides public policies.
i therefore support a universal development framework that, in both developed and developing countries, addresses human rights violations, inequalities - including gender and disability inequalities - armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, lack of property rights, lack of land rights, limited access to health services - including sexual and reproductive health services - education, resource scarcity, loss of biodiversity, corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion, unemployment and crises.
i voted in favour of this report because it covered key issues such as the fight against inequality, the establishment of binding rules on corporate social responsibility, and an eu trade strategy aimed at maintaining and protecting social and environmental standards, while rejecting all forms of social or environmental dumping.
achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change.
- i voted in favour of the resolution because current policies focus only on economic growth without recognising the need for an inclusive and sustainable approach.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on employment and the social aspects of the europe 2020 strategy in view of the need to refocus european policies on achieving inclusive, sustainable and inclusive economic growth for the whole of european society.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change.
with the europe 2020 strategy, european leaders committed to reducing poverty by 20 million people between 2010 and 2020. however, instead of decreasing, poverty has gone from 118 million people in 2010 to 123 million in 2013. this is totally unacceptable and states must implement policies to create jobs, growth and competitiveness, but with an inclusive, sustainable and respectful approach to people's rights.
i believe we must increase investment in the fight against unemployment, poverty and social exclusion to put europe back on the path to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy would require an end to austerity policies, which are putting pressure on wages and employment, and the launch of new, binding, number-based initiatives to create and protect jobs and to promote training, research and innovation, education, poverty reduction and the fight against climate change.
often these laws are passed because it would not be considered good in our environment to reject them, but then they do not move forward because there is too much laxity in their implementation, not enough funds are allocated to them, or they are simply forgotten.
europe is made up of citizens of the world and it opens its doors to other citizens of the world, those who have come to us in search of a humane welcome and a better environment.
mr president, as has already been said here, the spanish government is violating all existing and future legislation by summarily expelling people, without asking where they come from or where they are going and, of course, without asking whether they wish to seek asylum - and, as has already been said, this is another of the great victims of this waste in the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i will try not to waste time.
our foremost priority at the commission is to create an environment conducive to growth so that businesses can create jobs and our economies can prosper once more.
reforms improve the business environment, increase investment prospects and profit.
and to facilitate private investment, i repeat, we need reforms, reform programmes to improve the business environment and also the introduction of new financial instruments.
we need to make long-term financing available for projects that contribute towards our common priorities for europe: energy, digital, transport, and research and innovation.
what it is not is an expensive cash handout which will damage our public-sector finances and have no longer-term sustainable impact.
together they will enable us to start moving quickly and also to deliver sustainable investment for the long term.
we need to work with the member states to renew europe with structural reforms which create a more favourable investment environment and better competitiveness and create more growth and jobs.
we want to create a single market in the energy, digital, capital, public procurement and services areas.
there are many people who want to invest in the energy sector, but until they have an energy union they cannot do so as easily as, say, in the food sector.
i will also support my fellow commissioners in completing the single market in energy, the digital sector and transport.
mr president, mr commissioner, kyoto was a great decision to ensure that the future of humanity is at risk from climate change.
but the effects that should have been obtained by the full implementation of the kyoto protocol have been held back by two wrong decisions, by two wrong approaches: that of the developed countries, which have believed that to get out of the crisis one had to abandon the policies of sustainability and the fight against climate change, and that of the underdeveloped countries, which have come out, because they have believed that growth is not compatible with respect for the environment.
yet during this time, the evidence of climate change has continued to grow.
mr president, we need to develop an ecologically sustainable economic model, which, in my view, means laying the foundations for a real and credible transition to an ecological economic model, as a means, of course, to achieve real progress that is inclusive of all people, and i am certainly not talking only at european level.
when we talk about fighting climate change, we are talking about transforming the current model; we are talking about social, economic and environmental justice, that is, an alternative model very different from the current one, a model that must integrate, in turn, mobility and energy policies with public planning, policies of spatial planning, consumption and production processes, waste management, a new model of taxation on environmental bases.
mr president, the european union is presenting itself as a leader at the climate change summit, but the reality is starting to be less accurate.
for example, in spain there has been an increase in emissions of 5.2 per cent for the electricity generation sector, even during the crisis, according to data from the national institute of statistics.
the european union continues to support electricity companies, which use the most expensive and polluting energy sources - such as coal and gas - and increase the cost of electricity while increasing energy poverty.
out of the picture are emissions imported from international trade, including the failed european emissions trading system, hot air purchases, etc.
if we take the european union as a whole, the carbon footprint increases by 25 percent when we include imports.
the most polluting ones have been 'fed' at the expense of emissions trading and their use has become a source of surplus for the companies themselves.
mr president, commissioner, we in the european union have made countless efforts to combat climate change, both in the conferences of the parties and in our internal policies.
and that we're only responsible for 11% of emissions.
we are on track to meet our commitment to reduce emissions by 20% by 2020 and this is thanks to research, new technologies, the promotion of renewable energy, new standards for car emissions and the replacement of energy sources by less polluting ones.
we need an international agreement to unify the environmental conditions under which industrial activity, agriculture, energy generation and transport take place around the world.
european citizens and businesses cannot continue to bear the cost of fighting climate change.
the commission and the member states must use all the resources available to achieve a balanced agreement by next year, in which everyone is equally committed to the fight against climate change, as the european union is committing itself.
mr president, it is not the fight against climate change that is the burden of the citizens in terms of costs.
it is the change in policies of some governments, as is the case of spain, which has stopped betting on renewable energies and that has been a blow to those families who had invested in it.
don't get us confused this parliament has always had a vocation to fight climate change and we cannot take a step back.
- parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit.
when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement.
we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority.
we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism.
to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race.
parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
- the text of the resolution stresses the urgency of meeting international climate commitments now to keep the temperature rise below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and to increase the commitment to reduce emissions by up to 50% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
the resolution insists on making lima the decisive pre-summit to the achievement of binding global commitments in paris 2015, including the definitive mobilization of climate finance to reach the joint goal of usd 100 billion annually by 2020.
in writing.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit.
when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement.
we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority.
we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism.
to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 united nations conference on climate change bearing in mind that climate change represents a serious and irreversible threat to our society and to the biodiversity of our planet.
if we do not act decisively and swiftly, climate change can trigger unprecedented effects that pose a serious threat to the very existence of society.
the union has always been fully aware of this serious problem and has been at the forefront of taking action to tackle it, so we must continue to move towards sustained progress in the environment, the economy and industry - three strands of the same european objective - in order to continue to be an example for the rest of the world to follow in the future.
- parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe group, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the gue/ngl group which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system (ets) as a global and european instrument for combating climate change.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but that it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
- i am voting in favour of the european parliament's position for the next cop 20 meeting, i am voting in favour of what the group of the european people's party has refused to support: political will for more ambitious emission reductions and binding targets for energy efficiency and renewables.
we socialists will continue to strive to eradicate poverty, improve social welfare, reduce inequality, but we are committed to doing so without destroying the environment globally.
parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
- the lima summit must be decisive in preparing the paris conference next year, which i hope will mark binding and tangible commitments, also with reference to the definitive mobilisation of climate finance to achieve the joint objective of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the latest report presented a few weeks ago by the united nations intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) is very worrying and in this respect i have already asked a parliamentary question to find out what action the new commissioner for the environment will take.
each new piece of information confirms the potential irreversible impact on the climate if concrete measures are not taken to contribute to a more sustainable environment.
the report confirms the increasing global warming and warns that the global temperature in the next decade may rise above 2°c.
parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit.
when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement.
we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority.
we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism.
to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race.
- parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit.
when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement.
we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority.
we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism.
to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race.
it would make a major contribution to reducing greenhouse gases by implementing agricultural and food policies that respect the right of peoples to food sovereignty; by promoting production models based on agroecology, with farmers producing food and by strengthening local and local markets.
– climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and must thus be addressed at international level.
the goals of climate change policies can only be reached by turning the general course of development towards ecological sustainability in both the developed and the developing countries.
- parliament finally votes a resolution with a different undertone: the hope that lima will really be the prelude to a binding agreement that will allow us to put a stop to the climate emergency in paris.
we cannot therefore accept amendment no 9 tabled by the ppe, which seeks to undermine two of the central pillars of the resolution by removing the requirement for binding targets also for energy efficiency and the promotion of renewable energies.
we also reject the amendments tabled by the eug which seek to cast doubt on the effectiveness of the emissions trading system as a means of combating climate change at global and european level.
we spanish socialists believe that the ets needs to correct its shortcomings, but it remains an excellent tool for achieving the common objectives of reducing greenhouse gases.
i voted in favour of this resolution on the lima climate summit.
when we talk about climate negotiations, we move with hope, but we always end up with discouragement.
we have to understand that this climate crisis that we're experiencing is a global crisis and it has to be our priority.
we should therefore not only be concerned about co2 emissions but also about the logic of market capitalism.
to fight climate change, we should refuse to participate in this destructive race.
steel is, along with energy, one of the keys to this process because of its horizontal presence in all industrial production.
our legislation must assume that we are competing in a global market and we cannot allow third parties' social or environmental gaps to help them place their products here.
steel is and needs stability and that means energy, finance and insurance on a level playing field for all.
mr president, the european steel industry has problems which require a common plan of action: the high energy costs, which are the result of liberalization in favour of private oligopolies, and the challenges arising from ecological adaptation, which cannot be solved by emission markets.
one of them is the management of emission allowances, because we must continue to lead the fight against climate change, but we must fight for competitive prices for industry in order to offer a stable future to the sector.
steel, like much of industry, is energy intensive, and electricity prices have reached unsustainable levels in many member states.
it is vital, alongside climate change policy and security of supply, to offer energy prices, competitive electricity prices to industry that do not represent an insurmountable obstacle.
in this connection, in my country we have in recent days seen the result of a new mechanism for electricity pricing for energy-intensive industry.
efforts should be made to help developing countries improve in other areas, such as the provision of safe drinking water and sanitation, hygiene, sustainable agriculture, fisheries, the management of natural resources, the achievement of a healthy environment, measures to support women to ensure a healthy life for them and for all members of their households.
we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker.
we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker.
we cannot vote in favour of the motion of censure put to the vote today because it was tabled by forces on the extreme right who only want to make political profit from the climate created by the luxembourg tax scandal without criticising the system that juncker represents.
we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker.
i cannot vote in favour of this motion of censure which is before us because it conceals the hypocrisy of the far right, which only seeks to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without questioning or criticising the system represented by juncker.
we cannot sign this motion of censure because it is put forward by the extreme right, which is only trying to take advantage of the climate created by the luxleaks scandal, without making any criticism of the system represented by juncker.
impact assessments are a key tool for decision-making in all eu institutions and for providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence of the economic, social and environmental impacts, the added value of eu action, the regulatory and administrative burden to be expected, and the costs and benefits of alternative pathways for all parties involved in the legislative process.
in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity.
in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity.
impact assessments are a key tool for decision-making in all eu institutions and for providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced evidence of the economic, social and environmental impacts, the added value of eu action, the regulatory and administrative burden to be expected, and the costs and benefits of alternative pathways for all parties involved in the legislative process.
in our experience in parliament we have seen how the committee's impact assessments argue against the very legislative proposals that the commission presents, for example, by showing greater environmental sensitivity.
progress is needed, and fast, to correct this situation by investing in quality network infrastructures that enable citizens and businesses to thrive in the new environment.
progress is needed, and fast, to correct this situation by investing in quality network infrastructures that enable citizens and businesses to thrive in the new environment.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction of funds for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be wrong and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, peasant and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction in funding for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be a mistake and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, small and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
it recommends a multi-sectoral approach to ensure policy coordination in rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water and sanitation, social security and education.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which considers the reduction of funds for agriculture in the 10th european development fund (edf) to be wrong and calls on the eu to increase the assistance provided under its development aid programmes to achieve sustainable agricultural production, based on small, peasant and medium-scale farming, and aimed primarily at local consumption, and to invest in participatory plans targeted at national level and implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
the request for approval sent to parliament by the council bases its draft decision on a single article of the treaty, article 192 on the environment, whereas the commission had based its initial proposal on articles 192 and 207, the latter relating to the common commercial policy.
in our view, the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step to ensure the full capacity of the european union to pursue its environmental policy objectives.
i hope this long discussion on the calculation methods and reporting requirements pursuant to article 7a of the fuel quality directive can come to an end so that member states can start to transpose these elements of the 2020 climate and energy package.
we must now ensure that the member states can put mitigation measures in place to achieve the 6 % greenhouse gas reduction target in fuels by 2020. the council has reached a qualified majority on the commission’s october proposal.
the commission would like to recall that the purpose of article 7a of the fuel quality directive is to reduce the carbon content of fuel used for road transport.
the aim of the directive is not to discourage the use of any specific type of fuel but to ensure that appropriate mitigation measures are put in place to achieve the 6 % greenhouse gas reduction target by 2020. the commission is convinced that the fuel quality directive’s greenhouse gas reduction target can be implemented effectively both domestically and abroad through the proposal.
however, the commission will be evaluating the experience with article 7a of the directive as part of its better regulation programme for the period after 2020. all options will be analysed to bring down greenhouse gas emissions from transport fuels in line with the overall target of achieving a reduction of at least 40 % by 2030. all stakeholders, including parliament, will be invited to bring forward their views among others at the conference to be organised in the course of 2015.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group.
they know very well that this fuel emits many more greenhouse gases than conventional oil refining - they know this because it is written in the commission's reports, in their reports.
as we have been denouncing, the council and commission's free trade agenda, the agreements with canada, with the united states, are conditional on the abolition of the laws protecting european citizens from environmental abuses, and this is a clear example of this.
these setbacks exacerbate the inconsistencies in the union's energy efficiency policies.
for example, the intention to reduce emissions by using biofuels ends up in land grabbing and serious imbalances in the agricultural ecosystem and human food.
we don't need patches; a sustainable alternative is possible.
and thirdly, because investing together in research and innovation allows us to improve employment and living conditions in the mediterranean and to promote sustainable and inclusive growth in these regions.
in addition, food security from land and marine resources is threatened by pollution, overexploitation and limited availability of fertile land.
prima is pursuing innovative solutions to improve the efficiency and sustainability of food production and water supply, avoiding food-related diseases.
this ambitious objective responds to priority challenges for mediterranean countries by promoting good social and individual health, access to food and water and people's well-being, while fostering sustainable socioeconomic growth.
i think prima should also address the challenges of the blue economy, ensuring the sustainability of its actions.
the objective of prima should be to focus research and innovation towards sustainably exploiting aquatic living resources while at the same time protecting biodiversity, ecosystem services and the resource base.
secondly, prima must focus on food production systems that foster sustainable production of safe and healthy food in vibrant local economies.
the common research and initiative priorities must be focused towards a low energy, low external input, low emission and low waste economy, and support the creation of vibrant local economies and assure food production supply chains.
prima is based on the principles of co-ownership, common interest and shared benefit, all of which are necessary to ensure the sustainable management of common resources and shared regional responsibility within the framework of the union for the mediterranean.
it goes without saying that the problem, albeit limited, that this programme will initiate is of great importance: soil conservation, the management of scarce water waste, the development of sustainable agriculture and aquaculture are urgent challenges in this region.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been talking a lot about the security of energy supply in europe.
however, i think it is an incomplete debate if we do not address it, if we do not talk about energy poverty, one of the greatest and most important inequalities of the 21st century.
it is not enough for energy to reach europe if more than 50 million european citizens cannot afford it, even to cover their most basic needs.
this demographic crisis affects the continent's own sustainability, its economic vitality and the survival of our social model and our model of territorial cohesion.
today, putting debt levels – both private and public – on a sustainable track by making massive budget cuts to basic welfare systems across europe has dramatic social consequences and is damaging the european recovery.
we believe that in order to achieve a genuine counter-cyclical approach, we need a legislative proposal that could codify, in a revised six-pack, a qualified treatment for investments generating large societal and environmental benefits.
nor will there be any credibility, commissioner, if we do not also speak imperatively of more europe in terms of the energy union, the single market - which in spain does not even have a single market - the capital market, etc.
‒ my vote in favour of the revision of directive 93/5/eec, which has become totally obsolete, as unanimously agreed by the coordinators of the committee on the environment.
let us respect biodiversity and prevent the high level of exploitation of certain plants and animals from putting them at risk of extinction and destroying their natural habitats.
accession by the european union will mean more coherent and transparent action and will make it possible to take more comprehensive and effective action to achieve its environmental policy objectives, and that is why i am voting in favour of this accession.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies.
it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, known collectively as 'horizontal and complementary' policies.
it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
it covers cooperation in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
given the conditions of these regions - remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate, and dependence on a small number of products which adversely affect their economic development - i think it is appropriate to approve these measures.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, in accordance with article 6 of the egf regulation, it is necessary to ensure that the egf supports the reintegration of workers made redundant into stable employment, since egf support can only co-finance active labour market measures resulting in long-term sustainable employment.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
however, we consider the european globalisation adjustment fund to be insufficient in the current economic climate.
this will be done by complementing the telecommunications regulatory environment, modernising copyright rules, simplifying rules for consumers making online and digital purchases, enhancing cyber-security, and mainstreaming digitalisation.
we will take steps towards a european energy union.
it has never been so vital to ensure energy supply security, integrate national energy markets, reduce energy demand in europe, and promote green technology.
at the start of the new legislative cycle, it is time to clear the decks so that time and energy can be invested in those proposals that will have the biggest impact on jobs and growth and which have a good prospect of being adopted in the near future.
that is the case with the energy tax directive, which we propose to withdraw because the council has watered it down so that it no longer meets our environmental objectives of taxing fuel in a way that reflects real energy content and co2 emissions.
this means that we will withdraw the present waste proposal and come back with a more ambitious proposal that will cover the whole of the circular economy, and we will do this in 2015. we will not drag our feet with this.
so, if we withdraw the waste package, it is because we want to put something on the table that is more ambitious and that really can make a huge contribution to a part of the european economy that really needs a boost, which is the circular economy.
we will bring forward, in the course of the ongoing negotiations, a modified proposal which we hope can help bridge this gap by better reflecting synergies with the energy and climate package, and by reducing the administrative burden.
the principle of subsidiarity must be strengthened, and that is right, but i am afraid that in some fundamental areas - for example, the environment - the commission is running out of money - or so it seems - even though we are being told of much more ambitious programmes.
the commission's work programme contains good proposals, such as promoting a digital single market and an energy union, or reducing red tape, but the priority must be to make the investment plan an effective lever for growth and to achieve the promotion of fair and equitable tax legislation.
i particularly welcome the reduction of bureaucracy and the necessary balance between growth, social giving and environmental care.
subsidiarity, competitiveness and tax justice are themes i particularly support in the work of the juncker commission, but also cheap energy and new technologies.
i am aware that many members in this house attach great importance to the implementation of this regulation, particularly when it comes to the requirement for effective implementation by ecuador of relevant human rights, ilo, environmental conventions and international agreements, as well as the procedure to be used in the event that a suspension of preferences is warranted.
of course, we must encourage research in the industrial field and in the field of alternative energy sources.
secondly, spanish voters believe it is important to continue to work for a true energy union, which will ensure our citizens a competitive and sustainable market with sufficient energy interconnections to ensure supply at a reasonable price.
we must intensify the fight against terrorism, solve the problem of the return of foreign fighters and create our own energy to face new challenges.
mr gonzález pons, i think it is very good what you say about the energy industry in europe.
how do you explain that energy in spain is the most expensive in europe?
why is the european energy industry being protected?
i mean, my problem is: why complain about european energy without fixing spanish energy?
secondly, i would say that the spanish government is trying to reduce the cost of energy, the price of energy for the spanish people, but it is also trying to make energy competitive and an instrument of progress for spain and for europe.
the energy mix is a national matter, not a commission matter.
it should allocate public funding to support the diversification of the productive structure of each state, facilitating its adaptation towards an environmentally and socially sustainable model.
it offers no new money, but a huge public subsidy to the investment of large private companies in transport and energy infrastructure, and a lever for the privatization of the management of social services, health, education or housing.
i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution.
i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution.
i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the eu budget pays outstanding payments, it does not offer a sustainable solution.
- i could not vote in favour of this report because, although it proposes a solution to ensure that the outstanding payments are made from the eu budget, it does not offer a sustainable solution.
i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values.
i voted against the resolution and in favour of the commission proposal because the objective of the commission proposal was to establish a methodology which is clear and effective for measuring the 6% reduction in emissions from transport fuels, as set out in article 7 of directive 98/70, and always based on the types of raw materials used in 2010. the resolution of the parliament went further and wanted to restrict a type of crude oil that can be used in the eu and this would have very negative consequences for the european industry which has made large investments to achieve the 6% co2 reduction target and which agrees to apply the proposed methodology.
it is necessary to indicate the greenhouse gas emission intensity, not for the overall product, but for each component of the fuel, so that for each gasoline, diesel, etc.
to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits.
the commission should continue to work towards finding a measurement method that will encourage the use of more sustainable fuels by the production companies and the progressive abandonment of the most environmentally harmful unconventional fuels and raw materials.
the commission's proposal is to measure the greenhouse gas emission intensity of the sum total of the fuel components so that for each petrol, diesel, etc.
to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits.
i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values.
the eu is siding with oil interests with the commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale.
the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
the eu is siding with oil interests with the european commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale.
the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values.
it is necessary to indicate the greenhouse gas emission intensity, not for the overall product, but for each component of the fuel, so that for each gasoline, diesel, etc.
to be used in the eu, its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions is known and therefore whether the product meets the requirements and objectives of the quality directive (6% less intensity by 2020) and other derivative directives on emission limits.
the commission should continue to work towards finding a measurement method that will encourage the use of more sustainable fuels by the production companies and the progressive abandonment of the most environmentally harmful unconventional fuels and raw materials.
the eu is siding with oil interests with the european commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale.
the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
the eu is siding with oil interests with the commission's proposal to implement article 7a of the fuel quality directive, which does not discriminate against the consumption of the dirtiest fuels, thus hindering the objective for which it was created: the reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 2020. scientific studies show that unconventional oils cause higher ghg emissions than conventional oils: 23% more for oil from tar sands and 50% more for oil from oil shale.
the eu is thus putting trade agreements (cfta-fta) ahead of its already unambitious climate commitments.
i think the commission should withdraw its draft council directive and present a new one to the committee based on the obligation to declare the default mean values of greenhouse gas emission intensity broken down by type of raw material in relation to petrol and diesel, while allowing suppliers to declare the actual values.
my vote in favour of this motion for a resolution is justified because i believe that the methodology proposed by the commission for the draft directive on the quality of fuels needs to be criticised, as it discourages the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the fossil fuel production chain.
the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment.
the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments.
the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment.
the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments.
the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment.
the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments.
the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
the motion for a resolution, like many of its kind in this field, proposes one-off solutions which do not solve the structural problems facing both our traditional industrial sectors and our increasingly fragile environment.
the resolution does not specify specific measures to have an impact on the generation of added value (r & d & i) and to preserve those industrial sectors which are strategic for europe, giving priority to energy efficiency and investment in appropriate technological developments.
the resolution also fails to address the real challenge that europe continues to face: the urgent need to reform the european environmental tax system so that there is real regulation of human activities and their impacts on health, ecosystems and also on local industrial fabric.
on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the serious abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry.
on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry.
we must commit ourselves so that the sector can, through innovation, make possible quality and energy-efficient products.
the resolution addresses the competitiveness of the steel industry in the internal and global markets, the need for investment in research and innovation, concrete measures to reduce the high energy costs facing the sector and the need to urgently modernise trade defence instruments to protect the european industry from social and environmental dumping by third countries.
an amendment tabled by the spanish socialist members of the itre committee has been incorporated, requesting that measures be taken to ensure that the current scheme of state aid to energy-intensive industries does not create distortions in the internal market, so that a level playing field is guaranteed for companies and that energy-intensive industries can have a stable framework for their investments and guarantee employment.
on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry.
i would like to stress the importance of the resolution we have adopted today, which stresses the need to achieve these objectives, and the fact that, at the initiative of the socialist group, the resolution includes the need for europe to have a stable european framework for supporting energy-intensive industries, avoiding distortions in the internal market, accelerating the renewal of trade defence instruments to combat unfair competition, continuing to support ccs pilot projects and boosting investment in the modernisation of european-based plants.
the steel sector is a good example of how an economic sector with a long history has been able to adapt to new technologies, reducing their environmental impact.
eu steel products meet stricter social, environmental and economic standards than elsewhere, and the sector must be protected by measures to prevent its outsourcing outside the eu.
on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry.
on the one hand, europe remains unmoved by the gross abuses of the energy and financial oligopolies which are suffocating industry.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the political climate in the country needs improving.
this is a violation that is also contrary to the objectives and principles of the national dialogue announced by the government in early 2014. it is clear that such a public debate on the foundations and policies of the state cannot succeed in the absence of a climate of freedom of expression for citizens and until the weapons are laid down.