- the proposals on the environment are the ones most concerned with our future.
environmental protection is a growing concern today and this proposal is another step in the right direction.
in order to ensure the sustainability of the companies participating in public procurement and thus of the economy, the price-quality ratio, rather than mere cheapness, must be assessed first.
− i voted in favour of the proposal by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the honey directive, which endorses the position of the european court of justice by legally classifying pollen from gmos as an ingredient of honey, rather than a natural constituent.
small agricultural holdings not only produce agriculture products but also maintain the land and nature to ensure environmental sustainability and offer jobs in the countryside.
the european commission's climate and energy policy framework of 22 january 2014 addresses, among other issues, energy prices and costs.
the solutions proposed are also not new increased competition in the internal energy market, energy saving measures, the development of network infrastructure and the establishment of a common eu front against energy importing countries.
however, it is surprising that the eu's long-term climate and energy policy framework, presented on the same day, does not include any proposals on energy saving.
the question of how to develop domestic energy resources, in particular renewable sources, is also unanswered, given that eu spending on energy imports has increased from eur 150 billion in 2004 to eur 421 billion in 2012. i believe that ambitious targets, equitably distributed among member states and in line with the commission's own impact assessments, both in terms of energy savings and renewable energy, are the key to controlling energy prices and costs.
lastly, we need an eu-us joint kind of marshall plan to provide for long-term stability and create conditions for sustainable revival.
as a supporter of ambitious climate and energy policies, i supported the joint envi-itre report in the plenary vote today.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and increasing renewable energy and energy efficiency are important issues that help improve the eu's competitiveness and reduce energy costs.
the effects of high energy prices are felt by everyone in their daily lives, so it is important to find less expensive alternatives.
our over-dependence on energy imports is a cause for concern, and better use of resources and energy security are issues that cannot be ignored.
in order to reduce import dependency, increase energy security and lower energy prices, it is necessary to increase the use of renewable energy, which is why i support a 40% renewable energy target.
this objective is also necessary in the context of climate change!
it is important that energy and climate policies are consistent and mutually reinforcing, in line with the 20/20/20 objectives.
reducing co2 emissions alone is not enough we must consistently implement energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the eurobarometer surveys show that europeans themselves are in favour of promoting renewable energy.
i am opposed to a proposal that calls for a common goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
a flexible trading mechanism would allow more successful renewable energy producers, such as my home country of estonia, to sell their surpluses to other member states this would promote intra-eu business and take account of the differences between member states.
focusing on the domestic market for small-scale producers would help to ensure a stable development of the sector and reduce the ecological footprint created by, for example, the transport of live animals from my home country to slaughterhouses in a neighbouring country, the russian federation.
the european union must not waste its energy in finding solutions to problems.
the cultivation of varieties should be part of the common agricultural policy as it is important both for agricultural production and for sustainability.
in my view, connecting europe (energy, transport and telecoms) should be our number one priority if we are aiming at a fully integrated european union and a fully integrated single market.
this is very welcome, as it increases road safety on our roads and environmental protection in relation to vehicles.
motor vehicles are a major source of pollution and have an impact on both nature and people, so it is important to reduce emissions from poorly maintained vehicles.
the purpose of the motor vehicle roadworthiness test package is to strengthen roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles in order to improve road safety and environmental protection, with a view to improving the efficiency of inspection and testing procedures for vehicles in circulation.
it is appropriate to reduce the scope of checks to vehicle owners who regularly maintain their vehicles and comply with road safety and environmental standards.
of course, this behaviour is unacceptable, but before we start pointing fingers at the rest of the world, we need to get things right at home in europe and ensure effective and sustainable data protection.
european aviation in this form is neither sustainable nor competitive.
as for the thematic issues that were also mentioned, the commission continues to work on five thematic challenges identified in 2009: trade and finance, climate change, food security, migration, and security.
it also prepares the ground for effective cooperation and coordination between member states through an nis network and to oblige market operators in specific sectors, such as energy, transport, financial markets, and food supply, to report certain nis incidents and adopt appropriate measures to ensure nis.
in order to ensure that the european union is independent and not subject to pressure from russia's non-european policy, a change in european energy policy must be initiated.
we must reduce our dependence on russian natural gas and find alternative ways to secure our energy supply.
currently, about 80% of russia's export earnings are tied to the eu energy market, meaning that the russian war machine and the occupation in ukraine are unfortunately directly funded by european gas consumers.
as i said, the council reaffirmed in january that the objective of the european union continues to be the achievement of a comprehensive and long-term settlement which will build international confidence in the exclusively peaceful nature of the iranian nuclear programme, while respecting iran’s legitimate rights to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in conformity with the npt.
in today's vote i supported the recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on noise from motor vehicles and replacement pollution control systems in order to achieve greater environmental savings and to reduce the impact of noise on human health.
although the final decision is a little more lenient on environmental requirements for vehicle manufacturers, it is worth noting that annex iii has been given the appropriate categories for vehicles, buses and trucks.
in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i am in favour of reducing noise and pollution, but this must go hand in hand with the efficient operation of the transport sector.
building synergies between states, schools, universities and businesses to jointly develop adequate curricula, especially digital curricula, will be determinant in ensuring both labour market and sme future sustainability.
by 2014 – that is, by the end of this year – the internal energy market has to be completed.
russia’s actions have dramatically changed the european security environment.
our legislative action should focus on completing the digital single market and energy union.
i would like to especially highlight the importance of paragraph 12 of the ep joint resolution that suggests and supports preparations for introducing further sanctions against russia, including the economic, financial and energy sectors.
i welcome the us administration taking an important step further by introducing new sanctions covering the financial and energy sector.
as for energy, three years ago the eu heads of government decided to set the current year, 2014, as a clear deadline for the completion of an internal energy market.
any delay in completion of the internal energy market will directly undermine our common security.
for example, on the necessity to finance a very cost-intensive fusion energy plant which will only produce results in 2050, if at all.
however, i am happy that thanks to the efforts of the green group the eu budget will be a little greener by reserving more funds for renewable energy, recycling activities and green entrepreneurial innovations.
firstly, ukraine faces an energy crisis.
all this hardly creates the kind of enabling environment that would be conducive to quick and bold reforms.
in developing countries, human rights, poverty, inequality, terrorism, health care, discrimination, armed conflict, climate change and so on are still major problems.
future investments need to flow into innovation and completion of single market - energy, digital, services.
this is possible only if public sector appears fiscally sustainable and stable.
the new updated rules, more integrated solutions and increased cooperation will ensure the sustainable functioning of the financial markets of the 28 member states.
- i supported the resolution on the un climate change conference in peru.
climate change is an irreversible threat to society, and i believe that it must be tackled with the utmost seriousness in international cooperation.
to support sustainable development, we must help the wealthier developing countries one by one and develop their economies in a more environmentally friendly way.
the proposal to reject the commission's directive will mean that estonia is facing a double increase in unemployment in this very sensitive region, certainly social tensions and since it is a very sensitive region on the border with russia - and recalling russia's increasing aggressiveness around the baltic sea - i very much hope that parliament will take into account that this is also an environmental problem, as social tensions rise and the military threat increases.
madam president, i believe it is important to keep in mind that what we want to achieve with this is a reduction of co2 emissions.
this is why investments have been made to restructure the sector and reduce its ecological footprint.
rejecting the proposal of the commission would endanger the investments made and will likely lead to more pollution rather than less.
the bigger picture of energy security in europe and independence from russia also needs to be looked at.
the commission has made the best of situation, to generate the climate of trust for the private investors.
the introduction of a contingency reserve is not sustainable and does not reduce payment errors and renders financial management in general unreliable.
i supported the adoption of the 2015 budget of the european union, as in the current volatile environment the eu needs a stable budget that focuses on strengthening the single foreign policy.
such a delay and hesitation would have sent a negative signal to future investors in a situation where the new european commission is doing everything it can to restore confidence in the private sector and create a stable environment for economic activity.
in my view, this directive meets both the eu's greenhouse gas reduction targets for the transport sector (-6%) and the need to strengthen energy security by providing a level playing field for local energy resources and increasing the security of energy supplies to the eu energy market.
in the case of estonia, it is particularly important to switch from the combustion of fuel oil to the production of fuel oil with a much lower level of pollution.
as a result, there will be positive impact on waste management and emission of pollutants.
i voted against the bill because i consider it important to protect the baltic cod stock in a sustainable way.