the aim is to include social, environmental and labour law perspectives.
it's easy to set a price, but it's harder to put a value on environmental issues.
the public sector, which is under severe economic pressure, has so far found it too easy to neglect the environment, sustainable development and innovation.
the reform we are now undertaking will indeed give us the opportunity to send a clear message that support for small businesses, honest practices, the environment and social justice are an essential part of the european public sector.
all too often we hear the argument that environmental protection is the antithesis of economic and industrial progress.
in reality, technologies, processes and solutions that promote climate protection and sustainable development, such as resource efficiency, are important industrial employers and their importance is only increasing.
over a third of maani cleantech's revenue comes from energy efficiency, and of course renewable energy is also a big part of that.
the commission estimates that renewable energy and energy efficiency could create 5 million new jobs in europe this decade.
last week, the joint meeting of the envi and itre committees endorsed three climate goals for 2030: emissions reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
but it is also an important step towards better integration of environmental and social considerations in public procurement and, above all, towards seeing public procurement as a strategic tool that contributes to the europe 2020 goal of greener, more social and more innovative growth.
these low prices do not meet the quality criteria for public procurement in the environmental and social fields.
mr president, it is important that in this context of public procurement, the areas which are public shared services of strategic importance for the well-being of citizens and the stability of our societies, such as water, energy and transport processes, are defined and leave more public freedom of action and also reduce the pressure of competition.
i personally think that the council and parliament have not been entirely successful in this demarcation, because energy should be a common normal product on the european market.
in fact, we should have a strong european energy market if we want to promote more efficient use of energy, better common energy networks and also the use of renewable energy, so hopefully in the future energy can be included in the normal competitive fields.
the eu's maritime regions have unfortunate examples of serious environmental damage, such as erika and prestige, which have left their mark on the environment.
marine conditions require a clear concept of environmental damage, distinguished from economic, material and moral damage.
the environment deserves it.
i therefore support extending the scope of the directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage to include compensation for environmental damage caused by disasters at sea.
in my own region of the baltic sea, the risk of environmental damage is particularly high, because the traffic is huge and the transports often contain substances whose damage to the ecology of that particular fracking area would be completely unsustainable.
economic and material damage is a secondary factor if irreversible environmental damage has occurred.
the national parliaments should instead focus on finding ethically sustainable solutions to improve employment and overcome the economic recession.
i would like to focus on improving the business and investment climate in serbia.
the serbian economy has grown enormously in recent years, thanks in particular to foreign investment and an improved business climate, and serbia has recovered relatively well from the effects of the european economic crisis.
at the same time, it would have a lot of knowledge about renewable energy.
however, we considered it very important that the introduction should mention that in the light of rapid technological developments, all five of these directives will be reviewed periodically in order to provide for consistent legislation and, on the other hand, to ensure an appropriate level of health and safety protection whenever hazardous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder why so many people seem to fear climate protection more than climate change, which at least threatens the very existence of societies.
it is good that the joint committee meeting has agreed to support the three climate objectives, even though the level of the objectives proposed by the committees is not sufficient.
the commission's own studies show that the three climate objectives would improve employment, energy security and health, and reduce the fossil fuel import bill.
however, the commission does not propose three climate objectives, but a compromise of compromises.
who among us believes in the big leap, that after 2030, in the next 20 years, we will reduce emissions more than in the previous 40 years combined?
in my country, cleantech has already grown larger than the traditional industrial backbone, the paper industry, and over a third of cleantech's revenue comes from energy efficiency.
the commission's decision to backtrack on the binding renewable energy target is not surprising.
the 'triple 20' target agreed in 2007 was unrealistic for renewables: it cannot be achieved in an environmentally or economically sustainable way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to the detriment of the environment.
if we really want more binding targets, i would support country-specific energy self-sufficiency targets.
the goal of energy self-sufficiency for renewables was originally intended to be achieved, but it got out of hand in a way that is not environmentally sustainable.
the plenary voted this week on the parliament's position on the 2030 climate and energy targets.
the debate has focused on whether the package should contain just one binding target greenhouse gas cuts or whether it should be made up of three complementary binding targets.
the three-package of binding targets is a must, both for europe's future economic growth and for the achievement of climate objectives.
in addition, the binding energy efficiency target alone is estimated to reduce europe's energy bill by a total of eur 200 billion per year and create up to 2 million new jobs here.
european business needs a predictable and ambitious climate framework to succeed.
the combination of three binding targets is in line with the climate challenge and is much more ambitious than the commission's proposal a few weeks ago, which sets a single target - a target to cut greenhouse gas emissions.
with the reform of the common fisheries policy, which parliament approved last year, we have taken many important steps towards more sustainable fishing and sustainable fish stocks.
it has meant reduced stocks, reduced biodiversity and fewer jobs.
poaching and illegal fishing are not only harmful to fish stocks and the environment, but also prevent professional fishermen from competing on equal terms.
the commission is working with a natural environmental liability directive, and there is also work on updating a nuclear liability directive.
mr president, the eu's climate and energy policy has been a series of consistently inconsistent decisions over a period of 10 years.
this plenary session removed from the report the fact that between 2005 and 2012, energy prices rose by 38% in europe, while they fell by 4% in the united states.
the commission's decision to back down on the binding renewable energy target is right.
if we really want more binding targets, i would suggest country-specific energy self-sufficiency targets.
energy self-sufficiency was originally intended to be the renewable targets, but it got out of hand in a way that is not environmentally or economically sustainable.
we cannot afford to waste the skills that can lead to growth, to prosperity and, in the long run, to new jobs.
the greatest health benefits and the best european added value come from decisions on the environment, food and transport, for example.
more than 400 000 people are estimated to die prematurely in europe from air pollution.
the environmental organizations are the ones who will be the main advocates of health.
unfortunately, however, the completion of the single internal market is still far from being achieved in areas such as digital network and communications services and the energy market.
no single weather event can be linked to climate change, but all of this is what is predicted to happen with increasingly widespread climate change, and increasingly extreme.
for the eu to do its part to limit climate change to below two degrees, our emissions reduction in 2030 should be at least 50%, not 40% as proposed by the commission.
we've committed to reducing emissions by up to 95 percent by 2050. it will not succeed without binding renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, but they are still being contested.
this month, the un secretary general, and also many military experts, have warned that climate change is a huge security threat.
we need to see it as such and scale climate action accordingly.
the victims of floods and other extremes need our solidarity, but the most important solidarity is action to mitigate climate change.
mr president, the application of forest law to forest management between the european union and indonesia is a very important tool because indonesia is the most important rainforest area and currently has the highest pressures and forest damage, due to, among other things, palm oil production, which seriously threatens biodiversity.
- i voted in favour of the conclusion of the voluntary agreement, as it improves transparency and promotes sustainable forest management worldwide.
we need fresh legislation to provide for taking environmental risks and resource-efficiency risks into account.
the decision is very important for climate protection, as many of the f-gases are very potent greenhouse gases and remain in the atmosphere for a very long time.
the legislator's role is to defend the future, to create a market for existing and functioning solutions that are better for climate protection and the future and that are in demand all over the world, including outside europe.
recently, researchers at the university of east anglia have detected new ozone-depleting gases in the atmosphere.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, parliament is adopting important legislation this week to complement the toolbox of legislation to mitigate climate change.
the legislation now being adopted aims to reduce the production of fluorinated greenhouse gases by phasing them out and promoting their replacement by alternative substances.
sustainable alternatives are already on the market and in use.
these sustainable alternatives can replace almost all new hfc-based equipment now and in the near future.
the montreal protocol, signed to protect the ozone layer, effectively curbed the use of ozone-depleting substances.
to replace these, so-called fluorinated greenhouse gases were used, particularly in refrigeration and air-conditioning systems.
while all other greenhouse gases have decreased, emissions of fluorine have increased by 60 percent since 1990. these gases have a very high atmospheric warming effect relative to other greenhouse gases: f-gases are hundreds or even tens of thousands of times more potent than carbon dioxide.
mr president, talking about jobs, european business leaders have estimated that, with binding renewable energy targets, 570[nbsp ]000 jobs will be created by 2030. can we say ‘no’ to these jobs when 20 million people are unemployed?
president barroso or commissioner rehn, we hope to have binding targets for renewable energy for 2030 in order to get these jobs.
the eu's activities in the arctic are primarily related to combating climate change, researching the region's environment and monitoring changes.
the financial support alone is not enough without a sustainable strategic vision for the exploitation of the site.
a coherent strategy should cover the sustainable use of natural resources, understanding the needs of local people, arctic shipping and the effects of climate change.
the aim is above all to protect the area's fragile environment, which must be taken into account when exploiting natural resources.
in offshore oil and gas drilling, the responsibility for any environmental damage must be borne by the companies.
this can't be a sustainable path.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the terrorist network has also managed to spread to a wider area and the development threatens the energy security of the entire arab world, as gas pipelines have also been attacked.
many of you have heard of the european food safety authority, the agency for medicinal products for human use, or the environment agency.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal.
the agreement reached is therefore a clear loss of credibility for the commission, which should now update its climate policy.
in order to make aviation ets a truly global agreement, we need to take care that an agreement is reached in icao in order to offer the best prospects of ensuring sustainability and global balance in the global aviation sector in the long term.
i think innovation is also the key in our battle against climate change.
this would be the way to set an example for the world in the field of the environment and to take care of our industries.
it is shameful that the eu is backing down on environmental legislation under pressure from the us, russia and china, which has been fuelled by european airlines.
if you think it is too radical to go back to the law we ourselves adopted six years ago, which covered one third of the world's international aviation emissions, i hope you can at least support the envi committee and the airline industry.
i hope that my colleagues will also support the earmarking of the proceeds from the auctioning of emission allowances for climate protection.
this would be a major blow to the criticism of aviation emissions trading by developing countries and china, and it is therefore completely foolish for eu governments to oppose this ear-splitting.
in the common market, this is not sustainable.
there are ce mark falsifications, non-compliant unsafe products, non-compliance with environmental (reach or other) legislation.
and worse, if we are looking for sustainable growth for our companies, there is the question of what happens to those responsible producers in europe that actually obey our legislation and our consumer safety norms.
taking this together with the commission’s 2030 climate and energy package we should work together with the industry to create more innovation and development and thus also new jobs in the union.
without information on the company's environmental policy and social responsibility, it is impossible for the average consumer to assess how responsibly the company is acting and whether the company's behaviour is such that he wants to support the company with his own consumption behaviour.
successful policies need to support businesses that are not only focused on maximising profits, but also on improving the lives of consumers and promoting sustainable development.
as the commissioner said, the commission's intention in the green and white papers was to compare best practice between member states and to encourage member states to build sustainable pension systems.
plastic bags are not the only plastic waste in the oceans and other parts of the environment, but reducing the use of plastic bags is very simple.
unnecessary consumption is always bad, but as far as plastic bags are concerned, we should quickly move to genuinely biodegradable ones, ones that under normal conditions decompose into carbon dioxide, water and biomass.
for example, the agreement must not interfere with the right of the parties to maintain a high level of food security and environmental protection.
we are three years behind the united states and we just need to be able to create a regulatory environment that is favourable to innovation, because the digital market needs rules, but they do not always need harmonisation.
it is clear that we have no time to waste.
the new results of the ipcc regarding the scientific basis of climate change leave no room for hesitation.
i do hope that world leaders will do what un secretary-general ban ki-moon has invited them to do next week, which is to bring bold announcements and actions that will reduce emissions, strengthen climate resilience and mobilise political will for an ambitious legally-binding agreement in 2015. we truly need a meaningful global agreement in 2015, and we must make progress in lima.
we need to raise the ambition level before 2020, and – at the same time – we have to create a credible pathway towards a low-carbon planet.
we, who are economically stronger, must help those who are most vulnerable to climate change.
heads of state will meet in new york next week to discuss climate change for the first time since the copenhagen climate summit in 2009. the gathering of 125 presidents and prime ministers is a key moment to demonstrate the international community's commitment to preventing human-induced climate change at the 2015 paris climate talks.
the aim is both to accelerate progress in difficult international negotiations and to encourage participants to hold discussions in their home countries about what their country can do to achieve climate change.
if we are to halt the devastating effects of uncontrolled climate change, next year's climate agreement must be both ambitious in its objectives and internationally acceptable.
the european union's role in this process remains important, even though our share of the world's carbon dioxide is declining.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
we need to develop better measurement tools to see how we are using our economic and human resources and our ecological resources.
in addition to the financial costs, one seat would also reduce the carbon footprint of the eu parliament, as it could be decided to travel for thousands of officials, representatives and the press on a monthly basis.
agricultural support must respect sustainable principles - the aim being to guarantee a functioning internal market for agricultural products, to reduce harmful and market-distorting support and to guarantee sufficient income for producers and clean food for consumers.
the aid policy must also be ethically sustainable.
i would also like to say, as mr šoltes has done, that it would be wrong not to raise the question of energy security at this time.
i would urge the people's party to vote in favour of the paragraph which says that moldova should strive to improve its energy efficiency and move towards renewable energy sources.
because if there is something that unites us in europe, in the eastern partnership countries, but also in the european union, it is precisely this energy security, and why should we not now emphasize this in our report.
on behalf of my group, i proposed that the new sdgs be clustered around five main development policy objectives: eradicating poverty and combating inequality; economic sustainability; environmental sustainability; social sustainability; and global partnership.
the committee on the environment has not delivered its opinion, and the weight of environmental issues is too low.
in the current difficult economic climate, keeping all regions alive can be challenging, but in the longer term, it is of paramount importance.
europe must be brought into the path of sustainable growth and cohesion policy must be harnessed to make its own important contribution to this.
the vote will be held on wednesday 26 november 2014. written declarations (rule 162)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, whenever we talk about climate negotiations, the mood is one of hope and despair.
the global climate crisis should be our priority here in parliament, but clearly we are afraid.
and i'm not the only one who's started to think that the climate crisis is not about carbon or carbon dioxide at all, but pure market capitalism.
to combat climate change, we need to break out of the race of the market economy towards destruction.
it is not enough to send 'signals' from the lima meeting, we need a real mega-politics of ambition and a sincere commitment to our environment.
i really hope that the commission and the whole eu delegation will be as constructive and forward-looking as possible in lima, because a binding global climate agreement in paris next year is a necessity for the whole world.
as transport coordinator, i call on all my colleagues in transport to work together to build an ambitious eu action plan that also makes the european transport system truly more energy efficient and sustainable.
sustainable growth, sound policies, will help us to protect the environment and create the new jobs we need throughout europe.
harmful emissions to the atmosphere are increasing cumulatively.
to keep global warming below two degrees during the next century, urgent action is needed to reduce greenhouse gases.
the longer we delay the decision to reduce emissions significantly, the more expensive it will be to keep below 2 degrees.
the parliament's approach to the international climate negotiations is good and ambitious.
this week's policy statement calls for internationally binding emissions targets to achieve net-zero global carbon dioxide emissions and fossil fuel use by 2050. the nations of the world will next be at the negotiating table in december in lima and next year in paris.
the european union has committed to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030. climate change also requires the biggest polluters china and the united states produce 45% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
the promise of a successful outcome to next year's negotiations is that these countries have committed themselves to reducing their own emissions.
politically, these commitments are significant but insufficient to mitigate climate change.
digital technology also enables us to take the environment into account.
the greens have therefore tabled an amendment which stresses the importance of an agro-ecological approach.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
madam president, if the commission work programme is identical to the leaked paper we have already seen, then the headline of the third point includes a promise of – and i quote – ‘a forward-looking climate change policy’.
almost eight years ago the eu decided, as a step towards the then upcoming copenhagen conference, on the climate and energy package.
considering the fact that 2020 is already almost round the corner and that we are approaching the paris conference next year, europe needs a swift and strong implementation of this directive in order to be able to move forward towards the leading low-carbon society it intends to be.
proper accounting for life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions is therefore crucial to achieving this.
developing policies and markets for highly greenhouse-gas-intensive fuels will not be the solution for europe’s need.
the eu fuel quality directive is currently the most important eu tool to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
transport emissions depend on the raw materials from which the fuel is made.
in order to switch to lower carbon intensity oil forms in fuel production, the reporting shall be based on the intensity value of each raw material form used.
in order to reduce transport emissions in the eu, all means must be used to increase incentives for the production of cleaner and lower carbon fuels.
safety and environmental regulation already has a long tradition and i hope that this tradition can be extended to social issues in working life and transport.
this requires a sound business environment and the completion of the internal market, in particular the digital and services internal market.
- mr president, the juncker commission is now focusing strongly in its work programme on stable regulation and a predictable operating environment for businesses.
the fuel quality directive aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 6% by 2020. this is a good goal and a strong signal to biofuel companies: your investment has paid off and together we can make a contribution to climate protection.
companies producing biofuels for transport need to be assured of their operating and investment environment.