but i would also say that those of us who want ambitious climate policies have to ask ourselves whether we can really afford to kill off potentially interesting technologies in their infancy.
then, of course, we need to recognise that it is only one element in a range of technologies and a range of things on our to-do list when it comes to reducing the carbon footprint.
it threatens the survival of some emblematic species, damages biodiversity and undermines the development and stability of many countries.
this needs to go far beyond environmental circles: foreign ministers, organised-crime and development experts, police and customs, the judiciary, ngos and the private sector all have an important role to play.
tiger teeth, bear bile, rhino horns, bird feathers, shark fins, coral and turtle shells - no species is truly spared from the world's biodiversity pirates.
today, the consequences of poaching and illegal wildlife trade go beyond the conservation of biodiversity.
this is a trade that has already reportedly caused over 1,000 deaths among the environmental guards charged with protecting wildlife with repercussions for local populations and entire regions.
interpol and other international bodies are calling on police forces worldwide to tackle environmental damage, and on all states to strengthen their laws and enforcement of sanctions against these criminal networks.
if environmental damage and biodiversity loss have not been enough to move citizens and the international community, things can and must change as we begin 2014. as the european territory is the main transit and destination area for this traffic, the european parliament has taken stock of the challenge and its responsibility.
with the exponential and spectacular growth of online commerce, with consumers saturated with information, with increasing complexity in decision-making, we wanted, in this context, to highlight the development of reliable online comparison sites for consumers, taking into account not only prices but also the quality of goods and services, because this is essential to be part of the ecological evolution and the rejection of waste, which is indispensable.
and all of you here, my dear colleagues, will also be responsible for defending the interests of consumers when it comes to transport policy, energy policy, health policy.
it encourages the regions to develop their strengths in certain areas while including civil society as much as possible and asking them to keep in mind the need to address societal challenges such as the fight against unemployment and poverty, the energy transition or reindustrialisation.
in practice, it is not just a question of betting on innovation at any cost, but of organising it around other priorities, such as the fight against unemployment, poverty or the security of energy supplies.
as transport is one of the largest emitters of greenhouse gases, the european union and car manufacturers have undertaken to reduce these emissions gradually.
the compromise is good for both the climate and the car manufacturers, so i voted in favour of the text.
i voted for the krahmer report on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles because it will improve the performance of our vehicles while reducing the impact of these vehicles on the environment.
this text sets out the modalities needed to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
it is time to take a more serious approach to reducing co2 emissions from the road transport sector, the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
i voted in favour of this report on the reduction of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
the latter need certainty about the technology and vehicles needed to meet environmental objectives.
this text meets the expectations of the various actors while preserving the environment, and i welcome this compromise.
i voted in favour of this agreement, which will encourage the reduction of co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles while preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry.
new tests will also be introduced to measure co2 emissions and fuel consumption more effectively.
this objective represents an average of the emissions permitted for each manufacturer, which can offset the emissions of their most polluting models with their own models.
beyond the environmental objective, this decision is an opportunity to unleash creative energies and to encourage the automotive industry to develop new models with advanced technology to make it a competitive and innovative industry.
the rapporteurs could have made the effort to lower the level of emissions for 2020 and not for 2025 and taken the text out of its free-trade box, to actually change the terms.
however, it is very clear that the rapporteurs have shed light on some issues, in particular the false underestimation of co2 emissions from commercial vehicles or the real flaws in the current calculation methods: the answer is clear, the administration will have to rely on a more realistic calculation method, in particular from the international methods seems more reliable.
this report concerns carbon dioxide emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
while denouncing the fact that manufacturers underestimate the co2 emissions of their vehicles - which is a good thing - it proposes to confirm the target of 147g co2/km by 2020 and to raise it to between 105 and 120g co2/km by 2025. the report justifies these long delays in particular by the current economic situation which does not allow car manufacturers to make the necessary investments and smes to pay more for these vehicles (these standards resulting in a surcharge of up to 10%).
the difficult economic situation behind this report is only the consequence of austerity policies that curb investment, which has a direct impact on our health and our environment.
preserving our natural environment is rightly one of the european union's top priorities.
while protecting the environment is imperative, we must bear in mind that, as in the automobile sector, commercial vehicle manufacturers need safety, especially in this time of crisis.
as part of the strategy to reduce co2 emissions from light vehicles in 2011, the eu adopted a regulation that targets co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles sold on the european market.
the new regulation limits co2 emissions to an average of 175 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2017 and aims to limit it to 147 g/km by 2020.
i welcome the fact that it was adopted by a large majority, because we must bear in mind that this directive also makes it possible, in the second place, through the necessary investments, to reduce fuel consumption, to maintain a first-rate european production, to promote technological innovation while benefiting the environment.
this is largely achievable for european manufacturers, who have significantly improved their energy performance year after year, thanks to their r&d efforts and the stimulating legislative framework put in place by parliament.
it is therefore in the interests of manufacturers, consumers and citizens that the council should follow the reasonable position of our assembly, in line with our ambitious objectives of combating pollution.
supporting transparency, providing guarantees on these names and ensuring consumer protection and information seem to me to be clearly sustainable objectives.
carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a promising technology that could reduce co2 emissions in the atmosphere in the future.
this own-initiative report supports innovation and the fight against climate change.
carbon capture and storage technology is by no means a panacea.
however, there is still a long way to go in the fight against climate change.
i voted for the report on carbon capture and storage.
by voting for this text, meps wanted to encourage the development of technologies for carbon capture and storage.
this technology would enable us to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions and bring us closer to our environmental objectives.
therefore, it is particularly relevant to look more seriously at how to attract investment to enable the deployment of carbon capture and storage.
under its horizon 2020 strategy, the eu has set itself the ambition of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% by 2020. to achieve this, lifestyles will have to change.
innovative technologies will also be needed to combine, where possible, the optimal use of energy with respect for our environmental commitments.
in close cooperation with industry and member states, the eu supports demonstration projects and the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs).
we must not lose sight of this objective, which, in addition to reducing greenhouse gases, will be a source of growth and employment for europe.
i voted in favour of this report to put forward carbon capture and storage technologies.
this proposal guarantees the application of technology which has a vital role to play in combating the threat of global warming and at a time when environmental issues remain a concern for many citizens, i welcome the adoption of such measures.
i voted in favour of this text, which aims to support the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies in europe and their role in the fight against climate change.
for example, carbon dioxide emitted by highly emitting facilities, such as fossil fuel power stations, would be captured and stored underground.
all solutions to mitigate the effects of climate change are worth trying.
as such, they need to be mentioned in the 2030 climate and energy package.
i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the glaring lack of public and private investment in carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies.
despite all the efforts, carbon capture and storage technologies have still not taken off in europe.
the ccs is an essential tool for achieving a competitive low-carbon economy at low cost.
ccs technologies are not 'competing' with renewable energy, but are an alternative technology, indispensable in certain industrial sectors that emit high levels of co2.
it is clear that since its adoption in 2009, the carbon capture and storage (ccs) directive has not had the desired effect: to date, no pilot plants have yet been set up.
'effective' because it is important that europe can have low carbon electricity as ccs could be the only way to achieve european targets for reducing greenhouse gases from industrial sources.
'encadrated' as it is equally important to clarify that ccs should not be considered as an alternative to renewable energy; if the csc technology is to benefit from the financial resources necessary for its use, it must not become a blank check for polluters.
this text is an example of the ecological inconsistency of european technocracy.
he contradicts himself when he says that support for carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies must be based on carbon market mechanisms after pointing out its inefficiency.
the increase will again be high for households with modest energy and transportation expenditure constraints.
this is without questioning the eu's real need for renewable energy, whereas funding renewable energy is more environmentally and socially efficient.
this own-initiative report supports the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies in the european union.
unfortunately, the development of these technologies implies that this will probably come at the expense of low greenhouse gas emitting technologies, such as renewable energy, and will mainly benefit large industrial groups.
the development of the csc therefore offers no real answers to the climate and energy problems, and implicitly supports the ultra-productivist methods of the most emitting industrialists.
the european parliament and the council adopted the carbon capture and storage directive in 2009, which provides a framework for the eu.
however, the issue of global warming has become a matter of life and death and this possibility of capture must be studied in order to limit it.
in his draft the rapporteur focused on possible ways to advance the development of carbon capture and storage in the eu, in particular through financial and regulatory measures.
he also stressed the role of the member states in this area in relation to transport, storage and responsibility for co2 emissions.
renewable energy, energy efficiency and their financing should remain the main focus of eu climate legislation.
carbon capture and storage should be considered as a transitional solution to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources.
i welcome the fact that the european framework for the development of carbon capture and storage technologies is bearing fruit.
it is both a niche for innovation, r&d and employment, and an effective means of achieving our emissions reduction targets.
it is clear that there are sources of carbon emissions that cannot be eliminated, in industry or transport.
nevertheless, the regulations in place for carbon capture and storage are indispensable and complement the efforts for the development of alternative energies and fuels.
the main challenge for the future is now to accelerate research to improve the transport and geological storage of carbon that is captured at source and in the atmosphere.
the measures in this text are part of the desire to increase the sustainability and efficiency of health systems while encouraging cross-border healthcare.
finally, i believe that our approach is inseparable from the strengthening of efforts to combat food waste, which is an equally unacceptable scandal.
i voted against the report on financial participation by employees in company results because, in my view, it is not, as the report says, a good way to participate in so-called smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
i supported the report by my colleague vilija blinkevičiūtė because i believe that all european workers, including the self-employed, should have access to social protection and that it should be sound, sustainable and adequate for all.
the own-initiative report, entitled social protection for all, focuses on important issues such as reaffirming the right to sustainable and adequate social protection for all, based on the principles of universal and non-discriminatory access, the importance of social investment and ensuring a decent income for everyone.
with its future-oriented funding, cohesion policy plays a key role in the sustainable and supportive development of the european union's territories.
in this period of economic and financial crisis, the eu's cohesion policy is fundamental to job creation, sustainable growth and maintaining the competitiveness of the member states and the european union.
this own-initiative report is a statement by the european parliament following the publication by the european commission of its green paper on plastic waste.
for me, it is of course essential to combat plastic waste in the environment because its life span is often extremely long and its harmful impact on fauna and flora.
this is particularly the case at sea with the development of waste continents (vortex).
for example, a single piece of plastic waste can cause fish or birds to die by ingestion.
in a context of resource scarcity, when we need to strengthen our objectives in the fight against climate change but also ensure economically and socially sustainable growth, creating jobs, moving towards a circular economy is not an option, it is a necessity.
today we have taken advantage of an own-initiative report on the european strategy on plastic waste to support the circular economy model which decouples growth from resource depletion and requires a complete change in our product design.
in terms of cost, environmental impact, waste management and local services, there are advantages to reusing, repairing, recycling and reusing products.
i voted in favour of the report on a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment.
we have therefore called for specific legislation on plastics to recycle them as much as possible, to combat plastic waste on land and at sea and to reduce the consumption of plastic bags.
this text rightly advocates the reduction of plastic waste and its impact on the environment.
the increase in plastic waste is having a significant impact on the environment and human health.
i voted in favour of this text which aims to reduce the impact of plastic waste on the environment.
if properly designed, some plastic recycling measures are part of a sustainable development logic and can also improve competitiveness and create new economic activities and jobs.
at a time when environmental issues are the main concern of our citizens, i welcome such a text.
i voted in favour of this text as a continuation of my environmental concerns in the field of recycling, pollution control and environmental education.
the report aims to reduce the impact of plastic waste on the environment and contributes to the eu's goals for a resource-efficient europe.
the european parliament has thus sent a strong message by providing concrete and constructive responses to the challenges posed by plastic waste.
this text proposes to create european legislation to combat the proliferation of plastic waste in the environment.
the first area of improvement is packaging, which accounts for 40% of plastic waste.
the method proposed for waste treatment, namely prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery, seems to me to be important and a step towards a circular economy.
plastic waste is causing irreversible damage to our environment.
firstly, it shows that the european union is doing everything in its power to improve environmental conditions by setting achievable targets.
secondly, the report mentions the concepts of circular economy and sustainable economy.
we must guarantee our citizens a cleaner environment while promoting a more efficient and competitive industry.
however, this industry generates a significant amount of waste that is not always sustainably reprocessed, and is sometimes diverted illegally.
it is in this sense that i have supported this report, with the aim of european legislation to allow a substantial reduction in plastic waste and to ensure that it is recycled in a special way according to the type of material or product.
recycling will allow the reuse of plastic waste for the creation of new products and is a real long-term sustainable solution, both economically and environmentally.
i voted in favour of the report on a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment.
noting that plastic waste accumulates in large quantities and persists in the environment for hundreds of years, killing marine life, causing toxic reactions and releasing endocrine disruptors and carcinogens, and that its known environmental impacts are still underestimated, it is important to mobilise to control this waste stream.
i can only support this initiative and encourage the phasing out of the use of plastic products or at least support the development of more sustainable plastics.
it is to be hoped that this report will find real application, because we know that the european union's policy on the environment is often more ambitious in words than in deeds.
but this text only talks about the "quality" of the labelled products without ever detailing the social and ecological conditions that should be supported.
i have made it my own objective to move towards ecological agriculture, creating jobs and living countryside, and thus ensuring food sovereignty and fighting hunger throughout the world.
this is particularly true when environmental or social considerations are taken into account.
public procurement, by virtue of its importance in the economy, is essential to fostering quality employment and environmental responsibility while providing quality services and products to citizens.
these texts meet this challenge, in particular because we have finally abandoned the simplistic logic of the least-good, leaving the public authorities the possibility of choosing the best economic offer on the basis of qualitative, social and environmental criteria and taking into account the constraints faced by smes in accessing public contracts.
is it done on social and environmental grounds?
it is the reign of unfair competition based on social and environmental dumping that makes the union the shame of the developed world.
these efforts, together with the support, balance and solidarity shown at the level of the family and the family environment, are also examples of the difficult times we have experienced in greece.
we must not waste time and set up the banking union, but we must have a good agreement.
we want concrete results on this issue and on the energy transition, which has a major impact on the cost of energy, competitiveness and purchasing power.
several clarifications were made, particularly for the committee on the environment, which is more clearly in charge of climate change.
it's a lot of work to create a work environment.
for example, it helped develop the copernicus programme, studying the impact of human activities on the planet, and developed research activities on non-nuclear energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
maintaining good relations and strengthening our cooperation with this regional organisation helps to develop an environment conducive to trade between europe and south-east asia.
the amendments to the directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos and to the risk of asbestos-related products, which are not covered by the directive, are designed to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised.
the aim is to simplify and relax the existing rules, to improve the consideration of societal objectives (energy efficiency, social inclusion) and to reduce the structural disadvantages faced by smes in accessing public procurement.
this allows them to base their choice on social and environmental criteria.
this will make it possible to take greater account of social and environmental aspects in tendering procedures, as well as international agreements and collective agreements.
for example, abnormally low tenders - because they are linked to breaches of social or environmental legislation - will be automatically excluded.
the directive proposes the creation of a european economic market which respects the social rights of citizens and is concerned about their environmental welfare.
public procurement represents 18% of european gdp and is an important lever for achieving objectives such as sustainable development, inclusive growth, innovation and the development of smes.
in the current economic climate, it is essential to allocate public money in the best possible way.
this will allow public authorities to place greater emphasis on quality, environmental and social aspects, while taking into account price and life cycle costs of supply.
they will also make it possible to add ecological and social criteria so that the lowest cost candidate is no longer the only one to be favoured, and will promote access to public contracts for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the report gives public authorities more leeway in public procurement by reinforcing the obligation to respect social standards in procurement procedures: award criteria will no longer be based solely on the lowest cost but may take account of social and environmental objectives.
in addition, any company that has breached its obligations under social, environmental or labour law can now be automatically excluded and the possibility of promoting a principle of responsibility in the subcontracting chain has been introduced to ensure that all economic actors respect the rights of workers.
the difference is fundamental: social and environmental criteria will therefore be taken into account, as will sustainability.
as for local authorities, their autonomy of choice is reinforced by legal clarification between public procurement and concessions, and by the exclusion of 'public-public' cooperation and certain sectors for concessions, such as water, transport, energy, civil protection, or emergency services.
the proposal for a directive aims to update the 2004 directive on the award of public contracts in certain specific sectors (water, energy, transport and postal services).
as with the revision of the public procurement directive, the aim is to simplify and relax the existing rules, to improve the consideration of societal objectives (energy efficiency, social inclusion) and to reduce the structural disadvantages faced by smes in accessing public procurement.
i support modernising the rules on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
this will make it possible to take greater account of social and environmental aspects in tendering procedures, as well as international agreements and collective agreements.
for example, abnormally low tenders - because they are linked to breaches of social or environmental legislation - will be automatically excluded.
i supported this report on the award of public contracts in the so-called special sectors (water, energy, transport, postal services), which is the result of an agreement reached in the trilogue last july between the three institutions (european parliament, european commission, council) as part of a comprehensive package on public procurement and concession contracts.
this directive lays down the rules governing the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
i voted in favour of this report on public procurement in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
in addition, social and environmental objectives will be part of the award criteria, not just the lowest cost.
on another report, however, i opposed the planting of the genetically modified maize pioneer tc 1507, given the lack of scientific evaluation of the possible environmental risks of this gmo which persist.
this type of traffic is a danger to the environment and local communities.
europe is an important market for poachers who take advantage of the non-harmonisation of european regulations on the protection of biodiversity to bring goods into the eu.
these practices often lead to the extinction of species, damage biodiversity and cause serious damage to ecosystems.
as vice-president of the animal welfare intergroup in the european parliament, i am very much involved in issues of respect for biodiversity.
- madam president, the question of environmental damage, which is of a very different nature from the whole subject we have just discussed, is becoming increasingly important.
environmental liability directive 2004/35 recognises environmental damage but excludes a number of categories, including environmental damage resulting from disasters related to oil spills at sea.
the creation of a complementary fund in 2003, which is in addition to the fipol, has resulted in the abandonment of a project to integrate ecological damage into the categories of damage compensated by this fund.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
yet in the united states, environmental damage is recognized by case law, see the exxon valdez judgment.
the european court of human rights recognises a right to a healthy and protected environment, see tătar v. romania.
finally, in this last case in which i had the honour of defending the french communes, the french court of cassation has recognised the existence of pure ecological damage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment.
the environmental damage caused by the sinking of the erika was estimated at 360 million euros, and the overall damage of the prestige exceeded 4 billion.
these ecological and economic disasters, which have been a real trauma for our coastlines, have infiltrated every aspect of life on our coasts: 300,000 birds died from the oil spill on the erika.
other consequences will never be recorded, such as the impact on biodiversity.
in france, however, the court of cassation made two significant advances in the fight against pollution in the erika case.
secondly, the judges established an ecological damage and quantified it, thus allowing compensation to be paid to the victims.
while europe rightly boasts of an integrated maritime policy and the ambition of protecting the marine environment, we cannot allow the pollution of europe's coasts to go unpunished.
marine pollution by oil is one of the scourges that presents enormous difficulties in prevention and remediation.
in france, the erika legal proceedings established the existence of pure ecological damage, which complements the economic, material or moral damage.
at european and international level, the existing provisions are not sufficient to recognize purely ecological damage caused by natural disasters.
the convention on civil liability must also recognize that environmental damage is liable to compensation.
in addition, the international compensation fund for oil pollution damage, fipol, established in 2003, should facilitate compensation for all types of damage.
at european level, the scope of the environmental liability directive needs to be extended to take account of ecological damage to european marine waters.
finally, i think it is essential to set up a fund to supplement the fipol fund, which would be designed to repair the environmental damage.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today too often those who pollute and are responsible for ecological disasters are not the ones who pay.
how can we compensate and make amends when we cannot prevent these natural disasters and the resulting ecological damage?
but we must and can go further to force environmental offenders to face up to their responsibilities and make amends.
at european level, the deadlock in the council over the directive on access to justice in environmental matters must now end and we must embark on a review of european regulation to make it more stringent and harmonised.
in france, the erika case has set in motion the development of the law on the concept of pure ecological damage, but it is at european level that we can exert our full weight and ensure common and effective mechanisms, and that we must go further so that everyone assumes his criminal and civil responsibilities and so that cases such as the erika or the prestige really belong to the past.
the aim is to generate growth, jobs and to foster the transition to a low-carbon economy.
from telecommunications to the automobile and renewable energy, the situation calls for a move to the offensive.
i supported this text to reindustrialise europe to promote the competitiveness and sustainability of our market.
business investment in research, innovation and sustainable technologies should be encouraged.
with industrial production in the euro area up by 1.8% in november, member states should take advantage of this favourable climate to consolidate europe's industrial policy, which is continuing to fall behind the united states, china and the emerging powers.
this policy, which translates into the reconquest of territories, will only be effective and sustainable if it offers a collective vision and avoids uncooperative behaviour and unfair competition strategies within the euro area.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague reinhard bütikofer calling for reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability.
this report supports the design of an industrial policy that encourages investment in r & d, while promoting energy price developments and access to finance.
it is therefore important to enable companies to develop in an international environment conducive to innovation.
i regret, however, that the report does not go further to protect our companies, which are already subject to heavy environmental regulations, in particular by introducing a carbon tax at europe's borders for companies from third countries to combat unfair competition.
and as a result, they face competition from neighbouring countries, which export similar goods but whose production standards are less stringent than the social and environmental standards imposed on european producers.
genetic engineering offers hope in many areas, including the development of vaccines, more resistant and richer food production and new ways of combating pollution.
on the one hand, there is a clear lack of certainty about the possible environmental risks of this gmo.
our ecosystem is already in danger, especially with the bees, and we should not allow products whose effects are not guaranteed.
on another report, however, i opposed the planting of the genetically modified maize pioneer tc 1507, given the lack of scientific evaluation of the possible environmental risks of this gmo which persist.
a large majority of the european parliament has therefore opposed this cultivation of gmos, in particular because the commission's proposal exceeds its implementing powers in the legislation concerned and because it is necessary to improve the procedures for evaluating authorization and renewal as some member states do and as environmental ngos have been asking for many years.
it is crucial that the european union develops a strategy to reintegrate the homeless in a sustainable way and to break the cycle of isolation.
with the growing awareness of the importance of sustainable development, greenwashing is in vogue.
false environmental claims are on the rise.
consumers may choose one product over another because they think they are making a better choice for the environment, or because they are willing to pay more for it, when in reality they are being duped.
in the face of the crisis, which had seriously jeopardized the financial sustainability of the eurozone countries, it was necessary to define and make binding a budgetary discipline which had been seriously lacking since the introduction of the single currency.
this requires beyond reference to rigidly defined parameters greater attention to the actual conditions of debt sustainability in each country and, in this connection, sufficient openness on the ways and timing of further financial rebalancing.
a new era of economic growth, sustainable in all respects, is essential to rebuild confidence, but it is not enough to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of the integration process if it is not accompanied by new institutional and political developments in the life of the union.
however, it ignores greenland's sensitive ecosystem and encourages extractivism.
furthermore, the draconian measures on the export of rough diamonds from greenland or on their import from third countries are part of a climate of surveillance which makes it possible to combat all kinds of illegal trafficking, which i welcome.
however, the report is particularly aimed at 'potential investors' - while it is up to greenland, which has limited resources and for which this new resource represents a development opportunity, to decide on ways to develop its diamond industry, so that it does not become a new resource to be plundered without ecological or social considerations.
the development of safety at work, the extension of social rights and the protection of the environment are one and the same.
it is also an opportunity to recall the need to promote and, above all, maintain a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers when dangerous chemicals are present in their working environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the european union is gradually developing a european energy policy and a single market in this sector, in particular to bring down energy prices and to combat energy dependence on certain neighbours.
to achieve these objectives, the european union must develop a cross-border energy network.
i voted in favour of this regulation which establishes a common framework for the communication to the commission (every two years) of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas and electricity sectors, as well as on investment projects concerning the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide produced by these sectors.
the commission will aim to carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the energy system in order to correct imbalances.
this text establishes a harmonised framework for the communication to the european commission of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure.
the communication of information on investment projects in energy infrastructure is essential for the commission to establish an effective strategy in this field.
i welcome this further evidence of energy transparency.
i welcome the adoption of this regulation which establishes a common framework for the communication to the commission, every two years, of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in all sectors (oil, natural gas, electricity) and on investment projects concerning the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide produced by these sectors.
the transmission of these data will enable the commission to carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the european energy system in order to correct any imbalances.
i supported the report by my colleague adina-ioana valean, which establishes a common framework for the communication to the european commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, gas and electricity sectors, as well as on investment projects in the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of co2 produced by these sectors.
on the basis of this data, the commission will carry out a regular analysis of the evolution of the energy system with a view to correcting imbalances in it.
i voted in favour of the report on investment projects in energy infrastructure, which provides for member states to inform the european commission every two years of their investment projects in energy infrastructure such as oil, gas, electricity and biofuels.
this information is essential for the development of eu energy policy.
the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to replace another euratom regulation (no 617/2010), the practical purpose of which is to oblige companies and energy sector players to provide the commission services in brussels with information on their energy investment projects.
in terms of energy policy, it is leading europe into its own delusions.
it is important that parliament and the council establish a common framework for communicating to the commission information on investment projects in certain energy infrastructure in the union, such as in the oil, gas or electricity sectors.
information and consultation of workers, as well as consumer rights and environmental concerns, should not suffer from this type of reform.
this report calls for a renegotiation of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to take account of the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty, to build on existing good practice and to update the agreement in line with the better regulation agenda.
they refer to the new legislative environment created by the treaty of lisbon , ratified against the negative votes of the french, dutch and irish peoples.
in this context, it is important to ensure that the institutions' behaviour is as consistent as possible in order to adapt them to this new legislative environment.
ulrike lunacek, the austrian environmental rapporteur for the text, worked closely with the other political groups and put forward a text with a broad consensus for the vote.
given the reactionary climate, this text is welcome.
what message are we sending when we spend hours debating a hypothetical roadmap, while europeans expect us to provide solutions to the consequences of the crisis, to increasingly porous borders and to an environment threatened by climate change?
parliament stressed in particular the new fraudulent practices on the internet, but also the issues related to false declarations about the environmental quality of products.
it therefore pays no attention to relocating production and encouraging short supply chains, which are fundamental levers for integrating the ecological imperative into trade that today has no boundaries.
i voted in favour of this text, which takes stock of the european judicial systems for the year 2013. on the basis of these conclusions, several options are preferred for the coming year, starting with reducing the length of procedures, in order to improve the operating environment for companies and thus make it more attractive to investors.
this tool is important for enhancing the quality of national justice systems and contributing to improving the business and investment climate within the eu.
i voted in favour of this text which welcomes the paradigm shift in the way regions produce and consume energy.
it also highlights the opportunities that geographical (or territorial) changes bring to the energy network of disadvantaged regions and invites member states and regions to invest in local smart grids through the european structural and investment funds.
by inviting member states and local and regional authorities to invest in smart grids, the text aims to move towards greater flexibility in energy consumption.
by voting for this text, we wanted to help avoid approximation of charges by optimising energy consumption by responding in a targeted way to the energy demand of european consumers.
finally, this text will not only make it possible to favour more sustainable consumption but also to opt for decentralised local production.
these networks are tools that ensure better coordination between energy production and consumption systems in order to optimise costs.
the modernisation of the electricity grid has become essential for the distribution of energy from renewable sources.
these technologies are therefore a major asset in meeting today's energy challenges.
the report welcomes the change in energy production and consumption patterns in the regions and calls on member states to invest in local smart grids to meet future energy needs.
smart grids are based on decentralised energy production and consumption models and enable a stable and secure energy supply.
it is regrettable that these good intentions are reflected in an increased use of individual consumer responsibility, whereas the objectives pursued (reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, stable supply, etc.)
the naivete of green capitalists is affecting ecological progress.
the european economy needs local and regional energy initiatives to become increasingly self-sufficient in this area.
for some time now, we have seen the creation of smart grids for renewable energy, which have the potential to create sustainable development and jobs.
although environmental protection is very important, we should not be deceived into setting binding environmental standards that are not achievable for most member states.
it is true that such developments as smart grids must be supported, but it must be borne in mind that the european energy sectors must move closer to these objectives without losing their competitiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
- the eu member states have few energy reserves of their own and therefore import more than half of their energy consumption (54.1% in 2010).
so the price of energy that we pay every day depends on the situation in the world market or on the demand of the exporting country, and we have no other way to pay it.
the only way to reduce costs at present is to reduce consumption and increase energy production within the eu.
this means that they produce energy for their own use by selling part of it to the grid or by receiving a discount for the additional electricity consumed using net accounting.
the development of smart grids and virtual power stations, which provide for flexible supply and could store small amounts of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, is necessary to establish such a two-way system.
the network would help consumers to adapt their consumption to their needs, saving energy, improving energy efficiency, reducing peak hours, etc.
this would reduce energy costs for businesses and increase consumer purchasing power.
while i can only support a more sustainable approach to electricity consumption, this report has not gone in the right direction.
i fully agree with the statement in this resolution that calls on 'the member states and the commission to take appropriate measures in the framework of the new common agricultural policy and to prepare guidelines for the period after 2020, taking better account of the specific needs of small family farms, which are an important part of the european agricultural model and the core of the multifunctional development of rural areas, as well as the sustainable development of regions in general'.
the creation of such a market requires transport over long distances at lower cost, which is not compatible with satisfactory social and environmental standards.
it is structured around the following main axes: ensuring an appropriate regulatory framework; facilitating restructuring and meeting skills needs; boosting demand for steel; supporting demand by improving access to foreign markets and ensuring fair conditions of competition at international level; and boosting competitiveness through appropriate energy, climate, resource and energy efficiency policies.
i voted for the gyürk report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe.
i welcome the vote on this text, which gives europe access to foreign markets while guaranteeing energy at affordable prices.
finally, the desire to stimulate innovation by developing new, cleaner technologies is part of an environmental logic that i share.
asymmetric trade agreements allow third countries that practice social, economic and environmental dumping to have unhindered access to the markets of the eu member states.
another factor is the rise in energy prices in europe, mainly due to massive investments in renewable energy, and wind in particular.
the report adopted today calls in particular for control of energy and regulatory costs, which are a heavy burden on the steel sector.
the union must have a climate, energy and environmental policy that preserves the competitiveness of our industry and makes it possible to avoid further relocations.
tackling high energy costs, better protecting our market against aggressive and unfair practices from third countries, training qualified personnel, research, development and innovation are the major tasks on which the european union must concentrate its efforts.
the final report encourages restructuring, asks the commission to continue and deepen its competition policy, brings the wolf into the fold by welcoming the transatlantic market agreement and, without the slightest bit of imagination, puts the problems of the sector on the thin shoulders of environmental legislation.
i supported the report by my colleague andras gyürk on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe to help the sector meet the challenges of today.
i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe.
the commission has committed itself to an action plan across several axes: improving investment conditions, improving access for european producers to third country markets and combating unfair practices, addressing the risk of relocation of a carbon dioxide emitting industry in connection with european energy and climate policy, and fostering innovation.
we will do the same with the establishment of social and ecological barriers.
the report highlights three basic ideas: lowering energy prices so that they are more affordable for european producers, curbing environmental standards which are driving many companies to leave europe and imposing the principle of reciprocity in trade relations.
europe has undeniable assets: it remains the world's second largest producer, and we need to involve the 350 000 workers in the sector in thinking about our priorities: reducing co2 emissions, fair trade in international trade, innovation, research... the european parliament's proposals, for which i voted today, are ambitious and must now be taken up by the european commission and the member states.
in this review, the compromises achieved by the european parliament so far are important for the access of small and mediumsized enterprises to the mechanisms and for ensuring that social and environmental issues are finally integrated into our trade defence instruments.
the idea of taking international standards, whether social or environmental, into account in the sanctions that could be applied in the event of dumping is an essential element of the evolution of our trade defence framework.
how can we combat the increasingly aggressive social and environmental dumping which we have always denounced?
the commission's initial proposal is a step forward and would allow €36 billion to be recovered for job protection, the development of public services for the common good, the fight against poverty or climate change.
however, we have a significant lever to mobilize resources, in the order of 30 to 35 billion euros, namely the financial transaction tax, in order to meet our needs, to fight poverty, to ensure the energy transition, to carry out cultural projects, etc.
mr president, madam commissioner, commissioner, in 2008 europe decided to take the lead in the world in climate, energy transition and industry.
we have seen today that ambition for climate and that ambition for energy transition clearly dilute.
the european parliament strongly advocates a 'package' which combines binding targets on climate, renewable energy and energy efficiency and unfortunately we see the commission pushing back the issue of binding targets, whether on renewable energy or on energy efficiency.
the idea of a single european renewable energy target which is not declined at national level is not just a regression in terms of climate targets, in terms of energy transition, it is also a regression in terms of european integration, a regression in the will to carry a european project.
environmentalists argue that 40% of the cost is to be met by energy efficiency, 45% by renewable energy and almost 60% by greenhouse gas emissions.
it is a climate project, an energy project but also a civilization project for europe.
at a time when the cost of developing subsidized green energy is being denounced everywhere, i am surprised that there is talk of a separate target for renewable energy, which would still weigh on electricity costs.
let us therefore leave the member states the flexibility and freedom to decide on their energy mix.
i will support a single target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. reducing co2 emissions is our priority.
but when the eu is only responsible for 11% of global emissions today, and that percentage could even fall in the coming years, it is an illusion to think that the eu alone can change things.
i think that the three objectives which we want to be binding must first be incentives to chart our own path, that of sustainable and innovative growth which creates jobs.
because we can get households and businesses to save on their energy bills through thermal renovation or other efficiency measures.
because we can also do a lot to rebalance the union's trade balance by substituting, as far as possible, for our fossil fuel imports, indigenous and non-carbon production - i am talking about renewable energy.
in 2008, when the 2020 energy-climate "package" was being negotiated, the pessimists said, "we'll never get there.
today, the european union is on track not only to meet its 2020 targets for reducing greenhouse gases and developing renewable energy, but even better, it should exceed those targets - not to mention job creation.
the challenge is crucial: it is a question of reconciling economic and environmental interests to ensure that our children have a future on this planet and also a job in europe.
firstly, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions must be set at a minimum of 40%.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
despite appearances, this text organises a labour immigration not seasonal but sustainable.
we are making it easier for european citizens to access a rare species, while protecting consumer health and promoting sustainable fisheries.
the text gives parliament's approval to the conclusion of a protocol between the european union and the gabonese republic to increase its fishing opportunities in gabon while respecting the sustainability of this fishery, after more than a year of interruption.
the development of semi-extensive aquaculture, which is reversible and has no significant impact on the environment, is possible.
it will focus in particular on areas such as energy, climate change, environment and natural resources.
i voted for the cortes lastra report in favour of a deep partnership between the european union and greenland on issues of common interest, in particular on the sustainable exploitation and use of natural resources.
greenland is experiencing a major melting of the ice due to global warming.
this climate catastrophe is raising new challenges.
greenland is emerging as a new strategic partner with which it is important to increase relations in sectors such as tourism, energy, environmental protection and maritime transport.
i supported the report by my colleague ricardi cortés lastra which sets out the framework for the future of relations between the european union and greenland, including cooperation and financial support for the period 2014-2020. the report nevertheless stresses that any cooperation with greenland in the exploration and exploitation of local natural resources should be carried out only in accordance with the highest standards of safety and environmental protection.
this new framework will allow for enhanced cooperation between the parties in areas of common interest such as energy, climate and the environment.
this proposal sets out the new framework for cooperation between greenland and the union for the period 2014-2020, in particular in the fields of education and training, natural resources and energy.
the gradual thawing of the ice due to global warming is opening the way for the exploitation of new resources in this area, including gas, oil and mining.
the rapporteur stresses that it is up to greenland, which has limited resources, to decide on the means of exploiting this resource and to define, in compliance with the 'highest social, environmental and safety standards', strict environmental management criteria to ensure the sustainable use of resources and to preserve the precious but fragile ecosystem of the arctic region.
as regards insurance-covered losses, it is also necessary that the concept of ecological damage be recognised in european law and that any damage be compensated.
in order to better protect and arm our businesses in a global environment where economic reality does not allow for virtuous and respectful practices, the european parliament has taken the view that our economic apparatus should be equipped with defence tools against imports which are dumped and subsidised by third countries.
first, we must adapt these instruments, which have been awaiting reform for 15 years, to the new global trade challenges, whether in terms of social, environmental and commercial dumping or counterfeiting.
it was essential for the european union to modernise its trade defence instruments to adapt them to the current global trading environment.
it is not protectionist to want to guarantee that our companies operate in an international environment conducive to fair trade.
i am very pleased to have fought for this report to be adopted in such a way that european companies are assured of operating in the best possible commercial environment.
this reform is simply necessary: nothing has changed since 1995. while our trade defence instruments remain relevant in substance, several recent cases, including that of chinese solar panels, have shown that they are no longer always appropriate to the global trading environment.
the amendments we have adopted today will better equip our companies against all forms of dumping: commercial, social and environmental.
the aim of this revision is also to better equip our companies against all forms of unfair competition: economic, social or environmental.
european production is in competition with producers in third countries whose social and environmental standards are much lower than ours.
this report sets out important steps to enable europe to impose stricter duties on imports that do not meet adequate social and environmental standards.
this is a step forward, but there is still a long way to go to protect our industries, our workers and our environment and to ensure the sustainability of the european model of sustainable development: producing efficiently while respecting people and ecosystems.
the european commission is struggling to respond to the damage caused by social or environmental dumping or illegal subsidies as a result of retaliatory measures by third countries, who are supposed to be our trading partners.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
in view of the urgent priority of restoring a security environment, the eu foreign affairs council has decided to extend the mandate of the eu high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to include the eu high representative for the common foreign and security policy.
while elections are necessary to restore the legitimacy of the authorities and constitutional order, the international response should always go one step further to ensure a sustainable response to the instability that is re-emerging in the car; there's a vicious circle.
we will continue to support the humanitarian, stabilization and political process and to contribute to the creation of the conditions for sustainable development.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the modal part of river transport is not taking off, despite its many advantages: low co2 emissions, high safety levels, modest noise pollution, no congestion.
however, the fact that we do not exploit all this potential and this mode of transport has consequences for the efficiency and sustainability of our transport system.
in this report, the european parliament proposes to extend, improve and strengthen the eu's energy and climate policy by setting three binding targets to be achieved by 2030, namely at least 40% reduction in co2 emissions compared to 1990 levels, 30% energy from renewable sources and 40% energy efficiency.
by reducing co2 emissions, producing more renewable energy and reducing energy waste, the goal is clear: to fight climate change by creating jobs in our regions.
this could create over a million jobs by 2030. convinced of the need to reconcile economy and ecology, i have always advocated an ambitious 2030 energy-climate package and have made a significant contribution to this positive vote, which i welcome.
i did not vote for the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies because the constraints included in this resolution do not seem to me to be compatible with the requirements of competitiveness of european companies, especially in the industrial sector.
the final vote (341 in favour, 263 against) does not convey a strong message and will be of no use to the heads of state or government meeting on 20 and 21 march 2014 on the subject of energy and competitiveness.
this result is due to the extreme positions of parliamentarians who want to set an example in energy and climate matters at all costs without taking into account the industrial sector exposed to co2 leakage.
it is becoming urgent that political parties and citizens debate this issue and give their voice at the european elections in may 2014. this will be the right political and democratic way to prepare a strong message for heads of state or government in the run-up to the 21st conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, scheduled to take place in paris in 2015. until an international agreement is signed, the competitiveness of our industry must not be affected.
i did not support the delvaux-szymanski own-initiative report on climate and energy policies for 2030 at the time of the final vote, as the common line supported by my political group did not find a majority.
i want ambitious commitments on climate and energy by 2030 without penalising the competitiveness of european industry.
the adoption of this report is a victory on the road to a greener europe by 2013. in particular, we have supported ambitious targets for greenhouse gases, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
this text expresses the european parliament's position on the objectives it wishes to set for climate and energy policies by 2030. it seemed to me essential during this vote to give the european union clear objectives, but one which offers a certain legal certainty without hindering competitiveness and employment.
i have supported a binding target of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
this would have been accompanied by a strong commitment to renewable energy and energy efficiency, where member states would have had more room for manoeuvre.
i voted in favour of this text, which gives the european union real ambition in the field of climate and energy.
as member states are very diverse in terms of industrial structure, carbon and energy intensity, it was in everyone's interest to act on this issue.
moreover, one of the fundamental objectives of the union's energy policy is to ensure that the energy system contributes to the competitiveness of the union's economy, which i welcome.
i did not want to support this own-initiative report on climate and energy policies for 2030 at the time of the final vote, as the common line supported by my political group, namely compromise amendment no 6, which proposed a binding co2 emission reduction target and a more political european target combining energy efficiency and renewable energy, failed to win a majority.
with a view to the paris climate conference in 2015, i call on the european union to obtain ambitious commitments from its partners to ensure a balanced, effective and non-competitive international agreement for european industry.
we, the european parliamentarians, have just reiterated our climate and energy ambition by affirming, by 341 votes to 263, a clear position of the european parliament in the debate on the union's climate and energy policy for 2030. the vote comes just weeks after the european commission presented a weak proposal that was unsuited to the climate emergency, and was encouraged by the reluctance of some countries, such as france, to act, even though europe has all the assets to excel in this area.
even if the climate and energy targets adopted by parliament are far from what is necessary and possible in this area, the report adopted by parliament has the merit of calling for binding targets (a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, an increase to 30% of the share of renewable energy and a 40% target for energy efficiency by 2030).
europe must have a climate-energy package with three binding targets, a prerequisite for its success, in particular in view of the international climate conference in paris in 2015.
in writing.
i voted against the own-initiative report on climate change by 2030 because it is not going in the right direction.
no one understands the persistence of the green and left parties in sacrificing any hope of economic recovery to excessive and growth-squeezing environmental policy, when what we really need is a clear and simple strategy to overcome the challenges of this century.
i voted against the report which calls for the implementation of binding climate and energy targets for member states by 2030. in a difficult economic context, marked by rising energy prices and their impact on the competitiveness of european industry, it seems important to me to leave flexibility to member states on their investments in energy efficiency or renewable energy.
unfortunately, the texts on the eu's energy and climate policy follow one another and are similar.
there is still so much certainty about the benefits of the co2 market, and still so much blindness to the climate catastrophe.
the few cosmetic reforms that the european parliament wants to make to the ets are tiny compared to the incredible environmental counterproductivity that the system has already shown.
at a crucial moment for the survival of humanity, the european parliament has already abandoned any ambitious energy and climate policy.
instead, it is the 'internal energy market' that should initiate the bifurcation of the european energy model and the co2 market that should steer the european economy towards sobriety in this area.
the archetype of the stupidity of this european liberal technocracy is the proposal to abandon public aid for certain renewable energies (land-based wind and solar) on the grounds that they would distort the proper functioning of the energy market and that they would be mature enough to face competition.
it is very important for the european union to adopt a common climate strategy so that all member states are held accountable to the common goal of preserving the environment.
many european laws have been enacted to this end and member states are doing their utmost to reduce their energy consumption.
however, it is essential to take account of the sectors affected by this reduction in energy consumption, such as industry and transport.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is essential, but it must not be at the expense of certain important sectors of the european economy.
on 23 january 2014, the commission presented its green paper on energy and climate policies for 2030, reversing its previous statements and positions.
the european parliament adopted a resolution confirming its previous climate positions, including the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 and the adoption of binding targets for greenhouse gas emissions reduction, energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy in energy consumption by 2030. however, its ambitions remain limited, its renewable energy and co2 reduction targets being only marginally higher than those of the commission.
i am particularly sorry that parliament is calling for a reduction in public intervention in all areas of energy and climate policy.
so i chose to abstain in the final vote because it is only a very small step in the face of the challenges of global warming.
climate change is a real threat to people, and that is why i voted today in favour of measures with binding targets: reduction of co2 emissions, development of renewable energy and improvement of energy efficiency.
in its proposals for 'energy and climate by 2030', unveiled on 22 january, the european commission has set only one really binding target: a 40% reduction in co2 emissions, coupled with a 27% target for renewable energies at european level, but it does not provide for mandatory national reductions, which makes its implementation uncertain.
the commission has also not proposed any measures to improve energy efficiency, which is a source of economic and climate benefits.
we need a clear and strong european position: the sector needs visibility to make the investment decisions that bind us in the medium and long term today, in order to make the european union the world leader in sustainable development.
the issue of global warming/climate change has been in the spotlight for many years, and europeans have been blamed for it at every turn.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is the workhorse of the well-meaning commission.
yet the eu is responsible for only 11% of these emissions worldwide.
despite sound economic sense, in the face of rising energy prices, the commission is proposing only costly and haphazard renewable energy sources such as wind and a reduction in ghg emission quotas for member states, an incentive to pollute elsewhere than in europe.
insecurity remains as regards the supply of renewable energy.
the european energy policy is not balanced and this is reflected in the commission's irresponsible proposals which only increase the union's regulatory burden.
after the 2009 energy and climate package, which was one of the greatest successes of the french eu presidency, our parliament adopted an ambitious roadmap to 2030. we know the crucial challenges facing humanity: limiting the rise in temperatures, co2 emissions, sea level rise and preserving biodiversity and our habitat.
these are the imperatives which require us to explore the ways of achieving an economy which is resource and energy efficient.
two types of energy seem to me to be extremely promising and should be encouraged: renewable marine energy, produced in particular from wind, waves and currents, which are clean, unlimited sources and job creators; and shale gas, which is hotly debated but can be exploited intelligently, provided that sustainable and non-abrasive exploration and extraction methods are developed.
these two projects represent the future of energy and are capable of guaranteeing the union an energy supply which respects the balance between industrial development and environmental protection.
in this way we can reduce our energy bill, our trade deficit and our dependence on oil and gas from unstable countries.
faced with the steady fall in the price of carbon in the european co2 emissions market and its negative consequences for the climate and low investments in carbon emissions, the european commission has proposed to save it by regulating the supply and demand of allowances.
behind this technical appearance is the whole of european policy to combat climate change.
indeed, with a price of a tonne of carbon dangerously close to zero, the carbon market becomes inefficient and therefore transparent... it no longer protects europeans and their environment from carbon emissions that contribute to climate change and natural disasters.
regarding the implementation of the greenhouse gas auction timetable, i voted against the european commission's proposals in the draft regulation because the commission did not provide an assessment showing, for the different industrial sectors, that no real impact is to be expected on the sectors or subsectors exposed to a significant risk of carbon leakage.
i opposed the european commission's draft regulation to amend european legislation on the determination of the volume of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013-2020. such a change in the timetable for auctioning co2 emission allowances runs counter to the principle of legal certainty which we want to respect in order to promote competitiveness and employment in europe.
last december, parliament endorsed the freezing of 900 million co2 emission allowances under the greenhouse gas emission trading system (ghg), otherwise known as the carbon market (cem), in order to make it at least operational.
as in december last year, i abstained because the 900 million co2 emission allowances frozen for the period 2014-2016 and put back on the market in 2019 are only a palliative and are far from matching the necessary reduction in ghg emissions.
the right wing as a whole, under pressure from the industrial lobbies, voted against this amendment, showing its opposition to any measure to reduce co2 emissions and its lack of concern for the issues of protecting the planet.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the resolution confirms the european parliament's desire to deepen relations between the european union and egypt, which would make the situation more sustainable.
waterway transport helps to reduce road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions.
in addition, water transport has low greenhouse gas emissions and it is worthwhile to develop it.
similarly, our amendment calling for compliance with environmental regulations for inland waterways was narrowly adopted, whereas the amendment on the search for intermodal connections was not.
this resolution stresses the importance of developing the quality infrastructure needed for inland waterway transport in the european union, ensuring river information services and providing appropriate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable freight transport services under current union programmes, in order to increase the environmental performance of inland waterway transport.
water transport has an important role to play if we are to take environmental issues seriously.
mr president, i asked for the floor earlier when we voted on the opinion of parliament on the commission's regulation on the adaptation of greenhouse gas emission quotas and i was not given the floor.
but make no mistake: the automobile industry has not waited for the european parliament to take the lead in reducing vehicle emissions.
the already very ambitious target of limiting co2 emissions to 95 g/km by 2020 was maintained, but with an additional deadline to give manufacturers more flexibility.
it therefore meets the need to protect the environment without harming our car industries.
today, if a qualified researcher who has a specific competence gets a stipend to come to europe to help build up a successful research environment – thereby contributing to growth, innovation and in addition, of course, cultural exchange – he or she is, in many countries, asked at present to leave the very day after his stipend runs out.
he or she cannot stay for another couple of months to consolidate that research environment.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
he stressed that all member states must remain firmly on the path towards sustainable budgets.
to achieve sustainable growth, we also need to restore lending to the economy, liquidity.
the main priorities underlined by the ministers include reforms to promote competitiveness in labour and goods markets, increased competitiveness and infrastructure investment in network industries, strict implementation of the services directive and the opening up of closed professions, as well as improving the business environment.
these priorities were further underlined by the ministers responsible for the internal market and industry at the competitiveness council last week, which sent a strong message on opening up the services sector and on addressing the impact of high energy prices on industry.
we have, in short, started down the path of a deep and genuine economic and monetary union to fix the structural faults that lay hidden during the good times, and have now put in place a more sustainable model.
it has added a strong economic dimension to a range of policies – from taxation, energy, transport, research, climate and environment, to judicial systems.
we should continue to look at ways to be more competitive: by making further progress on the single market and adopting the remaining proposals under single market act i and ii, in telecoms, transport, energy and the digital sector; by getting rid of the blockages in business and professional services, retail and construction; by cutting red tape and reducing regulatory burdens; and by improving access to finance for our smes.
we should be more resource and energy efficient and invest more in research, innovation and development.
the macroeconomic monitoring must be strengthened by adopting new indicators: employment rates, income inequality, poverty, education expenditure, but also the ecological footprint.
because, yes, the environmental impacts must be emphasized.
when will you really implement the green and energy transition that we need today?
so we set the course, and it's essential for our automotive industry and our climate!
however, as early as the debates in the parliament's committee on the environment, i had expressed my scepticism about the level of ambition: the criterion for calculating the distribution of effort between manufacturers should also have been reformed and not the "super-credits" to manufacturers multiplied.
in fact, by adding flexibility to flexibility, we clearly run the risk of discrediting the objectives because we help the manufacturers to circumvent them... finally, although i would have preferred a mechanism with a more restrictive framework and less favourable to the most polluting manufacturers, i am pleased that the union is maintaining its overall ambition to reduce co2 emissions.
i voted for the ulmer report on co2 emissions from passenger cars, which validates the agreement reached in the trilogue.
the purpose of this text is to amend european legislation in order to enable the european union to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
the road sector is the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in europe.
it is essential that the european union empowers itself to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by encouraging the production of cleaner and more fuel-efficient vehicles, while avoiding legal uncertainty with adverse effects on competitiveness and employment.
i voted in favour of this text, which has the effect of reducing co2 emissions by 2020 for new passenger cars.
the environmental constraint is at the heart of this text, which reflects the union's will to make a lasting commitment to reducing co2.
i voted in favour of this agreement because it is a balanced and pragmatic text, free of the unrealistic objectives that some people want, and will benefit the environment, industry and consumers at the same time.
the already very ambitious target of limiting co2 emissions to 95g per kilometre by 2020 was maintained, but with an additional deadline to give manufacturers more flexibility.
while cars are responsible for 12[nbsp]% of co2 emissions in europe, the european parliament has set new targets to reduce car-related pollution by 2020. new cars registered in europe will not be allowed to produce more than 95 grams of co2 per kilometre, compared to the current 130 grams per kilometre.
this will reduce our co2 emissions by 15 million tons a year.
i voted for this because i believe it is important to limit co2 emissions from road transport, which is one of the only sectors where co2 emissions are increasing.
i voted in favour of the report which gives substance to the european target of reducing co2 emissions by 95g per km from new cars by 2020. this ambitious target will save 15 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year.
with this text, the european union is demonstrating a sad persistence in its policy of ecological inaction and the relegation of ecological issues to green capitalism.
it is not enough to call out loud and loud for technical progress to save the day, thus justifying this lack of ambition and making ecological measures conditional on respect for sacred competition and the sound management of public finances.
the fight against global warming requires ambitious and immediate objectives, which include measures to reduce the use of private cars.
the large manufacturers must not be spared, as this text does, but must be made to face up to their ecological and social responsibilities.
the initial objective of this report was to further reduce co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
the current limit of 160g co2/km will be reduced to 130g in 2015 and then to 95g from 2020. however, these considerations have resulted in a lack of ecological ambition, notably through the proposal for the 'super-credit', a system allowing manufacturers to artificially lower the average co2 emissions of their fleet by any vehicle emitting less than 50g co2/km.
i welcome the outcome of this vote which sets out the ways in which co2 emissions from cars can be reduced to meet the targets.
co2 emissions per km will be reduced to 95 by 2020, 95[nbsp]% of cars will be affected and a meeting clause is put in place to establish a new reduction target in 2015 for the post-2020 period.
the european parliament adopted on 25 february the revision of the legislation on the reduction of co2 emissions from new passenger cars, the target of which, adopted in 2008, is to reach 95 grams of co2/km by 2020. this is a revision for nothing because the revised legislation retains a lot of flexibility to achieve this objective.
it does not set a new reduction target for the period after 2020. nothing is done to ensure that the co2 emission levels reported by car manufacturers correspond to the co2 emissions level in real driving situations, with emissions and consumption sometimes being 25%[nbsp ] higher than the advertised figures.
supported by the two right-wing groups (epp and ecr), the liberals and the social democrats, this status quo benefits mainly the large-cylinder car manufacturers and does not encourage the automobile industry to innovate and reduce energy consumption.
like the gue/ngl, i voted against this missed opportunity to demand a strong commitment from an industry that does not hesitate to call on the community for its restructuring and the social plans it is carrying out in this context[nbsp ] also missed opportunity to make a contribution to the fight against climate change.
as a vital force in the european union, i welcome the fact that young people can develop in a safe environment during their study or voluntary work abroad.
the fead will support food donations (collection, transport and distribution of food), waste reduction and support for initiatives contributing to a balanced diet.
eur 3.5 billion will be allocated over the period 2014-2020 in addition to basic food and material assistance, the implementation of social inclusion measures and the deployment of a policy to combat food waste.
the main objective of this regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of humans, animals and the environment by limiting the placing on the market of only effective biocidal products presenting acceptable risks and by encouraging the placing on the market of active substances presenting less risks.
this is a welcome development for the protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the text is broadly in line with reality, but it is far from a ban on products which are dangerous to the health of applicators, consumers and the environment.
our aim is to pursue the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this report helps to highlight the loss of biodiversity in europe due to, among other things, industrial genetic selection and the large-scale use of plant protection products.
as the world faces rapid population growth, the report examines the future challenges of the agricultural sector and the role of seeds in preserving quality agriculture and biodiversity.
although it calls for the preservation of biological diversity, it is an agro-industrial approach that prevails, while it is one of the major causes of biodiversity loss, a vision far removed from that of a sustainable and peasant agriculture capable of feeding the world's population and respectful of the environment and health.
the challenges of the fourth package are considerable: to enable rail to compete on an equal footing with other modes of transport, to improve the overall environmental impact of transport by promoting the least polluting and most efficient mode of transport in terms of fossil fuels, to promote the most socially and socially efficient mode of transport, to increase employment and activity in the railway sector by preserving the status of staff, these are the objectives pursued and, i hope, those which will be achieved by the reforms.
the first three railway packages were intended to reform rail transport to give it a new lease of life, to increase the volumes transported to reduce the cost of transporting goods and road pollution; we were going to reform to make transport more competitive, to make it more financially attractive to users, to win new investments in safety, to give new rights to employees.
we also had to go further to develop an environment of trust, an environment of fair culture, encouraging staff to report an incident to the security authorities.
the text will now allow data to be collected, processed and exchanged better within the union, in an environment of mutual trust, with the common aim of avoiding new disasters.
four priority objectives were therefore defined: preventing diseases by addressing the main risk factors (smoking, alcohol abuse, sedentary lifestyle, poor dietary behaviour); to protect citizens from serious cross-border health threats; to contribute to the creation of innovative and sustainable health systems; and to improve access to better and safer healthcare for all union citizens.
more effective prevention will increase the sustainability of our health care systems.
the challenge, as we can see, given the need to do prevention and vocational training in health and to develop telemedicine, everything about e-health, will be to make the most of funding to encourage innovation in the health sector, by improving the sustainability of care systems in the interests of our citizens.
moreover, we do need a project to transform our entire industry today, as part of an energy and environmental transition that is absolutely necessary.
the commission must ensure that european funds are used properly, because in order to combat unemployment it is important to concentrate efforts on interventions whose effectiveness has already been demonstrated and not to waste public money on the creation of non-market jobs.
this has been done against the wishes of the member states, in a climate of distrust at times, but it is now a reality and putting young europeans back to work is clearly a priority.
cohesion policy is essential for sustainable development and cohesion within european territories.
i voted in favour of the report on maximising the potential of the outermost regions, particularly in the fields of tourism, biodiversity, research and innovation with aerospace.
these regions have remarkable research and technology potential in a number of areas such as aerospace, renewable energy and maritime research.
the very technical name implies that the aim is to improve the integration of the outermost regions into all european policies, in particular by promoting a more sustainable approach to development.
the commission is now proposing to set up the 'politics and cooperation' part, particularly on human rights and sustainable development.
the new agreement sets out a number of common objectives and coordinated initiatives in the fields of regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, etc.
the 26 pages of this text attempt to cover youth unemployment, unemployment insurance policies and social stabilisers, the precarious situation of children, the employment of the elderly, the situation of women, tax progressiveness, mobility within the union and the sustainability of pension systems.
the remoteness, insularity, geographical specificities, and the cost of raw materials and energy can seriously hamper the manufacture and sale of local products.
the agreement, which will be concluded for a period of five years, will enable the two protagonists to strengthen political, economic and sectoral cooperation in areas such as migration, trade and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
competition must be used to the advantage of a competitive environment which guarantees european users the best possible service.
the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the past decade, but is now facing problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a business-friendly environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
the challenges here are broader: it is a question of combating climate change, of defining a new model of development and spatial planning.
there is a need to increase competition in rail transport, not only because it promotes growth and employment in the country, but also because the train is one of the least polluting means of transport for our environment, with reduced greenhouse gas and co2 emissions.
public transport must be put back at the heart of a policy of ecological transition.
the eu rail market has undergone profound changes over the past decade, but is now facing problems such as barriers to competition, discrimination and a lack of a business-friendly environment.
in addition to the job creation that this will generate, the text aims to make transport more fluid and eco-sustainable.
- although rail transport is one of the safest modes of transport in the european union, accidents, however rare, can have disastrous consequences for human life and the environment.
continuous development of the environment and the discovery of deficiencies makes it possible to constantly improve safety.
it pays particular attention to raising awareness of risk factors (smoking, alcoholism, environment, etc.)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the economic and financial crisis has created a climate of uncertainty within the european union and has undermined investor confidence in european markets.
while emphasising the need for long-term investment to create jobs and achieve social and sustainable development, the text endorses and promotes all the austerity policies implemented by the eu in recent years.
very little is said about the necessary long-term investments in education, research and development, innovation, the ecological transition or infrastructure.
on the contrary, the report 'considers that high-quality securitisation can play a useful role in the financial intermediation of assets' believes that financial speculation can continue to flourish[nbsp ], praises public-private partnerships, 'welcomes the progress of the ongoing negotiations on ttip' (the great transatlantic trade and investment partnership) or 'stresses that a business climate favourable to investors [...] is an indispensable condition for making the european union an attractive destination for foreign investment'.
this paper examines issues such as mining and sustainable development, the role of the private sector, international trade and investment regimes and the use of revenues, and the disconnection of armed conflict from mineral exploitation.
it seems to me important to be sensitive not only to the environmental issues that the extractive industries represent but also to social issues.
energy resources in developing countries are often linked to tensions and many conflicts.
it is therefore legitimate to encourage extractive companies in developing countries to adopt transparency policies on their environmental and social standards.
a comprehensive strategy would thus make it possible to better manage mineral-fuelled conflicts and the environmental, social and human rights consequences of mining.
the aim is to adopt a comprehensive strategy to address the root causes of mineral-fuelled conflict, to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining.
while european regulation on this subject is welcome, i doubt that the measures mentioned in this report will be sufficient to stop mining at the expense of people and the human ecosystem.
as i said, we considered this a serious matter, which is why we wanted to meet as many stakeholders as possible - both indonesian and european - in the field, in order to formulate the best possible recommendations and to ensure that the agreement we want is the best possible and, above all, that it guarantees that the wood and wood products we will import into the european union meet - of course - sustainability criteria.
it is obvious that this is a major challenge for the climate - as we know - for biodiversity and, of course, also from the point of view of the people who live in the forest or the forest.
but, again, since this will be the only occasion for the european parliament to express very strongly what it expects from the european commission, we wanted to do so here, and i would like to say that the european parliament's objective in this matter is really to ensure that the voluntary partnership agreement and the licences that will be granted meet the objectives of protecting the climate and protecting biodiversity, while ensuring, of course, the sustainable development of indonesia.
this will bring us closer to reaching our ultimate objective, which is without any doubt the sustainable management of indonesia’s forests and the well-being of those who depend on those forests.
the aim of this parliament is, of course, as some of my colleagues have said, to ensure that the flegt licences that will be issued give european citizens - consumers and european authorities - the assurance that the timber is coming from sustainable and traceable systems, which have been certified and legalised under good conditions.
i would like to thank you, and i would like to stress this, for your commitment to come before the european parliament and tell us and report to us on the progress made on the indonesian side in the verification system to ensure that we are actually contributing, from the european parliament's point of view, as you, from the european commission's point of view, and as the indonesian authorities do, to the good development of this country, to the protection of the forest, to the protection of the climate, to the protection of biodiversity and of all the people who live in the forest or the forest.
europe must not stand idly by; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i welcome this debate on behalf of my group because we know that the impact of natural disasters and climate change is now a matter of collective security on a global scale, and that our countries in europe are suffering the consequences in all sectors.
in the outermost regions, which are small island territories, there is a concentration of impacts, and our territories are particularly vulnerable to all the consequences of climate change which, it should be remembered, are already under way.
you seem suddenly concerned about climate change - and you're right!
we have no short memory: whether it is the climate package or the mandatory shift from the erdf or the eafrd to preventive measures, you have always refused our 'green' proposals.
in france, 1,700 fishing vessels were docked for three months; the beaches have been polluted by oil pellets spilled by ships, which take advantage of bad weather to clean their tanks, with consequences for the environment and tourism.
commissioner, i have heard a lot of people say that the private copying fee system would be obsolete in a digital broadcasting environment.
in short, it is a waste of time and energy, since everyone is resigned to defending his system, his model, believing that he is right.
its purpose is to establish a legislative framework to ensure the traceability of wood products, to establish a verification procedure to certify that wood products exported to the eu market have been lawfully acquired, harvested, transported and exported and to ensure the sound management and sustainable exploitation of indonesian forests.
this text improves the traceability of indonesian wood products and promotes sustainable management.
it represents an important step in the fight against deforestation and forest degradation, which pose threats to biodiversity and sustainable development.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
the agreement before us is part of the flegt (forest law enforcement for governance and trade) framework, which i supported in january 2011. but this agreement only allows partial progress towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for sanctions for all environmental crimes.
in this hot climate, it can no longer afford to grope and formulate declarations of intent.
fortunately, 'european diplomacy' is only a waste of money and bureaucracy, alongside that of the usa and its services.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
the agreement before us is part of the flegt (forest law enforcement for governance and trade) framework, which i supported in january 2011. but this agreement only allows partial progress towards the necessary establishment of a mechanism for sanctions for all environmental crimes.
infrastructure, energy, digital, research, road, rail, air, we know the headlines.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the negotiations with the council have been difficult, but the result, although less ambitious than the position adopted by our european parliament in july 2013, is this regulation which allows the european union to ratify the nagoya protocol and to take part in the next un conference on biodiversity to be held at the end of this year in south korea.
to ensure sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, the european union needs to strengthen the technological and scientific foundations of its economy and therefore cooperate closely with the united states on many projects.
the agreement covers agriculture, among other things, while europe is opposed to gmos, and non-nuclear energy, while we are trying to resist the exploitation of shale gas.
as genetic resources represent a significant economic interest, their exploitation can cause serious environmental and ethical problems.
the conclusion of the procedure for the ratification by the european union of the nagoya protocol on biodiversity is good news in the fight against bio-piracy.
i am voting in favour to support the fight to preserve biodiversity.
it would, for example, improve the union's position in controlling illegal trade and the misuse of genetic resources by pharmaceutical laboratories, a modern scourge with a disastrous impact on the environment.
genetic resources must be protected as part of the preservation of biodiversity.
first, this legislation will provide european citizens with a guarantee of traceability and ethics by ensuring sustainable access to genetic resources.
biodiversity is a source of innovation and scientific discovery.
the spanish authorities question the opening of the european union textile market to competition, in particular from china and other far eastern countries, but do not dare to mention a possible solidarity protectionism that would put an end to social and ecological dumping.
this will help to re-employ some 300[nbsp] workers made redundant and create long-term sustainable jobs for the people of the region.
these do not simplify legislation, nor do they take account of innovation and the need to preserve biodiversity and protect farmers.
i voted against this text on seeds proposed by the european commission, because it risks adding bureaucratic complexity for small producers and threatening biodiversity.
more importantly, the report failed to take account of innovations and the need to preserve biodiversity and farmers, and failed to provide any answers to businesses on administrative simplification.
the trade union and associative movements accuse the commission of strengthening the patentability of a part of life and of being contrary to the union's objective of protecting biodiversity.
the ball is now in the council's court, which will have to decide whether it supports the european parliament's position on preserving a more sustainable and peasant farming.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague, mr ivailo kalfin, on the european union guarantee to the european investment bank (eib) in the event of losses resulting from financing operations for projects outside the union for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the report mainly proposes to refocus the geographical scope of the eib's mandate, to set a new ceiling for financing operations, to strengthen the climate change component of the mandate and to better align eib financing operations with union policies.
i am opposed to the logic of productivist projects in a lamentable indifference to the environment, just as i am opposed to the financing techniques which encourage the privatization of public services and facilities.
as genetic resources represent a significant economic interest, their exploitation can cause serious environmental and ethical problems.
this is in line with the improvement of biodiversity conservation.
we must rapidly achieve an ambitious multilateral mechanism that can meet the challenges of preserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
this regulation provides for the transposition into member states of the nagoya protocol on genetic resources and the protection of biodiversity.
i voted in favour of this report, which states that the objective of the regulation is to achieve a fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources, thereby contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components, in line with the objectives of the convention on biological diversity.
it is part of the goal of a more inclusive and sustainable world, preserving biodiversity and its use by local populations.
i voted in favour of this report which introduces new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
this text is a step forward for road safety and environmental protection in the union in that it sets stricter standards for vehicle tracking.
the aim is to reduce the number of deaths caused by road accidents in the eu, and to reduce emissions of pollutants due to inadequate maintenance of vehicles, by increasing the frequency and quality of periodic roadworthiness tests.
in the field of technical control, only two elements must prevail: the safety of users and the fight against air pollution.
i voted in favour of this report, which introduces new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
the introduction of a reward system for companies that choose eco-sustainable choices in their light commercial vehicles should therefore help to empower companies in the move towards low-carbon mobility.
i obviously share the commission's two objectives of improving road safety and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
the causal link between these checks and the improvement of road safety or the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not clearly justified in the text.
i voted in favour of this report, which proposes to introduce a risk classification system to focus controls on vehicles operated by companies with a poor safety record, and thus to reward companies that, in the operation of their vehicles, pay attention to safety and environmental protection.
this is a bad logic: they must give priority to data that are important for user safety and the ecological transition in transport (by integrating, for example, railway statistics).
the proposal encourages electronic invoicing and proposes a european standard, but behind the ecological goal of zero paper, the main aim is to remove barriers to the internal market and to promote competition.
this report shall ensure that imports comply with minimum quality and environmental standards of the union as set out in the single cmo.
i also think it is legitimate to tax products which do not comply with european environmental or animal welfare standards.
it is important to enforce our health and environmental standards.
it finances projects which have no connection with the needs of the ecological transition and which do not meet social criteria.
some references to the need for investment in renewable energy are well-admitted as good intentions and wishful thinking.
focusing on competitiveness only linked to intensive production development, it does not support the evolution of production models towards more sustainability and innovation.
horticulturalists face major challenges: adapting to the effects of climate change and feeding the growing population, while limiting the impact on the environment.
this will only be possible by taking into account good practice in sustainable development.
i also share the desire to include 'protected crops' in horizon 2020 proposals to stimulate innovation in areas such as sustainable crop protection or sustainable use of water and nutrients.
we need to help the horticultural sector to meet the challenges it faces such as adaptation to climate change and the economic crisis.
the text proposes a number of ways to increase the level of investment and competitiveness, whether through producer organisations, supply chain codes of conduct or research programmes (in the field of water and energy efficiency for example).
we are a long way from the necessary ecological planning that i advocate to go towards extensive, farming and horticulture that respects the ecosystem.
in addition, the sector faces many challenges such as adapting to the consequences of climate change and supplying a growing global population.
i therefore voted against this own-initiative report by the right and the liberals in the european parliament, in total disagreement with this approach of productivism and economic liberalism which is incompatible with sustainable and supportive horticulture.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment, and for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of the environment.
the challenges and difficulties are high, given the wide diversity of actors and the complexity of procedures, the importance of security, economic and environmental issues and, unfortunately, divergent national and sectoral interests.
airspace remains highly fragmented, which means that increased traffic will result in congestion in airspace, with costs in terms of economic efficiency, environmental impact (including co2 emissions and excessive fuel consumption), quality of service for passengers, including travel time and costs, and, last but not least, safety.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have said this evening, given their impact on the climate, fluorinated gases are a real danger and their use should be stopped as soon as economically viable solutions are available.
i tabled several amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety because i felt it was essential to ensure that we made the transition to solutions that were less harmful to our environment and to take account of the economic realities, mr president - this is still our subject - the very real problems faced by those who use these fluorinated gases.
i am pleased with the final text because we are setting clear objectives for protecting our climate.
it will be a great occasion to remind europeans that they want policymakers to protect them in the fight against climate change and i will be in your member state, commissioner, to offer you champagne so that we can celebrate this great event together.
the decisions which the council will take on energy policy, competitiveness and the european semester are the driving forces behind our ambition for europe.
without an energy policy for 28 member states, we will remain dependent, or even hostage, to energy suppliers in unstable regions who are prepared to use energy as an economic weapon.
there are now 20 million smes in europe and by optimising their competitiveness through the creation of a favourable environment and the fight against distortions of competition between states, we are effectively helping smes and encouraging recruitment.
but in the context of the european semester, it is all europeans who must negotiate the energy issue.
because one country, even germany, will only have weight if we have a european energy policy.
i do not think, my dear watson, that the epp group can be said to be against the environment.
i am also in favour of the environment but we must be very careful.
let us not put our businesses in trouble because of environmental problems.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the energy efficiency of the community's coal and steel industries.
we are now at the heart of this energy divide within the european union, this lack of control.
mr barroso talks about an industrial renaissance, but what has he done to make energy the spearhead of this industrial renaissance?
we must implement this european energy community which will enable us to create new jobs throughout europe and i can only rejoice that perhaps the absence of mr juncker at the european council will allow progress to be made on energy taxation to put finance back at the service of this common strategy which we need.
i am sure you have noticed that the president of the french republic has proposed strong initiatives in the field of energy, including on the basis of franco-german cooperation, which would create european champions, which seems to me to coincide exactly with the strategy we are proposing.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the ambition is to conclude a comprehensive agreement covering customs tariffs, non-tariff barriers and other trade issues such as services, investment, public procurement, regulatory issues, competition and sustainable development.
thailand is far from applying the same environmental and social standards as the union, particularly in the fisheries sector, and to include these products would be in total contradiction to our ambitions, we cannot have a two-speed fisheries policy.
i voted for this report which stresses that the health and well-being of the population is profoundly affected by food and the environment, and therefore by the type of farming, fishing and livestock farming.
the text therefore calls on the member states to integrate the study and sensory experience of food, nutritional health and eating habits into school education from early childhood, in order to contribute to improving the health and well-being of the population, to improving the quality of food and to promoting respect for the environment.
this exemption would have set a very unfortunate precedent in the face of the many unknowns and uncertainties in science, the environment and health related to nanomaterials, which are already abundant in our daily lives.
support for technological innovation must not be at the expense of protecting health and the environment.
i voted in favour of this report because it brings together the four key performance objectives of safety, the environment, capacity and economic efficiency.
finally, it is important to work towards reducing the impact of air transport on the climate and the environment.
the objective is to lay down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky in order to preserve the current safety standards for air traffic and to contribute to the sustainable development of the air transport system, in particular by reducing the impact on the climate.
as airspace remains highly fragmented, the increase in traffic is likely to result in increased congestion, with costs in economic, environmental and safety terms.
the sassoli report saw this and reversed the wording, moving safety to the top of the list and adding points on environmental protection.
given their impact on the climate, fluorinated gases are a real danger and their use should be phased out, as soon as economically viable solutions are available.
i had tabled several amendments in the parliament's committee on the environment because i felt it was essential to ensure this transition to solutions that were less harmful to our environment, but also to take account of the very concrete economic realities faced by those who use these fluorinated gases: we must thus fight against the legal instability that undermines our economy.
i am pleased with the final text, because we have set ourselves clear objectives to protect our climate and we are taking the time to achieve them.
this text represents a major step forward in the fight against global warming by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
these gases, which are found in refrigeration systems, aerosols and insulating foams, are particularly dangerous for the environment.
at a time when reducing greenhouse gases and their impact on the environment is one of the major challenges facing the european union, it seems to me legitimate to seek to replace the use of such gases.
this is why innovation for sustainable growth must be encouraged.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague bas eickhout on the european regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases.
these greenhouse gases can be replaced by substitutes with lower or no climate impact, which would reduce annual emissions by two thirds by 2030 at relatively low cost.
the replacement of these gases, particularly in refrigeration or air conditioning products, will be carried out differently depending on the global warming potential of the product concerned, so as not to place too much pressure on companies.
- the montreal protocol provides for the global phase-out and reduction of most ozone-depleting substances.
by 2050, the target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% compared with 1990 levels.
to achieve this, a reduction of non-co2 emissions (including fluorinated greenhouse gases) of 72-73% by 2030 is required.
unfortunately, though all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, emissions of fluorinated gases in the eu have increased by 60% since 1990. the proposal maintains the current provisions of the f-gas regulation, with some adjustments to ensure better implementation and enforcement by national authorities.
with the majority of my fellow meps, i voted in favour of a directive to limit the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases, known as hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs).
replacing fluorinated gases with new, less polluting products could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by two thirds by 2030 and limit global warming.
i voted in favour of the report, which aims to limit the emissions of fluorinated gases, which have the greatest global warming potential, in the european union.
reducing fluorinated gas emissions is an important and necessary measure.
the timetable for the gradual reduction of the maximum quantities of hfcs placed on the market should also have been more ambitious, in order to be in line with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
only drastic reduction and control of greenhouse gas emissions, accompanied by significant public investment and financial support, will solve the ecological crisis.
fluorinated greenhouse gases are widely used in heat pumps, air conditioning systems and refrigeration equipment.
they contributed to 2.2% of the eu-15 emissions in 2011 and could contribute to 8% of total greenhouse gas emissions in 2050. it is therefore important, as well as the fight against co2 emissions, to combat the emission of fluorinated gases.
to do this, the report proposes to tax those responsible for these emissions (€10 per tonne of co2 equivalent).
a more ambitious text could have been reached, but i believe that the commitments obtained are positive and constitute a first step towards reducing emissions of fluorinated gases.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the tran committee, i voted in favour of this text which aims to ensure a high level of environmental protection by reducing fluorinated gas emissions by two thirds by 2030 compared to their current level.
prevention is always better than cure, including in relation to the environment: environmental impact studies are a very good thing, because they allow to predict the environmental consequences of an investment and thus protect our environment and improve the use of funds.
at a time when europe is only just beginning to raise its head, my group has thrown out all unnecessary, ineffective or redundant measures so that this text remains an effective tool for improving projects with an environmental impact.
it is clear that we must both facilitate exploration, in order to know what wealth europe has at its disposal, and strictly control exploitation to avoid damaging environmental degradation.
although this report states that it is essential to take account of the environmental effects of public and private projects, i can only deplore its weaknesses, particularly in relation to the exploitation of shale gas.
the purpose of this text is to regulate environmental impact studies and environmental impact assessments of certain public and private projects.
this legislation should help to ensure better protection of the environment and of european citizens.
environmental efficiency and economic efficiency are thus precisely combined in this text.
i supported the report by my colleague andrea zanoni on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain projects through impact studies.
these will have to take into account new environmental factors such as biodiversity and climate, while providing information on risk assessment and hydromorphological changes.
certain public and private projects, such as the construction of motorways or mining sites, must be subject to an environmental impact assessment (eia) in order to be authorised by the member states.
the european commission had proposed a revision of this directive to simplify procedures and take account of new environmental factors.
i voted in favour of the revision of the text on minimum requirements for the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects.
the aim of this text is to achieve a high level of environmental protection, to simplify procedures and to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens.
new factors such as biodiversity will have to be taken into account, transparency and public participation will be facilitated by the creation of a central internet portal, and rules on the management of conflicts of interest will be strengthened.
this text proposes some positive improvements to the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of public and private projects.
however, the desire to simplify administrative procedures or to reduce the number of projects which at the end of the preliminary verification procedure will be subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment is counterproductive from an environmental point of view.
while it is necessary to ban fracking and shale gas exploitation for reasons primarily of climate, the environment committee of the european parliament has not even been able to maintain the (largely insufficient) position it had been set and to introduce an obligation to evaluate all projects for the exploration, evaluation and exploitation of shale gas and oil!
i voted in favour of this text, which makes it possible to update this major european policy which has made it possible to take account of the consequences of our actions on the environment at each stage of the major infrastructure projects we undertake.
i voted in favour of this report on the assessment of the environmental impact of public and private projects, because it makes good progress in environmental matters: improving the definition of biodiversity, better management of impact studies in terms of transparency, citizen participation, precision of criteria, or strengthening the fight against conflicts of interest or penalties in case of misapplication.
many environmental associations are in favour of adopting the text, considering that it largely passes the cost/benefit test.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
it also lists high impact projects, such as deep boreholes, for which an environmental impact assessment should be considered, irrespective of their size.
in october 2012, the commission presented a revision of the 2011 directive on public or private projects requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) and on those subject to a preliminary verification procedure.
the proposal specifies the criteria for choosing between the two procedures and lists a number of new projects that may be submitted to the procedure in order to ensure compliance with the union's environmental objectives.
however, the agreement excludes shale gas projects using hydraulic fracturing, the health and environmental consequences of which are becoming increasingly well known.
i therefore voted against this revision because there is no justification for excluding the extraction of shale gas at the expense of protecting the environment and the health of europeans.
the copernicus programme will enable the european union to collect information on its environment, i.e.
on land, in the marine environment and in the atmosphere.
it will be of great use in the fight against climate change and for the protection of european citizens.
i voted in favour of this report, which extends the copernicus programme on the european union's space policy for the period 2014-2020. it aims to establish a european earth observation capacity and provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support.
it provides the information on the environment needed to make effective policy decisions.
i welcome the adoption of this text, which will enable the implementation of the copernicus programme for the period 2014-2020. this earth observation programme is a flagship programme of the european union which contributes to environmental protection and the fight against climate change.
the report aims to set up the copernicus earth observation and monitoring programme for the period 2014-2020 in the continuity of gmes (global monitoring for environment and security).
copernicus is a flagship programme of the european union, which contributes to environmental protection, the fight against climate change and the promotion of the union as a key player in the field of advanced technology.
it also aims to ensure the uninterrupted provision of data and information on environmental and safety issues.
on wednesday 12 march, the european parliament adopted the copernicus programme, which aims to install european satellites to monitor climate change and improve the safety of european citizens.
in particular, it will provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support.
i voted in favour of the report on the copernicus programme, which aims to establish a european earth observation capability and provide a land, marine and atmospheric monitoring service, as well as an emergency management service and security support.
this programme is a very positive element in furthering the union's knowledge of its environment, particularly in the field of climate change.
the copernicus programme covered by the text submitted is an extension of the existing earth observation satellite programme, gmes (global monitoring for environment and security).
the data collected should be useful in the fields of environmental protection, climate, civil protection and security, but also in the economy.
the aim is to streamline the use of environmental and safety data from multiple sources in order to provide reliable information and services.
copernicus is a programme of great importance in many areas (urban planning, transport, air quality, water and forest management, natural disasters, monitoring of ocean ecosystems, observation of climate change, etc.).
i voted in favour of this report which proposes the extension of the copernicus programme for the period 2014-2020. copernicus is the new name for the european earth observation programme, gmes (global monitoring for environment and security).
it covers all activities aimed at ensuring the uninterrupted provision of accurate and reliable data and information on environmental and safety issues to users responsible for policy development, implementation and monitoring in the european union and its member states.
in addition, copernicus will provide a wealth of environmental information, which will help to protect the environment and combat climate change.
it called for a further strengthening of the eastern partnership's multilateralism and for better crossborder and regional cooperation, particularly in the fields of transport, the environment, border security and energy security.
it 'reminds the purpose of the eastern partnership: market economy'; welcomes the establishment of deep and comprehensive free trade agreements (with the republic of moldova and georgia) and readmission agreements; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report obviously welcomes the signing of the eu-turkey readmission agreement and insists on labelling the pkk as a terrorist organisation in the current volatile and complex negotiating climate... even criticism of press freedom or of the power struggle between the various conservative factions is very timid.
the challenges posed by melting ice for the exploitation of the territory are to be considered from a socio-economic but also environmental point of view.
it seems to me therefore particularly essential that the european union should adopt an effective strategy for the protection of the environment in this fragile area.
the resolution recalls the union's commitment to the arctic region and proposes a concrete action plan, including on socioeconomic, scientific, energy and environmental issues.
some environmental protection elements are well mentioned, but this resolution puts the economic interests of the union before the interests of the people.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
with austerity policies, the crisis has intensified, while we need a recovery plan to prepare for the future, especially focused on the ecological transition.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report, which has been produced by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it is therefore important that at european level the commission proposes to the member states that they intensify the monitoring of commercial and recreational fishing activities and suggests that they organise access to the resource between professional and recreational fishermen to enable sustainable exploitation.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has just made a historic breakthrough in fisheries management by adopting a tool: maximum sustainable yield.
the latest figures from the commission on mediterranean stocks show that there is no correlation between fishing effort and the sustainability of the resource.
too often, european waste, including end-of-life ships, is sent to the other side of the world without considering the ecological consequences of such traffic.
the aim of the convention is to improve the protection of human health and the environment by means of safer dismantling of ships.
i have already pointed out that the hong kong convention is imperfect in terms of protecting workers and the environment: it does not prohibit 'beaching', that is, the voluntary beaching of a ship to allow it to be dismantled on a beach.
the aim of the convention is to ensure that ships, when dismantled at the end of their operational life, do not present unnecessary risks to the health and safety of persons and to the environment.
it addresses the full range of problems associated with ship dismantling, as well as concerns about working and environmental conditions in many ship-breaking facilities around the world.
we therefore believe that a mechanism should be set up focusing on the objectives of sustainable growth and financial stability, in order to prevent and avoid emergency situations as in the past, but allowing member states to implement the growth policies necessary to get out of the crisis once and for all.
i believe, on the contrary, that social policies must always be given priority and that budgetary sustainability comes at that price.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i voted in favour of this report, which aims to improve network and information security in the union by requiring operators in key sectors such as energy, health and banking to notify the competent national authorities of security incidents.
personal data collected by private and public actors in areas such as energy, transport or health are sometimes highly sensitive and therefore need to be protected more closely.
these organizations systematically promote anglo-saxon accounting standards which concentrate all economic and financial information in the interests of shareholders, whereas accounting standards in the general interest should, on the contrary, give priority to criteria of productive, ecological, fiscal and social information.
our aim is to force manufacturers to make their phones compatible with each other so that this single charger will not only end the nightmare of millions of users, but also reduce the costs associated with buying phones, and finally and above all reduce the volume of electronic waste in the european union.
and contribute to reducing waste.
environmental, safety and equal access to services are being pushed into the background where they should be.
this political crisis cannot be resolved by violence or by the decisions of "transitional authorities", where far-right political groups (such as the svoboda party) hold several ministerial posts, all in a climate of widespread corruption, with neither side having anything to envy the other.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague nirj deva on the role of property rights, property regimes and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development in developing countries.
it thus encourages the implementation of a roadmap for the guarantee of land rights, including property rights, and the establishment of sustainable land governance in developing countries.
it is quite appropriate to define priority areas of action, such as the fight against social and environmental dumping or the coherent management of migration flows.
the report proposes a number of measures to make the objective of policy coherence for development operational and suggests priority areas for action, including migration management, trade, social, agricultural, energy and environmental issues.
it even denounces social and environmental dumping and tax evasion, but the judge in this arbitration is supposed to be the president of the commission!
russia is the main energy supplier to some member states and there are many financial interests to be defended in russia.
the climate of tension, hostility and deception is already sadly at work.
the terrorist attack on a south korean tourist bus on february 16th is a sign of a worsening situation and a climate of chronic violence, which has deep-seated and endemic causes.
but if there is one thing i have realised, it is that the digital world is an ecosystem.
that is why, ten months ago, i stood before many of you and promised new telco proposals, looking at the whole ecosystem and making a difference to the life of every person you represent.
as rightly pointed out in your report, the implementation of the internal security strategy and the eu policy cycle on serious and organised crime allowed progress on strategic objectives as well as concrete measures on everything from protecting children to support for trafficked persons, making the online environment more secure and providing tools for civil society to better prevent violent extremism.
environmental protection and economic competitiveness are by no means two opposing objectives.
however, if environmental standards imposed on european companies are too high, they will distort competition with companies from the rest of the world.
the same principle applies to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for aircraft.
we must temporarily exclude intercontinental flights from the scope of the european system for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances.
we must find the right balance between environmental protection and economic competitiveness.
with this text, we are taking action on vehicle noise levels by lowering the limit values for vehicle-related noise emissions in their diversity.
i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because the objective of protecting health and the environment must be as compatible as possible with safeguarding the internal market.
i voted in favour of this text, which should make it possible to combat noise pollution from motor vehicles more effectively, while preserving the competitiveness of our automotive industry.
these new rules will have an impact on health and the environment, as more than half of the urban population in europe is exposed to noise levels of more than 55 decibels due to road traffic.
reducing vehicle noise is important to protect public health and the environment in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
more generally, the union is showing its concern to adopt a rigorous approach in its action for sustainable economic development and acceptable working conditions in a country where rice cultivation is a key activity.
however, the rapporteur, my colleague mr paul murphy, pays particular attention to the 'overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and the eradication of poverty in that country'.
it adds a reference to the gsp+ ('special incentive scheme') which grants additional trade preferences to developing countries which have signed a number of international social and environmental conventions, introducing into eu trade law the idea of a possible hierarchy of standards.
we wanted this regulation to take account of the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment.
it is based on the principles of solidarity farming: 'this regulation is based on the recognition of the right of small farmers to a decent income and to a safe and healthy working environment ...'.
finally, although the commission's initial objective was to align the regulation with the lisbon treaty, the now amended regulation pays particular attention to the 'overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions in bangladesh and poverty eradication in bangladesh'.
i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to establish a strong, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is conducive to innovation and competitiveness in the medical device industry.
again, the report does not address the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced.
the report ignores the crucial question of the social and ecological conditions under which these medical devices are produced.
i voted in favour of this regulation which aims to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is conducive to innovation and competitiveness in the in vitro medical device industry and that allows quick and cost-effective market access for innovative devices for the benefit of patients and healthcare professionals.
the resolution aimed to present the strengths of the european environmental economic accounts in order to combat global warming and protect europe's fauna and flora.
the effectiveness of national economic policies must be assessed by taking environmental indicators into account.
the impact on the environment affects the well-being of the population.
it is therefore necessary to measure effectively the environmental progress made by each country.
in order to obtain the most reliable and comprehensive indicators possible, it is therefore logical to extend the european environmental economic accounts to new modules such as environmental protection expenditure.
the environmental goods and services sector will therefore be at the heart of this new regulation, which i welcome.
the purpose of this proposal is to amend the regulation on european environmental economic accounts adopted in 2011. the aim of this regulation is to provide additional indicators to measure the impact of the economy on the environment and also the impact of environmental policies on the economy.
in particular, new economic accounts are to be added: the environmental protection expenditure account, the 'environmental goods and services sectors' covering products and services developed for the purpose of environmental protection and the physical energy flow accounts.
new indicators of development, well-being and sustainability are needed to better understand the impact of human activities on the environment and on people.
in april 2010, the european commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental economic accounts, which came into force in july 2011. it introduced three modules: air emission accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts.
these three new modules were then only considered as a first step towards the establishment of a sound environmental accounting instrument.
in line with this trend, this report introduces three new accounts: the environmental protection expenditure accounts, the sum of all environmental goods and services produced and the energy flow accounts.
more reliable statistics and accounts will help to develop a more effective environmental and energy policy.
i voted in favour of regulation (eu) no 691/2011 on european environmental economic accounts, which establishes a common framework for the collection, preparation, transmission and evaluation of european environmental economic accounts in a modular form.
at this stage, the modules to be implemented from 2013 are air emissions, environmental taxes and flow and material accounts.
in accordance with article 10 of the regulation, the commission proposes to add 3[nbsp ]new modules for the environmental protection expenditure accounts, energy flow accounts and eco-activity accounts.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution from industrial sources is a very good one.
it will thus benefit the environment, european woodworking companies and consumers.
in the fight against the plunder of biodiversity, the issue of forest destruction is of the utmost importance.
in the end, this vote only reinforces our view of nuclear power as a closed environment, closed to any outside control and to any citizen's right to look.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs.
france is one of the world leaders in civil nuclear energy.
this technology also accounts for a major share of energy consumption in france.
i am in favour of increased security around nuclear energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the proposal for a directive aims to establish a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading in the european union with a view to the implementation by 2020 of an international convention applying a global market mechanism to international aviation emissions.
in other words, the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the aviation sector.
this vote represents a minimal compromise by the most polluting countries on our climate policies.
parliament has endorsed a compromise limiting the coverage of the european emissions trading system to intra-european flights only.
by accepting this dossier, the european union has shown its weakness in relation to major powers such as china and the united states in terms of environmental legislation.
by voting on this text, the european parliament gave its opinion on the application of the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading mechanism in the field of aviation.
intercontinental flights are rightly excluded from the scope of the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme until 2016. by limiting this mechanism to intra-european flights, we want to facilitate the conclusion of an international agreement on co2 emission reductions in the field of aviation.
in this compromise we are adopting a balanced position between respect for the environment and the competitiveness of the air transport sector.
i voted in favour of an amendment to this report which would exclude flights outside the european union from the scope of this mechanism until 2016. in line with recent commitments made to the international civil aviation organisation, such a measure is intended to facilitate the conclusion of a global agreement on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.
the text as amended must therefore be able to protect the climate while preserving the competitiveness of our airlines.
it also excludes flights between the union and its outermost regions from the scope of the emissions trading scheme.
i voted in favour of the agreement reached with the council on the application of the carbon tax until 2016 only to flights between airports in the european economic area.
indeed, i believe that a rejection of this agreement is not satisfactory because it would only provide arguments to encourage some states not to commit to an international agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and would send the wrong signal to key partners such as the united states, china, india or brazil to reach an ambitious agreement at the 21st un climate change conference in paris in 2015.
in writing.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague peter liese on the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances for international aviation.
the main question was whether international flights should be subject to the ets, at the risk of starting a trade war with china or russia, or whether it was better to exclude them from the ets until the international civil aviation organization meets in 2016 and adopts comprehensive measures to combat greenhouse gases.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions from civil aviation is unavoidable and necessary.
it is ideologically committed to the principles of the carbon market and has given up any ecological ambition.
the report also shows a glaring setback in european environmental ambitions: it celebrates the capitulation of the european union on the international scene.
instead of being a power that firmly imposes its principles of combating global warming, it is entering into a game of compromise with powers that have not been very prominent in recent years in the fight for environmental protection, especially the united states.
i am firmly opposed to the principle of a carbon market and i am in favour of an eco-socialist policy which would involve ecological planning, in particular for the development of alternative transport solutions, in international aviation.
this ecological planning is not compatible with the liberal and austerity policy of the european union which is reflected in this text.
this report focuses on the inclusion of civil aviation in the european emissions trading system.
it validates a compromise reached between the european institutions which provides for the exclusion of flights to and from third countries from the application of the european carbon tax until 2016, pending an international agreement on the application of an emission trading scheme to civil aviation.
until now, flights to third countries were excluded, but those to the outermost regions were subject to the carbon tax.
i therefore supported this report which calls for the exclusion of the ors from the european greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, as long as third countries are not subject to it.
the non-application of the aviation carbon tax to intercontinental flights is an important concession by the european union to third countries such as china, the united states, russia and india.
by 2016, we must all work towards a market mechanism to regulate aviation emissions globally.
indeed, today the full application of the carbon tax to airlines operating in the ors would mechanically increase the cost of air tickets for passengers to and from these regions.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
we believe that important geostrategic changes are underway in other parts of the world, including the emergence of a multipolar international scene characterised by the presence of new actors with competing regional and global ambitions, as well as increasing interdependence; the rise of multidimensional and asymmetric threats; the reorientation of us security policy towards the asia-pacific region; the growing struggle for energy and resource security; the increasingly severe consequences of climate change; and a severe and protracted global economic and financial crisis from which no eu member state is escaping.
this report presents an authoritarian and conflicting view of international relations on the part of the european union, which is subject to the "reorientation of us policy towards the asia-pacific region and the growing struggle for energy and resource security".
finally, the report is silent on the dangers of huge delays in payment for the work of ngos, even as it stresses the importance of the 'sustainability' of aid.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
the budget of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators is certainly less austere than others because this agency has just been created.
i voted in favour of this report which accepts to grant the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) for the financial year 2012, the committee on budgetary control calls on the european parliament to grant the director of the agency discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the financial year 2012. noting that the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular, we approve the closure of the agency's accounts.
i voted in favour of the report by my colleague petri sarvamaa on the 2012 discharge of the european environment agency.
- taking into account that the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 and that the transactions underlying the agency's annual accounts are, in all material respects, legitimate and regular, the european parliament approves today the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012.
in writing.
as the budget of the european environment agency is only one component of the european budget for 2012, which i opposed, i am voting against the discharge for that budget.
- the budget for the iter programme and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2012 was ratified by the house with a favourable vote.
i voted in favour of the weidenholzer report which focuses on consumer protection in public services and targets in particular four areas: energy, postal services, telecommunications and public transport.
in the energy sector, it stresses the need for an open, transparent and integrated energy market, improved procedures for changing suppliers and better information for consumers on prices and contractual changes.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report on consumer protection in public services, as it aims to provide the european commission with ideas and action in four areas in particular: energy, postal services, telecommunications and public transport.
the emphasis is on the need for an open, transparent and integrated energy market, on strengthening consumer rights (facilitating supplier switching, more information on prices and contract changes) and on the importance of establishing a digital single market.
the report does indeed note the successive liberalizations in the fields of energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services.
the directive could have been a real leap forward in the ecological conversion of the fleet.
i particularly welcome the objectives of improving energy efficiency and increasing the reliability and punctuality of rail services.
despite its undeniable advantages in terms of safety, environmental protection and mass transport, the share of rail transport in europe is stagnating or even declining.
but without daring to speak of a possible solidarity protectionism which would put an end to social and ecological dumping.
the european parliament recalls that the assistance provided by the egf should only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment.
but without calling into question free trade or proposing solidarity protectionism which would put an end to social and ecological dumping.
the european parliament recalls that the assistance provided by the egf should only co-finance active labour market measures leading to long-term sustainable employment.
this is because it has the dual objective of reducing our dependence on oil and of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector in order to decarbonise the european union.
everyone is aware that electricity, hydrogen and gas are alternative energy sources that provide a credible answer to reducing our dependence on oil, pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
this regulation therefore commits member states to deploy public charging stations for the different types of fuel by 2020, 2025 and 2030 and to establish common standards in order to create a continuous sustainable transport network across europe.
it emphasises the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, in particular those of carbon dioxide (co2), by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels and by 20% by 2020. i voted against amendment no 70, which does not correspond to my vision of combined transport.
the effort to reduce energy consumption in road transport by new aerodynamic measures for heavy-duty vehicles is noteworthy.
a more detailed impact study is needed to assess their impact not only on the environment but also on road safety.
the proposal aims to limit pollution from buses and lorries.
but these measures will remain a long shot until real ecological planning will make it possible to reduce road transport to rail.
i am voting against, despite the progress made in the leichtfried report, while denouncing the commission's lack of ambition in reducing greenhouse gases and its approval of the ultra-long lorries.
i voted in favour of this report which revises directive 96/53/ec on the maximum weights and dimensions of road transport vehicles, in order to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, adapt legislation to technological change and new market needs, facilitate intermodal transport and improve road safety.
in europe, we are doing everything we can to strike a balance between environmental protection and economic competitiveness.
citizens must be informed in advance of the impact of mega trucks on road safety, the environment and the state of our road infrastructure.
the report proposes to open up new possibilities for financing vocational training, qualification and retraining of boatmen and crews, as well as modernising the fleet 'for environmental purposes' or to improve safety, health and working conditions on board.
support for innovation by smes is necessary, but the liberal solutions advocated are wrong and disconnected from the general interest objectives of ecological bifurcation of production.
the overall objective of the empir programme is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy.
it seems to me legitimate that these companies should publish in their management report a statement which also includes information on environmental matters, personnel management and the fight against corruption.
air transport accounts for about 7[nbsp]% of all emissions produced by the transport sector and about 2[nbsp]% of total co2 emissions worldwide.
the projected growth in traffic will lead to a significant increase in emissions if no action is taken.
the environmental impact of air transport needs to be reduced drastically, but this will not be achieved by commodifying pollution control.
the role of the public authorities and the european union in the face of the environmental crisis should be to stimulate investment in innovation and the bifurcation of the productive model.
to make up for their lack of ambition in environmental matters (the eu's financial contribution is limited to eur 950 million), the commission and parliament propose to make systematic use of public-private partnerships.
liberal blindness and the influence of industrial lobbies have defeated the ecological ambitions of the european union.
i am voting against this text and in favour of ecological planning, which is the opposite of these old liberal recipes.
to ensure the union's energy security, the union must choose a coherent and comprehensive energy mix.
hydrogen is part of the clean energy of the future.
its complementarity with electricity should give it a more prominent place in the community's energy policy.
the fuel cells and hydrogen 2 joint undertaking is part of the energy 2020 strategy for competitive, sustainable and secure energy and clean energy and transport: europe's strategy for alternative fuels.
the increase is necessary for the recovery of the economy, employment, regional development, agriculture and environmental protection.
the report also calls for the adoption of a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and calls for the establishment of a european environmental management system.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
- madam president, we are here to discuss an initiative that aims to help solve a serious and often highly visible environmental problem: the over-consumption and littering of plastic carrier bags.
plastic carrier bags easily escape waste management streams and accumulate in our environment, especially in the form of marine litter.
for example, plastic bags accounted for 73% of the plastic waste collected by travellers along the tuscany coast.
once discarded, they can last for hundreds of years, often as harmful microscopic particles that are damaging to the environment worldwide, and especially the marine environment.
this is why environment ministers called on the commission to make proposals and it is why in november last year the commission tabled a simple and straightforward proposal to amend the european union’s packaging and packaging waste directive.
thanks also to the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
all lightweight bags contribute to littering and can end up in the marine environment.
this would also be in line with the waste hierarchy principle and the prevention of waste in the first place.
these issues, as well as the biodegradability of plastics, which are of course important, should not be addressed in relation to a single product – the plastic bag – but in a broader context, including as a follow-up to our green paper on plastic waste.
it's a scourge to the environment, it's a waste and it's unfortunate in our society.
we must distinguish between reusable plastic bags and those that are not, which are real waste.
madam president, commissioner, in our debates we often talk about the deviations of our system: the deviations linked to economic liberalism, the deviations linked to austerity - again in economic matters - and the ecological deviations.
but we now know that their ecological consequences are disastrous.
that is why i welcome the european commission's text very much, especially since it has been greatly improved by the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to which i belong.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the link between foreign and energy policy is enriching the common foreign and security policy.
and for europe to remain the ultimate guarantor of its security, we need to develop more european policies in key areas such as energy, immigration and defence.
our fight in particular for sustainable growth and against unemployment must and will continue.
the use of such sustainable and safe instruments not only contributes to the competitiveness of european agriculture but can also encourage third countries to align their legislation with it.
the globalisation of trade and climate change are facilitating the introduction and spread within the union of new organisms harmful to particularly dangerous plants.
the aim of the text is to establish a strong, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework to protect plant health.
the ultimate aim is always to increase the free movement of goods, but for once we make sure that they meet safety or environmental standards.
but to be effective, it should be accompanied by a drastic fight against the measures taken by some eu member states which offer flags of convenience (such as malta) or protection measures against unfair competition which endangers maritime safety and the marine environment.
it aims to simplify the regulatory environment by ensuring the harmonised application and implementation of the international maritime organisation (imo) requirements throughout the union.
all equipment for the production and storage of vapours or gases at a pressure higher than atmospheric pressure.
this text ensures adequate funding for the activities of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in the field of combating pollution at sea.
i therefore think it is important that it should be able to benefit from an adequate financial envelope to carry out its actions in favour of environmental protection.
it gives the agency three new tasks, two to extend its action to pollution from oil and gas installations and one to intervene in the maritime space of non-eu states.
i voted in favour of this report which will provide financial security, over a multiannual period, for the financing of the tasks assigned to the european maritime safety agency (emsa) in the field of combating marine pollution.
this new envelope is intended to enable the european maritime safety agency (emsa) to maintain its network of 17 pollution control vessels spread over most european maritime areas, thus strengthening the capacity of states affected by marine pollution to intervene.
the agency also provides satellite monitoring and detection of oil pollution.
this paper sets out how the european union can help create an environment favourable to job creation by enterprises, companies and start-ups.
in view of this, europe must create a favourable environment for smes, which are the main creators of jobs.
the report suggests ways to build a business-friendly environment for growth and employment.
trade must not undermine the preservation of biodiversity and that is why i voted in favour of this text, which is simply a legal update following the adoption of the lisbon treaty.
the agreement also aims to promote a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the seychelles' fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
the text also establishes a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zone.
such an agreement would complete the series of partnerships registered by the union in the pacific to promote sustainable fisheries.
the general objective of this decision is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and madagascar in order to consolidate the partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the malagasy fishing zone, in the interests of both parties.
human rights, the fight against climate change and terrorism are at the heart of the agreement.
this protocol opens the way to cooperation with georgia in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science.
the european parliament welcomes the conclusion of the protocol, which will pave the way for georgia's gradual accession to or increased participation in certain union programmes in the fields of culture, education, the environment, technology and science, and will intensify people-to-people contacts and cooperation between the parties.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionising radiation.
the aim is to increase competitiveness and to offset the additional production costs resulting from remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped export activity.
since documents can then be prepared, signed and distributed electronically, the european parliament also takes a responsible attitude towards the environment and paper economy.
it also involves a choice that has an environmental impact.
this text provides an adequate response to noise pollution at airports, while respecting the competences of national or local authorities.
for example, the consideration of working conditions at airports, the health and safety of local residents, greenhouse gas emissions and direct and indirect effects on employment are now excluded from the elements to be considered as a matter of priority in the 'cost-effectiveness report of the envisaged noise operating restrictions'.
i do not consider that health, safety, employment and the environment are secondary but rather priority issues.
i supported this regulation which sets out provisions for the uniform introduction of noise-related operating restrictions, airport by airport, in order to improve the noise environment and to limit or reduce the number of people suffering from the harmful effects of noise, in accordance with the 'balanced approach'.
this text will facilitate the achievement of specific environmental noise mitigation objectives as set out in european, national and local legislation and assess their interdependence with other environmental objectives at airport level.
they make it possible to enhance european heritage and this new 2020-2033 programming attaches particular importance to inclusion in a sustainable and social urban development project, including the greatest number and in particular civil society.
i voted in favour of this text which provides for a 50% and then 80% reduction in the overconsumption of plastic bags in member states using more plastic bags per capita than the eu average, which will trigger a real momentum across the eu to reduce the pollution caused by these bags.
pollution caused by plastic bags thrown into the environment is a real scourge that must be tackled at all levels to protect fauna and flora.
under the grenelle programme, france has taken strong measures to successfully reduce the consumption of plastic bags and the related pollution.
reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic handbags is a crucial environmental issue.
it is a deadly danger to birds and sea animals and a scourge to the environment.
the implementation of pilot projects at european level has had a rapid and effective effect, showing that a voluntary environmental management policy at community level can provide a serious and practical response.
- plastic waste is a major environmental concern, particularly in view of its harmful impact on water and aquatic ecosystems.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this ambitious text which aims at urgently strengthening measures to reduce the impact of plastic bags on the environment.
against waste and environmental uncivility, the european parliament has sent a strong message by enabling a significant and rapid reduction in single-use plastic bags in the european union.
in view of the harmful impact of this waste on the environment, and like the majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution so that it is strengthened significantly.
in the face of the scourge of plastic pollution, the adoption of measures at european level to reduce its impact is to be welcomed.
the report does not address unnecessary packaging, which is the main source of plastic waste.
the eu's new rules on packaging for fruit, vegetables and confectionery will be replaced by recycled, biodegradable or compostable paper bags by 2019. this is not only an achievable goal, but also a first step in the evaluation of waste management policy in the european union, which is due to be published in may.
while blue growth is our future, we must protect marine environments to enable their sustainable development.
this problem is one example of the many types of pollution that affect the oceans and of which we are all too little aware.
the dispute settlement system is deeply unfair and serves only the interests of multinational corporations in their fight to break social and environmental norms.
it is not protectionist to want to guarantee that our companies operate in an international environment conducive to fair trade.
but a first step has been taken to ensure that european businesses operate in an environment conducive to their expansion.
products entering the european union at a price much lower than the market price, had not been revised since 1995. i have therefore supported the principle of reform and actively defended the principle of a comprehensive defence against dumping: not only commercial dumping but also social and environmental dumping.
i am absolutely opposed to this privatisation of public investment to the detriment of the long-term ecological and social interest.
shipping is a significant contributor to co2 emissions from the transport sector.
it is therefore appropriate to provide for a method of accounting for these emissions and, in a second step, to decide in the future on measures to reduce these excessive emissions.
i voted in favour of this text, which aims to monitor, report and verify co2 emissions from shipping, as part of a gradual approach to reduce these emissions.
the text is thus fully in line with the commitments made by the european union to combat climate change.
international shipping is the only mode of transport not yet covered by the european union's greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments.
this text establishes a necessary system for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions.
we are far from the necessary ecological planning of transport.
before any legislative initiative to reduce co2 emissions from shipping is considered, this regulation aims to put in place a reliable monitoring, reporting and verification (mrv) system.
the objectives are therefore to monitor, report and verify co2 emissions from ships as part of a gradual approach to reduce these emissions.
invasive alien species (ias) are initially transported by human action outside their natural range, beyond ecological barriers, and then survive, reproduce, spread and cause serious ecological, social and economic consequences.
these weee are one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and species extinction.
i voted in favour of this text, which establishes a framework for action to prevent, minimise and mitigate the negative impacts of invasive alien species on biodiversity and ecosystem services, in particular through an early warning system.
this text represents a further step towards preventing, reducing and mitigating the negative impacts of invasive alien species on biodiversity and ecosystem services.
these invasive alien species (animals, plants, fungi, micro-organisms) are one of the main causes of biodiversity loss and the extinction of some species.
the creation of a comprehensive legal framework to combat these species and to preserve biodiversity therefore appears to be an appropriate response to this situation.
the aim of this regulation is to curb the growth of species which are not naturally present in the ecosystems of the european territory but which, once they are imported, cause serious damage to local biodiversity.
in addition to the environmental damage, the economic losses are estimated at over 12 billion euros per year in the european union.
this paper highlights the problem of invasive alien species and the danger they pose to our ecosystem.
i voted in favour of this regulation, which aims to prevent, reduce and mitigate the negative impacts of invasive alien species (ias) on biodiversity and ecosystem services.
invasive alien species (ias) are a major cause of biodiversity loss and extinction of some species.
climate change is one of the greatest threats facing the european union and the world today.
in the face of this situation, the european union and a number of its partners have committed themselves to taking measures to reduce co2 emissions through the kyoto protocol.
i voted in favour of this report because it allows the kyoto protocol to be properly implemented in the years ahead and thus to reduce the consequences of man-made climate change.
beyond that, it is essential that an international agreement binding on all global actors is found in paris at the end of 2015 in order to reduce co2 emissions even more effectively.
at the doha conference in 2012, a new commitment period for the kyoto protocol was introduced, from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2020. legally binding greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments were then established for this period.
the eu would need to reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2020 while still meeting the 20% target.
the implementation of these targets in europe also relies on the carbon market, which is totally ineffective in reducing emissions in a sustainable and rapid manner, and thus in combating global warming.
this european implementation is therefore totally inadequate in the face of the increased ecological emergency.
i deplore this european inertia and i call for ecological planning, the only effective and lasting response to global warming.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, as a member of the negotiating team, i would like to warmly congratulate the rapporteur rosa[nbsp ]estaràs ferragut for the climate she chaired in this negotiation and for the unwavering support for the outermost regions.
it is the instrument for sustainable fishing in a competitive sector.
the report also refers to the training of workers only through the logic of 'skills' and largely ignores the issue of the broad and sustainable qualification of workers.
it stressed the need for special attention to be paid to combating youth unemployment, promoting sustainable employment and combating social dumping.
all these measures are real advances for our territories, which are on the front line of climate change, and are increasingly affected by cyclones, droughts or threatened, as in the caribbean, by earthquakes.
the european parliament can welcome the adoption of such a text which, by creating a favourable investment environment, will help to revive growth and employment in europe.
the fund is designed to support the financing of the economy, in particular smes, and is entirely geared to competitiveness objectives and disconnected from the social needs of europeans and the ecological imperatives of the production bifurcation.
the objective is to contribute to meeting tunisia's residual external financing needs in 2014 and 2015, to support fiscal consolidation and external stabilisation efforts under the imf programme, while enhancing governance and economic transparency, and to improve the conditions for sustainable growth.
i voted in favour of this text, taking account of the environmental, economic and social aspects.
this text establishes the european maritime and fisheries fund for the period 2014-2020. the fund then makes it possible to implement a european sustainable and competitive fisheries policy in an appropriate way.
this text is too ambiguous and subject to various interpretations to know whether it will really allow the principle of sustainability of resources to be implemented, a victory we had obtained in the very philosophy of the cfp reform.
it helped to define the strategic priorities of the emff: sustainable fisheries, a more competitive fisheries sector and an ambitious social dimension.
first, the development of environmentally sustainable fishing: investments will be made in more selective fishing gear and priority will be given to data collection and the implementation of resource conservation measures.
they would have improved economic efficiency, safety, selectivity and reduced pollution, and i will continue to fight for a modern vision of fisheries.
long-term financing is essential to enable the european economy to move towards sustainable, smart and inclusive growth.
attempts to shift these investments towards social and environmental sustainability have not been taken into account.
this should contribute to the achievement of the existing objectives of the european union, namely: ensuring the union's energy supply, promoting maritime transport, encouraging sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, preserving and protecting the environment and ensuring that coastal and marine areas are resilient to climate change.
the aim of this text is not only to develop the maritime economy in a sustainable way but also to guarantee legal certainty for smes in this sector.
it's a call for the ecological destruction of marine ecosystems.
i voted in favour of this text which seeks to improve the management of the european maritime area in order to strengthen the sustainable development of the maritime sector in europe.
by 2021, each member state will have to draw up a maritime plan based on the protection of the ecosystem and the coexistence of different maritime activities.
these plans will have to take into account the promotion of maritime transport, energy supply, environmental protection, sustainable fisheries and also sustainable tourism.
waste shipments pose a very big environmental and ethical problem when it comes to hidden shipments of hazardous or polluting materials to countries with low labour costs.
the total tonnage of illicit waste transfers within and outside the eu is estimated at 2.8 million tonnes per year.
the purpose of this text is to strengthen the powers of the control and inspection bodies in the field of waste shipment.
this is a necessary measure for the protection of the environment.
- the european parliament has today given a strong signal by adopting an ambitious text to combat illegal waste shipments.
i voted in favour of this new regulation because it aims to strengthen the provisions on controls on shipments of waste within the eu and to third countries.
too many member states have neglected controls on shipments of waste on their territory, thus facilitating the passage of illicit waste exporters who chose to move their waste through member states where controls were weak.
it is high time that inspection authorities were given more powers, including the ability to require evidence from exporters suspected of illegal waste shipments.
in 2010, according to eurostat, the eu member states generated 101 mt of hazardous waste out of a total of 927 mt of waste.
the waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries.
exports of non-hazardous waste to non-oecd countries for recovery are permitted provided that the waste facility is operated in accordance with environmental and human health protection standards.
these transfers contribute to pollution in emerging countries, while at the same time relieving the countries of origin of any policy of waste reduction, recycling or recovery.
the report aims to tighten controls on waste markets, through better coordination between member states and an obligation to physically inspect installations.
i am in favour of adopting measures to strengthen the fight against illegal shipments of waste.
- in 2010, the member states of the european union produced more than 100 million tonnes of hazardous waste.
the legislation in force prohibits shipments of this type of waste to non-oecd countries.
the commission is concerned about the proportion of hazardous waste which is being illegally transferred to third countries for cheaper treatment, resulting in the shameful shipment of our hazardous waste, poor quality treatment and even serious environmental pollution.
cooperation between member states in the fight against illicit shipments of waste will also be promoted by the establishment of a platform for the exchange of information.
between 2000 and 2009, the production of hazardous waste in the eu increased by almost 30%.
the eu waste shipment regulation prohibits the export of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries except for recovery.
the fraud is the result of the very high cost of treating this type of waste, as well as the low penalties for environmental crime.
in energy matters, the eu expresses its deep concern about fukushima but paradoxically proposes to japan cooperation in the international experimental thermonuclear reactor (iter) project.
our message is threefold: - we condemn recent russian actions such as the annexation of crimea and the support for violent separatists and armed militias in eastern ukraine, and call them serious violations of existing international law; - we call on the member states and other european institutions to continue their efforts to cooperate and support ukraine so that it can complete its structural reforms and establish a democratic regime that respects minorities; - we encourage the european union and its member states to take more radical sanctions against russia, especially in the energy sector, and call for a genuine embargo on eu-sourced weapons and dual-use technologies.
the agreement also provides for the establishment of a mechanism for settling investor-state disputes, which serves only the interests of multinational firms in their fight to break social and environmental standards.
however, this agreement, which respects the wto's special and differential treatment rules, should also contain binding provisions on human rights, labour and the environment.
these challenges are first and foremost to propose a new model of economic development for the european union which is not based only on austerity, on the troika, on precarious jobs, but on our first challenge, that of the ecological transition.
the european union needs massive public and private investment to do this, and the rules that apply today at eu level do not allow for the reorientation that we need to finance the solutions that will enable us to meet the energy, climate, social and employment challenges that lie ahead of us.
italy today will have to preside over the adoption of a climate-energy package and for the time being italy is not breaking with the past at all, as it does not advocate a binding target for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we shall fight it with all the more energy as we measure the progress we are making in our nations every day.
these investments will be in broadband, energy and transport infrastructure projects, leading to a reindustrialisation of europe.
these are societal choices about the environment, about health, about social law, about public services, about intellectual property, about agriculture, about food, and today these societal choices are negotiated in total opacity on the basis of their commodification alone.
it is clear that what europe needs today is to define its project, to strengthen its project with an industrial policy, with a specificity of sustainability, and what this negotiation offers us is to dilute the european project in a large transatlantic market.
forgive me, commissioner, but the environment group today considers that the way in which the european parliament and the governments are informed of the follow-up of the negotiations - either through the reading rooms - is contrary to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is contrary to article 218 (10) of that treaty.
and that is why the environmental group supports the european citizens' initiative which is being launched today by dozens of organisations to ask you, the european commission, to put an end to these negotiations and to refuse to adopt the treaty with canada.
as soon as such important issues as public services, data protection, health and environmental protection are discussed, i believe that citizens - and not just yannick jadot, mep - should be informed, and when i look at the communication papers provided by the european commission on the state of negotiations, i find a line per subject.
and whatever you say about isds, we have to make sure that we protect our investors and that our entire public policy in the social, environmental and health fields cannot be called into question by foreign multinationals.
it is about job security, about what we will eat tomorrow, about our health, about access to education and culture, about biodiversity, about the ways in which we produce.
on the other hand, the risks, and this has been emphasized on all benches in this house, the risks are very important: risks to labour law, risks to social standards, risks to environmental standards, risks to health standards and frankly, colleagues, when i hear you - and i am new to this house - i think that if you add up all these risks, all these threats and you want to ask yourself: 'is it worth it?'
any agreement must promote the highest standards of the environment, public health, food safety, social rights and fundamental rights; it must also safeguard our public services and cultural diversity; and finally, exclude - but you have been told this many times - the mechanism for settling disputes between investors and states.
a european plan for the conversion of all precarious jobs into stable jobs should be considered; the establishment of a european trainee status with new rights and employment opportunities; action towards large enterprises to commit to quantified targets for sustainable youth employment creation but beyond that, i think we need a major european investment plan for the future for public services and the ecological transition.
in addition, joining the euro area will help lithuania to meet the challenge of energy independence.
we must make our budget, its expenditure and its revenue, a political instrument for sustainable growth, cohesion and social justice.
in view of the worrying instability in ukraine and its climate of violence, i supported this resolution calling for a de-escalation of the conflict.
finally, i hope that the european union will be open to dialogue with russia and that it will openly address the question of energy security.
europe needs a new environment for job creation.
it also encourages them to take preventive action against early school leaving, to encourage technical education, apprenticeships and entrepreneurship, to invest in the digital, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors of the future and to promote crossborder employment.
the resolution also deals with the economic environment of young people, calling for the necessary stimulation of growth, the reindustrialisation of our territories and a determined fight against inequalities.
on the contrary, their economic and food sovereignty must be respected, and a major plan to help finance sustainable investment, including social and environmental clauses and jointly mobilising cheap credit for co-development actions, should be discussed and drawn up.
in morocco, civil society is fighting because it fears that exports of european products are being promoted at the expense of moroccans' economic, social and environmental rights.
the eu's ultra-liberal drift continues on both sides of the mediterranean while other policies are possible, promoting cooperation, sustainable development and the free movement of workers".
however, the new law of july 2014 in bolivia allows children aged 10 and above to work in a safe environment.
when russia turns to china and washington has alienated us from a natural strategic and energy partner, if this policy of tension and sanctions has not led to the madness of war before, i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, will you then finally ask yourselves what is in the real interest of the peoples of europe?
the agreement will bring ukraine closer to the eu through new channels of political dialogue and a framework for cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and education.
its key components include a focus on governance and sectoral cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and environmental protection, industrial cooperation, social development and social protection.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to highlight the contradictions in the european union's policy a few days before the new york climate summit.
on the one hand, we are imposing on our economies repressive and costly environmental policies in the name of global warming, and on the other hand, we are promoting a global trade that is completely disastrous for our jobs and whose carbon footprint, to use your reasoning, is catastrophic.
in fact, to take an example, when you import a toaster made in china, you not only have to transfer the raw materials to china, process them in factories that are often three times less energy efficient than ours, but also re-export the finished product to europe.
the question is, how many trees do we need to plant to offset the carbon footprint of manufacturing and importing this toaster?
i therefore ask myself the following question: is europe, by pursuing this liberal policy, not in fact seeking to relocate pollution along with jobs?
when you go to the new york summit to demand that developing countries reduce their carbon emissions, remember that these countries produce pollution to produce the cheap goods we import.
europe can show its real priorities at the new york climate summit.
we can either save the climate and our jobs, or we can pursue unbridled and destructive free trade.
the climate objective and free trade are totally incompatible.
we therefore call for the development of short circuits and local production, because only this mode of production and distribution will make it possible to reduce considerably the energy and carbon balance of goods transport and, above all, to stop the job loss that you have triggered and that europe is currently experiencing.
madam president, madam commissioner, i join in the congratulations, and it would be absolutely dramatic, pitiful, if this house were to approve the transformation of the climate commissioner into an oil and conflict of interest commissioner.
we see it all the time in climate issues, the future is catching up with us: the effects that were predicted in 10, 20 or 30 years are happening.
unfortunately, when it comes to energy, the past is paralyzing us.
it is clear that there is a tendency for the european union today to do less in terms of energy transition, to listen to the sirens of an energy counter-revolution.
we know, as the stern report says, that acting in the energy transition is also getting out of the crisis.
we cannot be satisfied today with the commission's proposals on energy efficiency, renewable energy in the climate-energy package.
40% energy efficiency by 2030, as recommended by the envi and itre committees, and two thirds less russian gas imports by 2030. we cannot be satisfied with the weakness of the renewable energy target.
so, and i am addressing the italian presidency and the european commission, we must have a big climate-energy package, because europe will lead the climate negotiations if it is exemplary.
madam president, commissioner, if we take the question of climate change seriously - as you do and as we do - what you have said about the two-degree target is absolutely obvious.
then there is the question of the inequalities that may be brought about by the fight against climate change and climate change.
madam president, commissioner hedegaard, we were together in copenhagen in december 2009 to witness, unfortunately, this fiasco, for those of us who are lovers of the earth - you yourself, all of us - preventing us from effectively fighting against global warming and climate change.
mr lamberts, i naturally agree with what you said about the green economy and sustainable development.
so i think that without monetary creation, without quantitative easing at least 300-400 billion in sustainable development, it will not be possible.
the european social fund should be really mobilised and the 300 billion announced by mr juncker should be invested where there are jobs, particularly in the energy transition.
on the other hand, the cost of the 2 expert meetings (70000€), 2 seminars (120000€) or the website (20000€) is part of the waste of public money.
the closure of european timber factories is a huge waste.
these steps are very important, not least in the context of azerbaijan’s role in ensuring europe’s energy security.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr mbonimpa, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the situation in burundi.
a series of elections are due in 2015, and the climate is deleterious.
in addition, given the current particularly complicated situation, the eu needs to reduce its dependence on russia in various fields (energy, technology, etc.).
whereas, in view of the current situation, it is now necessary for us to engage in a rapid action plan, whether for the deployment of medical teams, the establishment of treatment centres, the establishment of a sustainable risk management policy, vaccine research or information and awareness raising among the population.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the return to sustainable security and political stability will inevitably require the establishment of an inclusive national dialogue between the libyan parties and the restoration of credibility to the political process.
it is essential that the two sides continue to dialogue to ensure that this ceasefire is sustainable and to achieve a lasting resolution of the conflict.
the european union must contribute to a comprehensive and sustainable long-term solution to the crisis, strengthening the security, well-being and prosperity of both palestinians and israelis.
i remain convinced that in such catastrophic situations europe has its place, both in responding to the emergency and in the environmental challenges that need to be addressed.
that is why, mr katainen, we are counting on the next commission to have a real mobilization, a declination on the ground so that these 300 billion will allow europe to reorient itself on the path of the ecological and digital transition.
- i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do not sufficiently compensate for the difficulties that its policy has generated.
- i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated.
- i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated.
instead of randomly distributing a few pence to employees, it would be better to have ambitious industrial policies that allow the revival of activity and ecological planning.
- i regret this perverse system by which the european union, on the one hand, destroys the economic environment and, on the other, pays out a few subsidies which do little to compensate for the difficulties its policy has generated.
in ten years you have succeeded in making people hate the very idea of europe, by your efforts to privatize the large public sectors, to deregulate railways, energy and the postal service, and to make the management of the single currency almost exclusively a matter of speculation rather than giving priority to work and productive and ecological investment.
you have refused to include any criteria of social progress and ecological progress in the major european decisions.
we must now imagine a policy of social recovery, replacing the relentless pursuit of lower labour costs with a hunt for capital waste and attacks on the environment.
the european central bank's rigidity should be countered by what we have stopped defending here: a new fund for social, human and ecological development and a large cooperative investment plan, without which there will be no future for our european project.
it will, inter alia, decide on the objectives to be set for the new climate and energy action framework, and address the key issues of strengthening energy security, europe and interconnection needs.
let us be clear: our aim is not to wage an ideological war against climate change, which would leave the mangled bodies of our companies and their employees on the battlefield.
it is really - and i say this emphatically - that europe is committed to combating climate change while preserving its competitiveness and ensuring its security of supply.
the situation in ukraine is a good reminder of the importance of ensuring the security of our energy sources.
europe faces major challenges: high energy prices - in some sectors up to 40% of production costs - national policies are not sufficiently coherent and the internal energy market is still fragmented.
to meet these needs, we must therefore diversify our sources of supply: renewable energy must be supported until it is technologically mature.
we also need to strengthen energy infrastructure.
interconnection between member states will be the key to building a genuine common european energy policy, an energy union, so dear to the new president jean-claude juncker, who has made it one of his priorities.
i take the example of the list of sectors exposed to carbon leakage: it should not have led to hesitation and our group, the epp, has shown its unity on this essential subject.
today, many european industrial sectors are world champions in energy efficiency and emission reduction.
in contrast, carbon capture and storage technologies have not really taken off.
it is the only way to make the development of renewable energy credible.
this will enable them to use ever more innovative and less polluting technologies to meet the challenges of sustainable development.
while the eu is currently responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions - a share that will decrease in the coming years - it cannot take the decisions on its own.
europe must not be the great naïve of the climate negotiations.
mr president, in 2008 the european institutions adopted the first climate-energy package and europe was in fact taking a leading role in energy, climate and industrial matters.
with a 30% efficiency target, this is an ambition reduced by a third between the decade of 2010 and the decade of 2020. with a target of 27% renewable energy, that's a reduced ambition by half.
so how can this new commission see that with such a package we are going to be the world leaders in climate and energy?
the economic reality is that two thirds of new electricity capacity installed in europe is renewable energy sources.
there is economic realism, there is climate realism.
let us have the ambition to be pragmatic, to save the climate, to save european industry and to create jobs!
my question is this: do you not think that today, at the dawn of all european projects, russia also represents our energy security?
it seems to us that your neighbour, your left hand or your right hand, obviously depending on the day, mr frans timmermans, will also have to be directly and totally involved in order for this 300 billion plan to be a plan in the service of a sustainable development strategy.
you have wanted to promote the energy transition in this plan, and we thank you for that.
you appointed miguel arias cañete to the climate and energy portfolio, and this man has very close ties to two oil companies, which he founded and which his family continues to control.
by accepting the appointment of mr miguel arias cañete, whose family has very important direct interests in the oil sector, as commissioner for climate and energy, this parliament is dishonoring the very foundation of democracy and the greatness of this house: the defence of the general european interest.
the commissioner for financial services, john hill, is british (and will therefore be in charge of the city...); the european union's energy commissioner, miguel canete, is a shareholder in two oil companies, and the finnish employment commissioner, katainen, now wants a €300 billion stimulus package, even though he was previously the champion of austerity and wanted to mortgage the parthenon in exchange for financial aid to greece.
if the union is to regain their trust, it will have to give itself the means to be a real power: an economic, commercial, energy, social, cultural and political power.
in the agricultural sector, this will lead to even more productivism at the expense of product quality, the environment and consumer health.
now i hope that the projects and policies outlined by president juncker will not remain a dead letter and will be implemented by the commissioners: investments, administrative simplification, ambitious policies for industry and energy, deficit reduction, a trade policy focused on the growth of our businesses.
the economic and even ecological arguments appear to be greatly exaggerated.
i fought, like many of my colleagues, during the last mandate for the sustainability of this fund.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the report recognises an increase of 10 million people living in poverty between 2010 and 2012, but offers its own solutions to boost growth: structural reform including health systems and reducing the retirement age, a common, modern and inclusive immigration policy, stimulating labour mobility and free movement, restoring a favourable environment for business... in short, a descent into hell with ever more federalism and ultra-liberalism, which is why i voted against.
i regret that the energy transition issues, which are important for a return to sustainable growth, have not been included, but this text provides a basis on which the european parliament can base its support for the reorientation of economic and budgetary policies.
the union's competitiveness needs to be strengthened in key areas such as the services sector, the energy sector, the transport sector and the digital single market.
in the light of current international developments, there is an increased urgency to establish a sound common energy policy and to strengthen coordination in the economic and monetary union.
finally, i denounce the political positions of a right-wing party which has still not realised the importance of the energy transition and the potential for growth and job creation that it would represent in this context of crisis and mass unemployment.
tomorrow there will be more of them, there will be climate refugees!
france has no economic or political interest in maintaining a nato-desired cold war climate.
the union has a moral duty to this partner, which is under immense pressure from russia in the economic, military and energy fields.
the inland waterway sector (mainly river transport) has an important future in achieving our environmental objectives and reindustrialising europe.
in the face of this overwhelming observation, i would be even more vigilant about the use of european public funds, the waste of which is an affront to the thousands of taxpayers subject to austerity and ultra-liberal policies.
i therefore welcome this agreement, which will enable the country to modernise its economy, to ensure that our european companies are investing in moldova and to improve the political environment.
the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part, is a strong sign of recognition of the reform efforts and ambitions of the moldovan authorities.
moldova, which, it should be recalled, does not apply the same standards, particularly environmental standards.
rejecting the economic agreement, it would be absurd for me to endorse this agreement in the specific field of atomic energy.
the aim is to achieve a fair distribution of this exploitation and to ensure that the development of a mediterranean gas hub benefits the whole euro-mediterranean area and is in line with the eu's energy security strategy.
following the appointment of the new special adviser to the un secretary-general for cyprus, negotiations to find a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem must now resume in a calm atmosphere and it is up to turkey to re-establish a climate of confidence.
in a way, this issue has cannibalized the council's energy and intelligence.
social objectives must cease to be wishful thinking and the relic of economic policies; instead, economic efficiency results from choices of social and ecological efficiency of human well-being.
the reorientation of the 2020 strategy must be clear in order to consider education, social protection, public employment services as priority investments, climate protection and the ecological transition of productive systems as priority directions, which should no longer be taken into account in budgetary deficit calculations.
more fundamentally, we propose to include in the work programme of parliament, the commission and the council the draft of a new initiative which would be a european pact for human development, social and ecological progress by otherwise mobilising the european investment bank and the european central bank.
i think we need to invest in our young people to re-launch growth in a sustainable and inclusive way.
in this context, i would like to stress today the importance of creating an environment favourable to the creation and development of enterprises in europe.
in the face of mass unemployment and the effects of globalisation, the egf is once again proving to be an effective and sustainable tool for supporting the victims of the successive crises that have hit the countries of the european union.
the aid will be eur 918 000 for the redundant employees of the company, to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market in an efficient and sustainable way.
in the current security environment, this new arrangement, which has been negotiated for almost two years, will strengthen the protection of travellers who can now bring an administrative or judicial action before canadian courts.
the european union and the united nations want to cut in half the people who suffer from hunger and also multiply the challenges of scale on many problems such as human rights violations, unemployment, climate change, corruption, economic and financial crises, poverty and many others ... of course, this will only be at the stage of declaring good intentions.
on page 23 the explanatory memorandum states, for example, that 'the union has recognised that there can be no sustainable development without peace and security, and vice versa: without development and the eradication of poverty, there can be no sustainable peace'.
nevertheless, much remains to be done in the areas of human rights, poverty eradication, sustainable development, conflict prevention and resolution, to name a few.
i welcome the vote on this resolution to set out an ambitious and universal post-2015 agenda to go beyond the millennium development goals (mdgs) set out in the united nations framework in 2000. a number of quantified sub-goals are to achieve the following eight goals by 2015: reducing extreme poverty and hunger, ensuring primary education for all, promoting gender equality and women's empowerment, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv, malaria and other diseases, protecting the environment, and establishing a global partnership for development.
a new generation of mdgs should be promoted, giving greater prominence to environmental issues as factors for development, in view of the changing global challenges and the link between environmental protection, improved health, prosperity (green growth) and peace.
the european parliament is continuing its work towards the adoption of an ambitious development agenda for the period after 2015. the report sets out the objectives of the programme: eradication of poverty, human rights, health, education, combating global warming, and so on.
the priorities in point iii are: poverty eradication, reduction of inequalities and sustainable development, human rights-based approach, conflict prevention, post-conflict recovery, peacebuilding and the promotion of sustainable peace, climate change mitigation, environmental protection and disaster risk reduction, food security, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, combating land degradation, water and sanitation, health and education, the central role of women in global development after 2015, inclusive and sustainable growth, employment and decent job creation, etc.
i supported the vote on the report on european priorities for global development after the expiry of the millennium development goals in 2015. the compromise text contains very positive elements, such as the universality of the global development framework, the development of binding rules for multinationals, a european trade strategy to maintain high social and environmental standards, the fight against social and environmental dumping, a commitment to quality european aid, a specific objective for gender equality, and a goal for universal access to health.
this is why the un has been thinking about a new development framework for the post-2015 period, based on the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and a global agenda.
i therefore vote in favour of the report on the union and the global development framework in order to encourage the international community to persevere in the face of the challenges of the 21st century, including the eradication of poverty through education and the place of women in society as well as sustainable development and peacekeeping.
i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which calls on the international community to set an ambitious and universal post-2015 agenda with sustainable development goals involving countries from all over the world.
i supported this text because it is urgent to define sustainable and comprehensive solutions to combat inequalities, eradicate poverty and defend human rights in the world.
it is based on five objectives: employment, education, poverty reduction, combating climate change and research and development.
the aim is to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
this strategy, launched by the union in 2010, aims to boost the european economy through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
through this strategy, the european union has set itself five major objectives to be achieved by 2020 in the areas of employment, research, environment and energy, education, social inclusion and poverty reduction.
it deplored the fact that current policies remain 'focused exclusively on economic growth without taking into account the need for an inclusive, sustainable and rights-based approach' and called for 'a rebalancing of the strategy between financial and economic priorities and strong social priorities'.
the strategy was launched in 2010 and set out five priority objectives: employment, education, poverty reduction, combating climate change and research and development (r&d).
i want to assure you that we will look at these two issues – the immediate budget, forming the budget for europe, as well as the longer-term sustainability of our budget – equally seriously.
i think we do indeed have to keep an eye on making sure that we create a budgetary decision-making environment that unites us and does not divide us.
citizens need to know how much they're paying for each level of government: the european commission has already set up a european network of local authorities, which is to be used to develop and implement the european strategy for the environment.
the crisis we are going through and will continue to suffer as a result of the still fragile economic environment is dealing a severe blow to prevention and safety at work in companies, which are costly but essential.
so in lima we have to work on a result for the planet, not just for the european union, because the european union only accounts for 10% of co2 emissions.
this requires us to take a global approach to the climate problem.
it must affirm the interest of everyone in committing themselves, without delay, to reducing co2 emissions.
developing countries that fear that reducing emissions will hamper their growth have a vested interest in doing so, because they will be the first to suffer the consequences of climate change.
developed countries also have an interest in this because reducing co2 emissions can be done by innovating more and creating jobs.
mr president, the european union is making a worthwhile effort to combat climate change.
it now sets itself the target of reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 and 80% by 2050. the european union will no doubt try to persuade the world at the lima conference in december to respect the objective set by the durban agreement, namely the adoption in paris at the end of 2015 of a binding treaty to limit global warming to a maximum of two degrees by the end of the century.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate you, mr cañete, on your victory, the victory of europe, at the meeting in paris on 20 november last, bringing together the parties to the montreal protocol on substances that deplete the ozone layer.
this is a victory because it is your proposals, those of the european union, that have been validated to combat hydrofluorocarbons and hydrochlorocarbons, whose impact on the destruction of the ozone layer and, therefore, on climate change and warming is, it should be noted, 23 000 times greater than that of co2.
the second point, which was also raised at the berlin conference on 20 november, concerns the green climate fund: again, we need to know how the lima conference will define the terms of allocation of the fund.
secondly, the agreement between china and the united states should be welcomed as a joint decision to reduce their emissions.
however, as europeans, it seems to me that we cannot stop there and that, even if we go to lima, we must continue to mobilise here on the basis of the european parliament's positions in favour of a triple binding objective which would add to the objectives accepted by the european council those of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
finally, when we discuss the 300 billion investment plan, we must also make the issue of the ecological transition the guiding principle for the mobilisation of these new investment capacities in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, today people all over europe and the world have become aware of the reality of climate change.
some companies have adopted climate-friendly investment strategies.
cities, municipalities and regions have committed themselves to climate plans.
so we have a society that's moving forward and ready and a climate-friendly economy that's already in place.
the commission has the power of initiative to purge the carbon market, to end fossil fuel subsidies and to strengthen energy efficiency and renewable energy targets.
let's show that we'll live better in a society that fights climate change.
in line with my position in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted against the motion for a resolution which appears to be based on vague ideas and vague objectives, with some policies projected at too distant a time to be realistic.
because it will help to build a more coherent and integrated regulatory environment, i support the adoption of this text.
i voted against this text, which once again reveals the inconsistency of european policy: it imposes very strict environmental standards on our companies and at the same time refuses to protect them from competitors who are not subject to the same regulations.
more fundamentally, instead of encouraging an increased movement of goods and people, which generates ever more greenhouse gas emissions, the european union should consider the need to relocate the economy.
this motion for a resolution on the preparation of the un climate change conference in lima, which raises the natural question of sustainable development and the need to protect the natural environment, does not provide credible solutions to the environmental problem.
the environmental objectives, especially in terms of timing, are very vague, the financing of climate policies is poorly defined (green fund), and some parts do not fall under environmental policy at all but rather external demands such as in point 45 on 'approaches that respect equality of people'.
it is clear that the mere demand for numerical results will in no way solve the ecological requirements of the future, because it becomes necessary to question the entire world economic system based on productivism and the search for profitability at any cost, even if the causes for the planet are neglected.
the united nations framework convention on climate change - cop 20 - is being held in lima, peru from 1 to 12 december 2014. the european union needs to speak with one voice at this convention.
i would like to remind you, however, that it is important to remain pragmatic in our approach to climate change.
we must do a lot of work on the environment, but not at the expense of our economy.
we cannot set environmental objectives that are too restrictive for our companies and thus make them less competitive with the rest of the world.
the european environmental standards are already very high, and we must now ensure that they are working properly.
we must find the right balance between competitiveness and environmental standards in order to get out of the economic crisis we are currently experiencing.
as a major player in the fight against global warming, the european union must turn its example into leadership.
under the kyoto protocol, the union reduced its emissions by 19% between 1990 and 2012 while increasing its gross domestic product by more than 45%, demonstrating that environmental improvement and economic development are not contradictory.
- the european parliament recalls with this resolution our ambitious objectives in the fight against climate change.
the european union must speak with one voice in lima at the un climate change conference, to contribute to an international agreement at the paris conference in 2015. stakeholders at the conference need to agree on binding targets and financial means to keep temperature rise below 2°c.
i am particularly pleased that the resolution recognises the certain exposure and vulnerability of the agricultural and forestry sectors to climate change.
in particular, it calls on stakeholders at the conference to include in their national contributions a farmland component, consisting of appropriate common data to monitor, trace and quantifiably verify the achievement of several productivity, mitigation and climate resilience objectives.
concrete and rapid action is needed because, as things stand, our commitments are not likely to minimise the damage of climate change.
the lima conference is to set the conditions for a binding global agreement to be concluded in paris in 2015 to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
we also need to get a commitment from industrialized countries to developing countries, which contribute the least to emissions but suffer the most from them, to help them fight and adapt to climate change.
finally, we must at european level set up a genuine 'environmental belt' to reconcile stimulating growth with reducing greenhouse gases.
the eu budget should support green growth by promoting energy and raw material-efficient activities.
i voted in favour of this resolution because it was important that parliament had a voice on climate change because the lima conference is a stepping stone conference before the paris conference in 2015. however, we must not shoot ourselves in the foot by setting ourselves far too high targets without our partners having the same ones, we must be careful about the competitiveness of european companies.
the european union must be at the heart of the negotiations, it must have a strong message and it must push as hard as it can for a reduction in co2 emissions, but our representatives must not forget that this is a global problem that requires a global response and not just a european one: it is good to lead by example but we must make sure that we are followed.
in line with my position in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which appears to be based on vague ideas and vague objectives, with some policies projected too far in the future to be realistic.
i would like to recall the contradictions of the european union's climate policy.
on the one hand, the draft resolution considers that climate change represents an imminent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet.
on the other hand, europe is devoted to deregulation and liberalization of international trade, which have the mechanical effect of increasing energy consumption and the flow of goods.
in short, global trade is the biggest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions.
the lima conference is therefore doomed to failure in advance, since environmental policies, however binding, are being overridden by free trade policies.
like the majority of my colleagues, i voted in favour of the resolution on the 20th united nations climate conference (cop 20) to be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december 2014. given the seriousness of the threats posed by climate change, urgent action is needed.
the text proposes binding targets for 2030, namely, among other things, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared with 1990, to increase the share of renewable energies to 30% of the energy mix, and to achieve 40% energy savings.
the european parliament calls for increased funding to combat climate change, including by inviting member states to contribute to the green fund in order to raise $100 billion annually by 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
indeed, governments around the world must assume their collective responsibility, especially towards future generations, and take appropriate action to effectively combat climate change.
i am concerned that by setting binding 2030 targets for greenhouse gas emissions reductions of at least 40% compared to 1990 levels, 40% in energy efficiency, in line with research on the potential for cost-effective energy savings, and for at least 30% of total final energy consumption to be generated from renewable sources, we are embarking on a path that will be difficult to sustain and that will discredit us in the eyes of our partners.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the un climate change conference taking place in lima from 1 to 12 december 2014. the text underlines the need to take action in the fight against climate change by addressing the question of how to finance the fight against climate change and by indicating how different economic sectors can contribute to improving the situation.
the vote on the 2014 un climate change conference (cop 20 in lima) comes against a favourable political backdrop following the submission of the fifth report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change at the un secretary-general's heads of state summit in september, the european climate and energy agreement of 24 october on a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 compared to 1990 levels and the bilateral us-china climate agreement of 12 november.
in order to reach a comprehensive agreement at the paris conference in december 2015 to limit the rise in global average temperatures to 2°c, it is now up to all parties to the climate convention to demonstrate their credibility by making their official contributions known by the beginning of 2015 and setting out the precise terms of their commitment.
- the european parliament could have used this resolution to strengthen europe's role in promoting a binding climate agreement.
but, full of good intentions and incantations about the will to keep global warming within the 2 per cent limit by 2050, it offers no innovative measures.
worse still, it is the carbon market, which has proven itself inefficient time and time again, that is the cornerstone of its policy.
the fight against global warming is not a business or a competitive one.
as long as the european parliament and world leaders remain locked into this vision, no fight against global warming will be possible or effective.
the united nations climate change conference, to be held in lima in december, will clearly not solve the serious problems of greenhouse gas emissions.
the un intergovernmental panel on climate change estimates that global emissions have risen from 38 billion tonnes in 1990 to 49 billion tonnes in 2010. the ipcc also noted that these emissions should be reduced by more than 50% within a short time!
the kyoto protocol's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 5% for the period 2008-2012 has already not been met because of the non-participation of the united states.
the consequences of this predicted failure will be dramatic: water shortages, pollution, increased risk of conflict, not to mention the increase in migration flows.
i am in favour of an ambitious international climate agreement.
the european union cannot continue to set itself stricter environmental standards than elsewhere, because by doing so it sacrifices its companies and its employees by imposing on them an additional distortion of competition.
increasing our carbon reduction targets without our partners doing the same would only encourage relocations to areas of the world where the legislation is less restrictive.
this would also create additional emissions when repatriating finished products to europe.
it is possible to reconcile industry and the environment.
i supported this text, which is a useful reminder of the european union's efforts to combat climate change and the importance of reaching a binding global agreement in paris in 2015. as for the mention of sea and air transport, if i fully support their contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases, it must be through the development of new, cleaner technologies and not through the reduction of flows of these modes of transport which are essential for global growth.
this text is a good basis for an ambitious eu position in terms of combating climate change and for greater environmental protection.
i voted in favour of this report in order to push the european commission to adopt the most ambitious position possible at the international climate forum in lima.
while environmental protection is undoubtedly a major issue, today's motion for a resolution is not reassuring.
is it a question of delegating even more powers to the eu so that it adds an ecological disaster to the economic disaster it has generated?
i am voting in favour of a resolution to allow the european union to play a full part in the lima conference on climate change.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2014 united nations climate change conference, to be held in lima from 1 to 12 december.
the house is therefore calling for an ambitious global agreement by 2015 and encouraging member states to move forward with their negotiations ahead of cop 21 in paris in 2015. we stress the importance of the eu's contribution to the fight against climate change and call on other states around the world to do the same, including by contributing to the green fund set up at the copenhagen conference in 2009. the special situation of developing countries (ldcs), which emit the least co2 but suffer the most from its consequences, is also taken into account, through a call for a smarter development aid policy.
these provisions are in line with my vision of the role of the european union on the international stage in the face of the challenges of climate change.
the lima negotiations will take place next month and could lead in the long term to an ambitious climate agreement in paris in 2015. the european union will thus be forced to negotiate with its global partners to increase their investment in climate policy in order to contribute to environmental protection, the development of sustainable technologies and the creation of jobs.
for this reason, we know that the issues of tax evasion, tax avoidance, investment and the ecological transition are top priorities.
in particular, we must target investments where they are useful for a new development model and therefore do everything we can to ensure that the ecological transition takes place in the european union so that we are the pioneers in this area and are ahead of the curve.
this is the subject of the report i shall have the honour to defend on the sustainable development of the european base metal industry, including steel.
european producers must be on an equal footing with their non-european competitors, who are often subject to less ambitious social and environmental standards.
but there is no question of encouraging a bottom-up approach that would involve the dismantling of our social rights or the denial of our health and climate objectives.
to get back on the path to growth and jobs, we need a radical change in policy, abandoning the single currency that is holding the economy back and protecting us from unfair competition from emerging countries whose social and environmental standards are far from ours.
i sincerely hope that with our joint efforts we will be able to relegate under-nutrition to history, once and for all, and pave the way to sustainable development.
today, mr juncker is president of the european commission, backed by a large left-right-center-environment coalition, and it is not acceptable that a person responsible for the establishment of this system should be kept in that position.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this was a ploy designed to give publicity to europe-haters of all stripes and to waste valuable time which could be spent on much more important issues such as employment and growth.
so let's get to work and not waste any more time because the rest of the world isn't waiting for us.
but what energy and time spent organizing a vulgar political coup.
the juncker commission was to be censured along with the socialists and greens on the basis of a joint project to re-found the european project on the basis of social and ecological progress.
with a budget of over €350 billion, cohesion policy is an important public investment tool for our territories, especially in a tight budgetary environment.
impact assessment is a tool for providing information on the economic, social and environmental effects of eu legislation.
they provide information on the economic, social and environmental effects, the benefits of union action and the foreseeable regulatory and administrative constraints of new legislation.
the resolution also calls for the commission to be given the power to adopt and implement the measures necessary to ensure that the environment is protected.
in the current climate in which citizens sometimes question the added value of european legislation, the quality of impact studies makes perfect sense.
in particular, we welcome the growth of e-commerce, call for a legislative environment that encourages creativity and innovation, and are concerned with closing the digital divide, or removing existing barriers that continue to hold back the full deployment of the digital single market.
while every year in europe more and more healthy and edible food (up to 50% according to some estimates) is wasted along the agri-food chain to the consumer and becomes waste, 79 million european citizens live below the poverty line and 16 million depend on food aid.
the resolution goes beyond the unanimously shared findings and paternalistic recommendations to developing countries, and analyses the causes of child malnutrition: unequal distribution of resources, the impact of climate change on agricultural production, economic crises, discrimination against women and children, etc.
we can see that the european union's leading role in the conferences of the parties on climate has given them a new impetus.
the protection of fauna and flora is a long-term policy of great importance, as it guarantees the preservation of the natural environment in which we live, which is a great global asset.
this commitment to biodiversity is a battle that i am fighting with my french and european colleagues in this parliament, where we are presented with texts and projects that threaten fauna and flora, such as genetically modified organisms, and which glorify free trade.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against global warming and the reduction of greenhouse gases are among the major global environmental debates of the moment, as the lima climate conference, which ended this weekend, has just demonstrated.
the commission directive we are discussing today is one of the pillars of the european institutions' climate and energy policy.
the commission proposes five main approaches to calculating the constraints on fuel producers to reduce the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions.
the two sides in this debate have at least one thing in common: they both hide behind highly legal and mathematical considerations to conceal partisan motivations, which override the need for a real ecological policy.
we hope that the ecological policy of our countries will be guided by criteria of general interest which are not, by definition, shoplifting or commercialism.
we are called upon to work together on the major scientific, energy and ecological questions, but also, and perhaps especially, on the demographic issues.
if this money is used properly, it can be of use to the people of the southern mediterranean, who regularly face serious food and water problems due to the extreme instability of both climate and politics.
i say 'shared' because the issues raised by the erosion of natural capital, water scarcity and climate change are having an increasing impact on the southern shore of the mediterranean but also on the northern shore.
in december 2012, the commission committed to promoting better regulation to ensure a simple, clear, stable and predictable regulatory environment.
cites must ensure that international trade in cites-listed species, parts and derivatives thereof, does not undermine the conservation of biodiversity and is based on the sustainable use of wildlife.
it does not matter whether the basis is article 192 on the environment or a combination with article 207 which concerns the common commercial policy.
i therefore support this accession, which will enable the european union to play its proper role in environmental protection without encroaching on national sovereignty.
i believe it is important for the union to accede to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) in order to protect these endangered species, which are still too often the subject of illegal trade, to the best extent possible and to enable the union to pursue its environmental objectives.
the inclusion of the european union is therefore legitimate in this respect and in the context of the union's common commercial policy and environmental policy.
with this action, the european union is sending a strong signal in favour of protecting biodiversity and is asserting itself as a legal entity in its own right on the international scene.
the desire to achieve concrete results in the negotiations on the fight against biodiversity is very important for the future of the planet, provided that these negotiations are not contradicted by other policies, in particular trade policies.
‒ the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and ukraine was signed in copenhagen on 4 july 2002. this agreement, which covers many research areas (environment, transport, agriculture, health, etc.
it also provides for the integration of european legislation on the four freedoms in all the countries of the european economic area and governs their cooperation in strategic areas such as research and development, education, social policy and the environment.
the council decision of 10 february 2004 authorising the current scheme for 10 years expired on 1 july 2014. this improves the competitiveness of the local industry, which is suffering from the particular constraints listed in article 349 tfeu: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market combined with a poorly developed export activity.
the overseas territories are already suffering from the shortage of raw materials, the high cost of energy and the small size of their domestic market: it is our duty not to allow these territories to become even more impoverished and to encourage any measures which will enable their economic and social development.
our overseas territories are already suffering from a dependence on raw materials, a limited internal market and high energy costs.
the council decision of 10 february 2004 authorising the current scheme for 10 years expired on 1 july 2014. the local industry thus sees an improvement in its competitiveness, which is suffering from the particular constraints listed in article 349 tfeu: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to build up larger stocks, the small size of the local market combined with a poorly developed export activity.
but we need to go further, put a timetable on the table for tax harmonisation, create a truly stable environment for business and finally move towards economic governance of the euro area.
the other major priority is that europe regains the capacity to respond to the world's big questions, in terms of climate, common immigration policy, real foreign and defence policies.
the power of initiative, which belongs to the commission alone, gives you a very special responsibility, that of giving priority to the general european interest, namely to seek constantly a balance between the social, the environmental and the economic.
on behalf of the french delegation to the epp group, i would like to stress what we french meps in the epp group would consider to be two major priorities: a common european policy on asylum and immigration and a common european energy strategy.
the second thing we feared was the so-called better regulation, because we understood that it could be used not to abolish cumbersome procedures but to remove from the commission's agenda texts that are not to the liking of industry - this was clearly the case with regard to air pollution or the circular economy - or the member states - and this is clearly the case with the text on maternity leave.
this has led to an intense debate at the end of which we have agreed, also in agreement with the commission, to embark on a process which will enable us to bring the european union's debt to more acceptable and sustainable levels in the coming years.
we are very pleased with the demand from parliament, which was accepted by the council, to have a payment plan, because this would lead us towards sustainability and i can inform you already that the latvian presidency – the forthcoming presidency – is taking this task very seriously.
the first step is to know precisely what that amount is as of 31 december 2014 and to agree on what can be considered as a reasonable and sustainable amount.
indeed, there can be no sustainable growth without economic and monetary stability.
the debate in ecuador is intense and some see it as a change in economic direction by rafael correa, away from the alternative model supported by latin american governments and concerned with the issues of sustainable development and "buen vivir".
the cost of the real unforeseen, social or ecological, which can only be financed with delay.
draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations.
the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event.
yet europe is reluctant to commit itself despite the danger to the planet and its climate.
the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event.
draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations.
the rdp, which covers the revision of the estimates for traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, the reduction of the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for the partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries (eur 76.3 million in the ec and eur -6.2 million in the cp), and the increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman (the usefulness of which has yet to be demonstrated) only serve to mask the difficulties of the eu, which is a bad payer, and still does not solve the real budgetary problems.
draft amending budget no 6 provides for a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries, totalling eur 76.3 million in commitment appropriations and eur 6.2 million in payment appropriations.
i voted against this rdp no 6 which provides for the reduction of budgetary appropriations allocated to the european maritime and fisheries fund and to the reserve for partnership agreements in the field of sustainable fisheries.
a month later, heavy and violent rains exceeding four times the monthly climate averages fell on parts of the republic of bulgaria, causing severe flooding and significant disruption.
the solidarity fund is requested here to provide financial assistance to croatia, bulgaria and serbia to repair the damage caused by the large-scale floods they experienced during the summer of 2014. this is important to help them rebuild their infrastructure, particularly energy, and to continue to make it more secure.
we deplore the fact that europe is not taking a stronger stand against the dangers posed to the planet by our production methods and climate change.
the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event.
the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event.
the demands for this fund will increase as unbridled capitalism disrupts the climate and austerity policies of governments do not allow to cope with it.
i am voting for this crucial allocation to help countries affected by ever-growing environmental disasters.
the climate events that have struck the south of france in recent months give us the confidence that mutual financial assistance should make it possible to respond better to the human, material and financial consequences of this type of tragic event.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
the programme for this budget includes 10 priorities, including boosting employment, growth and investment, connecting the digital single market, combating global warming, securing europe's borders, etc.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
this list of infringements of eu rules for transport operators did not prohibit social dumping, in particular illegal cabotage, which is when a carrier operates in a neighbouring country without having the appropriate authorisations, and therefore without any guarantee that it complies with its social and environmental standards.
the european union is introducing environmental fuel specifications to reduce polluting emissions from cars.
directive 98/70/ec aims to meet the commitment of directive 94/12/ec, which provided for the subsequent adoption of target values involving a substantial reduction in polluting emissions from motor vehicles.
the motion for a resolution calls on us to oppose the adoption of the draft council directive, on the grounds that it does not set sufficiently strict requirements, particularly on emissions according to default averages of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions during production itself (which is undeniably impossible to assess).
as you know, the extraction of these deposits alone releases 23 percent more carbon than traditional hydrocarbons.
the adoption of this proposal for a directive shows in a very clear way that the european union is sacrificing all its social, health and environmental standards on the altar of free trade with canada and the united states.
the directive on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels is the result of an acceptable compromise reached on the methods of calculating the intensity of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions.
in the run-up to the paris climate conference in 2015, this directive already shows the european union's efforts to reduce ghg emissions.
the european union has set itself the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020. the transport sector is concerned with this perspective at the level of 6%.
indeed, oil sands are one of the most polluting sources of energy supply, releasing 23% more carbon into the atmosphere than conventional fuels.
with less than a year to go until the cop21 climate change conference in paris, this decline sends a bad signal to the international community.
i hope very much that this is only a temporary delay and that we can continue our efforts to combat global warming in 2015.
in writing.
the proposed resolution is built on an ideological vision of ecology by calling for the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions released during fuel production.
the authors of the resolution would like to be able to trace each fuel back to the crude oil from which it is derived, so as to give each fuel a rating in terms of its unit intensity of greenhouse gas emissions.
the system proposed by the european commission to use a default average value representing the unit greenhouse gas emission intensity by fuel type is more balanced.
this resolution challenged the compromise reached by the european commission, which was to use a default average value representing the unit greenhouse gas emission intensity by fuel type.
the revised directive 98/70/ec requires fuel suppliers to report annually the life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions produced per unit of energy supplied in each member state.
what is the point of setting targets for ghg reductions of 6% by 2020 if the methods of calculating emissions do not even allow the results to be measured?
the european union is introducing environmental standards for fuels to reduce greenhouse gases.
directive 98/70/ec aims to meet the commitment of directive 94/12/ec, which provided for the subsequent establishment of target values contributing to a substantial reduction of polluting emissions from motor vehicles.
with this motion for a resolution we are asked to vote on five highly technical and mathematical calculation methods to meet increasingly stringent requirements, particularly on emissions, using default average values of the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions during production itself (which is undeniably impossible to assess).
the commission considers that the council proposal is contrary to the objectives of the revised directive 98/70/ec which requires 'fuel suppliers to declare annually the life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of energy supplied in each member state and to reduce by 6 per cent by 31 december 2020 the life cycle ghg emission intensity for all fuels supplied in relation to the average value in the union of life cycle ghg emissions per unit of energy attributable to fossil fuels in 2010'.
in the current and future trade negotiations, we will not compromise on european environmental standards: the fight against climate change is everywhere and all the time!
we deplore the fact that a conservative majority has supported the commission in its lack of political courage, when the consequences for the climate will be catastrophic if the european union does not take the necessary measures to reduce polluting emissions from transport.
however, this proposal for a directive is the opposite of the direction the european union should take in the fight against climate change.
it is urgent that the european union finally work towards a real energy transition policy, which favours alternative fuels, which are more environmentally friendly, and clean modes of transport.
this proposal goes against the european commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions as set out in this directive.
the directive requires fuel suppliers to report their greenhouse gas emissions annually, with the aim of reducing them by 6% by 2020 compared to 2010. the directive is therefore a fundamental tool in the european fight against climate change.
ensuring the economic sustainability of the fisheries sector while preserving the sustainability of fisheries resources is a crucial challenge from both an environmental and an economic point of view.
i vote for the resolution which opposes this ecological nonsense.
i am voting against this resolution because it appears from the file that the scientists involved in this matter do not consider that the species or its environment will be affected under such fishing conditions.
the european parliament also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
it is urgent to create a climate of appeasement in order to initiate and support the peace and negotiation efforts, which are now extremely slow or even suspended.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the steel sector is facing a very serious crisis; i have therefore been keen to support employment by encouraging investment, research, innovation and training of workers, especially as these professions are making constant efforts to take account of the reduction of co2 emissions.
the european steel industry is currently experiencing the simultaneous effects of low demand and global overcapacity combined with high energy prices.
it is essential, in the interests of the european union as a whole, to preserve the activities which feed its industrial fabric and to ensure the security of energy supply through domestic production.
in france, as in the rest of europe, the steel industry is suffering from the combined effect of lower demand and strong international competition, which is not subject to the same social and environmental requirements.
i therefore hope that the member states will consider introducing measures which can reduce the burden of high energy costs on the steel industry in europe compared to its global competitors.
i also want the commission to continue to ensure the continued monitoring of concerns about carbon leakage and environmental dumping related to carbon dioxide, and to consider measures that could address this situation for the post-2020 energy-climate framework.
finally, i stress the importance of continuing investment in research into carbon capture and storage, as significant progress in this area could, in the longer term, significantly reduce overall emissions in the steel sector.
finally, i am pleased that the resolution insists on the introduction of a carbon tax at the border and a complementary label 'made in europe'.
this text demonstrates the importance for the eu's forestry sector of achieving good environmental performance in the face of increasing global competition by improving access to raw materials, a major challenge when competitors do not have to comply with the same standards and objectives.
the european parliament has called for research and development to be carried out to find a way of reducing emissions, particularly co2.
to this end, the sector must not only be protected against social and environmental dumping but also be given a new lease of life.
this is an innovative sector, important in terms of the internal market and the labour force, but facing many challenges (high energy and raw material prices, strong competition, restructuring and relocations).
it proposes that the high european standards for climate and environmental protection become global standards.
the steel industry must also be able to benefit from advantages due to the quality of the steel as it is produced in europe and its lower carbon footprint.
i therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which puts forward a series of proposals to reform this sector and try to preserve the many jobs it still represents in europe: investing in training workers as well as in research and innovation, in particular with a view to reducing the environmental impact of these activities, making the best use of available european resources (european social fund, european globalisation adjustment fund and innovative financial instruments), engaging the social partners on the changes to be made and taking into account the interests of the sector in the context of european trade and competition policies.
support for the european steel industry is a response to the investment crisis in the sector, which is in dire need of training its workers and developing research and innovation in order to reduce its environmental impact and improve its competitiveness.
the know-how and expertise developed in major industrial clusters will thus guarantee diversification, environmental protection and the development of innovative products.
steel is essential to european industry, but the european union and its member states are still unable to come up with a real plan for the recovery of the steel industry in crisis, taking into account environmental issues.
this resolution is in line with the previous ones, whereas it is time to make proposals that meet both the economic and environmental needs of the sector and the expectations of employees, as the social challenges cannot be met independently of the rest.
this resolution provides some guarantees for the protection of the environment and the social rights of workers and, although they are far below what might be expected, they have led me to abstain.
i welcome the adoption of this resolution; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on: the recommendation of andrejs mamikins, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (09827/2014 c80129/2014 2014/0086nle ((()) (a80041/2014), and the report of andrejs mamikins, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision approving the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part (a80042/2014 (ini)) (a80042/2014).
gsp+ status for the philippines is a huge opening for social and environmental dumping.
this proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, is intended to eventually allow georgia to accede to the european union.