vans are a key part of their activities, so reducing the cost of van operation should not be seen as an environmental pleasantry: it should be seen as absolutely central to making european businesses more efficient and helping them reduce their costs.
this is one of those occasions where we could have had a win-win solution, where we could have really raised our environmental ambitions, and that would have been good for business.
so i see this as an opportunity missed, and i look forward to the commission coming back with revised proposals in the years to come: looking at the technology that is then available, raising our ambitions and helping us to achieve the genuine win-win solution that is good for the environment and good for business.
− madam president, our aim should be not only to reduce europe’s co2 emissions but also to do so at the least-possible cost.
for this reason it would be wrong to commit ourselves to the development of particular technologies to the exclusion of others, and the commission would be right to propose a 2030 low-carbon technology without specifying how it should be reached, because the solution will vary from one country to another.
sometimes renewable energy will play a large part.
elsewhere there will be a role for carbon capture and storage.
ccs is the only means of achieving large reductions in emissions from the steel, cement and other major industrial installations.
but, even given our present knowledge, the zero emissions platform and major engineering companies like alstom say that ccs will be cheaper per unit of low-carbon electricity than offshore wind, and in many cases much cheaper than solar.
governments have thrown money at renewable energy projects but relied entirely on the co2 price to promote business investment in ccs.
renewable energy would have gone the same way were it not receiving specific governmental support.
across the world co2 emissions are rising fast.
we have got to deal with the emissions from fossil fuels.
it is not surprising that the international energy agency stresses the importance of developing ccs, and we should not lose sight of the fact that there are business opportunities here for european companies.
for the sake of our climate and our economy, let us embrace the full range of technologies that are available to help us reduce our co2 emissions and let us make ccs happen.
first, the title of this report by chris davies – which i hope will never become law – should be ‘carbon dioxide capture and storage’, not just the solid carbon.
if you do not believe me, try it in a greenhouse.
then there is the atmospheric greenhouse effect.
of course, scientists tell us that co2 is only a very minor greenhouse gas and that water vapour in the atmosphere is responsible for over 80 per cent of the greenhouse gas effect on the earth.
so what is all this about carbon?
the eu loves its fuel duty, its vat on gas and electricity and carbon allowances for big industry, taxing our jobs away to other countries, making our bills ever higher and blaming the power industry.
of course, some scientists support carbon capture and storage – but then they get subsidies and grants from the eu, so they would, wouldn’t they?
i am reminded of the anaerobic digester nonsense that is happening on farms at the moment, where we pour energy into growing maize with fertiliser and horsepower, saying how clever we are in reducing emissions, only to go and take this to a digester to burn it.
so what are you going to do with all the carbon dioxide?
i look forward to seeing exactly what is in the climate strategy next week.
a matter we did not touch upon is this: when will the directorate-general for energy come up with its plans?
the illegal killing of totemic species such as elephants and rhinos makes ready headlines and citizens are outraged, but we must not forget the many other smaller species – many vital to regional biodiversity around the world – which are just as important.
this money must be spent in tackling the real social, economic and environmental challenges faced in these areas and should not become embroiled in a political pantomime.
much of this is also sustainable.
the resolution ignores the role that well-managed sustainable use and trade can play in promoting effective wildlife conservation and species recovery.
the uk is more susceptible to flooding with the onset of man-made climate change, but the response of successive governments has been inadequate, uncoordinated and costly.
while people struggle to cope with this emergency, the uk’s environment agency has been caught ganderflanking.
the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
the next item is the report by pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the ehealth action plan 2012-2020 – innovative healthcare for the 21st century (2013/2061(ini)) (a7-0443/2013).
the vote will take place on tuesday, 14 january 2014.
the next item is the report by esther de lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the food crisis, fraud in the food chain and the control thereof (2013/2091(ini)) (a7-0434/2013).
it promotes sustainability and long-termism in decision-making, which can benefit both employees and employers.
we must ensure that we spend this money in the most efficient and sustainable way possible in order to aid the development of the region.
such an approach would benefit small entrepreneurs as well as the climate.
the legislation could have provided a clear path towards a 2025 target to combat climate change effectively.
− i voted in favour of this report because it will be good for the environment and save van users money.
i believe it is a sensible and balanced one, which rightly maintains the long-term co2 emissions reduction target of 147g/km by 2020, which was agreed by this house only two years ago.
what has happened as we have gone down this road of introducing environmental, social and other standards is that, in practice, we erect barriers to entry.
mr president, i support the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs).
indeed, unless we have ccs and include it in our long-term energy plans, it will not be possible to reduce emissions without also switching off the lights.
fundamentally, it is more complicated to build a storage facility for carbon dioxide storage than to put up a wind turbine.
mr president, the davies report gives important impetus to carbon capture and storage (ccs).
we have still not got a commitment to go beyond an investigation and a research phase, when ccs is important for the future of tackling climate change in our own country and right across the planet.
while carbon capture and storage (ccs) could have a role to play in future in reducing the carbon footprint of industrial sectors such as steel or cement, it should not be used as a cover for ‘business as usual’ for the fossil fuel industry.
our focus should be on cutting carbon emissions and improving energy efficiency.
this area has the potential to be an important technology in the fight against climate change and it is important that the most effective european policy is implemented.
− i support this report because i think it is important to address the failings of the ccs so far and that there is an urgent need to include goals in the 2030 climate and energy framework.
whilst i believe there are some key factors which have held back carbon capture and storage and which the report does not address, i voted in favour of the report because i feel that carbon capture and storage should form an important part of our long-term industrial and energy strategy.
− today i voted for the implementation report on developing and applying carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology in europe.
i believe that carbon capture and storage – a technique which traps carbon dioxide (co2) as it is emitted from large point sources, compresses it and transports it to a suitable storage site, where it is injected into the ground – has significant potential as a mitigation technique for climate change in europe.
one of the most dramatic impacts of a tumultuous financial climate has been the impact on the health sector.
we need to increase the sustainability and efficiency of health systems by empowering citizens, unlocking innovation and enhancing patient/citizen-centred care, while also sharing best practice among member states, with a view to supporting cross-border healthcare and health security.
i support this report because i believe that social protection systems need to be modernised, with responsible and sustainable long-term financing of social security, in order to ensure sound, sustainable and adequate social protection for all.
− i voted in favour of this report calling for binding targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste.
in wales we already have a plastic bag charge in place but this does not mean that our work is complete in terms of reducing the amount of plastic waste we produce.
− it is right to minimise plastic waste and protect the environment.
many smaller companies have creative solutions in the sustainable packaging sector.
alternatives to single-use plastic bags, such as jute, cotton or paper bags, often use up more energy in production, and so they are not necessarily an environment-friendly option.
− i voted in favour of this report because there is a need for eu legislation on the use of plastic and how best we can recycle and cut down the environmental impact of this product.
− 79% of plastic waste is sent to the landfill or incineration instead of being recycled.
− improving the management of plastic waste is a goal that i fully support.
i voted in favour of this report although i would like to see a better balance in efforts to tackle plastic waste effectively, in terms of avoiding placing burdens or costs on businesses, including smes.
− the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment is parliament’s response to the commission’s green paper on plastic waste, which recommends specific measures for this type of waste in eu legislation.
currently, 79% of our plastic waste is sent for landfill or incineration, instead of being recycled.
i voted in favour of the report in the hope that this wastefulness can be curtailed and that our resources can be used and disposed of in a more environment-friendly way.
i was pleased to see moves towards phasing out the worst kinds of plastic, which are not biodegradable and are damaging to the environment, by 2020. i believe the success of the 5p charge for carrier bags in wales has shown that the public backs waste reduction, and i hope to see this initiative rolled out across europe.
− i voted against this report as the socialist rapporteur called for binding targets for collection, separation and recycling by 2020. an enforced, harmonised and overly bureaucratic set of rules on the disposal of plastic waste across the whole european union will further burden uk householders with additional requirements as to how much, and in what way, they need to recycle.
furthermore, i am not in favour of binding targets for member states regarding the ban on landfilling, as there are great differences among the regions and differences in the types of waste they produce.
while i agree that we need to dispose of our waste better, we must not lose our grip on reality by applying a one-size-fits-all approach, and we must work hard to prevent the eu taking green rules to the extreme once again.
this report provides an overarching aim to improve the competitiveness of european rural tourism and improve the capacity for sustainable growth in rural areas.
we must have policies that are fair and effective, and this should not be to the detriment of our environment or of our citizens.
i welcome the possibilities for more sustainability in terms of clarity in the use of environmental, social and fair trade criteria, and also the splitting up of large contracts, making things easier for small businesses and cutting red tape.
i hope to see the achievements reflected in the new scottish public procurement bill because, if they are implemented correctly, we will see a much more sustainable approach to procurement that will encompass our social and environmental goals.
she has expertly navigated this incredibly difficult issue, and i am hugely disappointed that the committee on the environment (envi) did not support her eminently sensible and highly laudable report.
there is an amendment in the report, which went through the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which suggests that the commission should look at the figure of 10 kilometres.
however, we also need competitive cost-bases, especially for our energy-intensive companies.
in europe in the past two years, 12 plants have shut down but 17 plants are opening on our borders, plants that will supply us with products but will not pay our carbon taxes.
secondly, i look forward to the publication next week of the 2030 climate and energy package.
i say that it is against the spirit of the age, because our emphasis now is on corporate social responsibility, encouraging people to do things other than maximise their profit: encourage them to have different criteria – charitable, environmental or whatever.
the directive will allow local authorities to set most economically advantageous tender criteria, rather than just lowest cost, which will allow them to consider social and environmental concerns when awarding contracts.
other measures include allowing procurers to insist that collective bargaining agreements are respected; the possibility to exclude operators if they break environmental and labour laws and tougher sanctions for those who fail to comply.
mr president, when you look at the sectors covered in this report – the water, energy, transport and postal sectors – they are some of the largest utilities and some of the largest companies actually awarding public procurement contracts.
− i voted for the tarabella report on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
i strongly support the reform package and i therefore voted in favour of this agreement on the directive on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal-services sectors.
mr president, on public procurement, i am favourable to certain aspects beyond just the price being taken into consideration, such as environmental issues, issues to do with the quality of the services, and also perhaps the need for mandatory e-government or e-procurement.
the trade in illegal wildlife products is now worth usd 19 billion a year and, as well as damaging biodiversity through the loss of already endangered species, represents a threat to security and the rule of law in many countries as there is evidence that it is linked to organised crime, the funding of armed militias and terrorism.
mr president, the title of this report – reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability – reflects the concerns felt by many commentators across europe, that the financial crisis of 2008 and the subsequent euro crisis have had disastrous consequences in the union, highlighting in the process the competitiveness weakness that is so pertinent in the face of emerging economies such as china.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is a good report on the best strategy for making europe a competitive region and ensuring our industry is sustainable.
i believe that eu-level policy coordination in the homelessness sector has supported and enhanced efforts within member states to protect individuals at national, regional and local level, and i hope to see renewed energy and effort put into tackling this extreme and damaging form of poverty.
this climate now appears to be extending into 2014, as already we have seen five peacefully-demonstrating garment-factory workers killed by government security forces.
the climate of fear created by his abduction remains real.
it is through commitment on the part of this parliament, leadership from the heads of state and government in council and through changing attitudes in the commission towards a leaner, more effective europe, based on a competitive regulatory environment promoting jobs and growth.
we must be bolder still in our efforts to establish a competitive business environment.
the current economic climate has shown that regulation must be fit for purpose, simple to implement and cost-effective.
madam president, we need to make the switch from fossil fuels to green energy, because power generation accounts for 25% of greenhouse gas emissions.
we can bring down electricity bills, we can distribute energy generation and, with eu-wide standards for interoperability, we can ensure that the connecting europe facility is promoting these smart energy projects.
the aim of the clp is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by labelling to show potential hazardous effects of chemicals.
a notification mechanism will be put in place for member states to provide the commission with certain data and information regarding investment projects in energy infrastructure that concern the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas and electricity.
i voted in favour of this report as it will help to build a better understanding of the eu’s energy infrastructure, which will be particularly important when reviewing and planning energy security policies.
- i voted against this report, as i did not feel that it was strong enough in terms of developing an energy policy that would protect the environment.
we need an energy policy that will secure supply, mitigate climate change and ensure competitiveness.
significant investment in energy infrastructure is crucial.
i welcome the launch today of ‘energy wales’, which sets out how wales should exploit its natural resources for the greatest social, environmental and economic gain.
- i voted in favour of this report and consider it an important part of enhancing the internal market in energy.
- i voted in favour of this report because this is a first reading agreement concerning notification of energy infrastructure projects.
the eu provides a vital level of governance for coordinating energy infrastructure across eu borders and this ultimately makes our energy supply more reliable.
- i voted in favour of this report as i believe in the continued growth of the energy and renewable sources industries.
- a strong understanding of the eu’s energy infrastructure is important if we are to ensure effective planning of energy security policies.
this report is a brave attempt to try and shift power downwards, to take decisions more closely to the people they affect and therefore to avoid the duplication, the waste and bureaucracy which is intrinsic in large government and is the single chief reason why the european union is falling further and further behind and why it is the only continent on earth not experiencing any growth.
labour meps have taken a consistent and coherent approach to safeguarding environmental and social measures in existing eu legislation.
right-wing meps rejected s&d amendments to ensure the protection of these measures, and therefore labour meps could not vote in favour of the report, which would undermine eu environmental, consumer and worker protection.
the inclusion of the suggestion for a stronger ‘yellow card’ procedure for national parliaments as well as the rejection of amendments concerning workers’ information and consultation rights, consumer rights and environmental concerns meant that i could not support this report.
i believe that while eu laws must be clear and easily understood, reducing the regulatory burden should not undermine environmental, consumer and social rights in existing eu legislation.
although i support the objective that european legislation should be simple and effective without creating an unnecessary regulatory burden, this report challenges many social and environmental measures that labour meps have consistently supported.
workers’ rights cannot be viewed as a regulatory burden, and simplifying eu law should not come at the expense of rules that provide important environmental and social protection.
moreover, as parliament has already adopted reports on the role of cohesion policy in implementing eu energy policy and on the implementation of energy efficiency measures under cohesion policy, this report is unnecessary and unhelpful.
beyond this question of competence, the report calls for ambitious strategies and policies for dealing with co2 emissions – in particular, the call for further ambitious binding energy efficiency and renewable energy targets.
i am firmly opposed to the setting of any such ambitious targets which prioritise renewable energies over other low-carbon alternatives.
moreover, i am strongly opposed to the earmarking of 20 % of erdf funding in the recent 2014-2020 common provisions regulation for strategies to develop a low-carbon economy.
- i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the importance of the development of a flexible and decentralised energy supply which is stable, secure and affordable and especially important for nations such as wales.
- i support smart grid schemes that create a more efficient and effective energy supply.
my own constituency has experienced an upward spiral of energy prices.
firstly, it sets extremely ambitious climate change targets for 2030. secondly, it arguably breaches the subsidiarity principle, as 20 % of the european regional development fund is earmarked for a ‘low carbon economy’.
- i voted in favour of this report because i support greater care towards the environment which this report will help achieve through lowering of greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and other important influences.
it also results in unnecessary duplication when it comes to the role of cohesion policy in implementing eu energy policy and the implementation of energy efficiency measures, as parliament has already adopted reports on these issues.
- i voted in favour of this own-initiative report, which looks at how energy is produced and consumed at local and regional level.
it is vitally important that resources are used appropriately so that regions become producers and not only consumers of energy.
lowering greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and boosting eu technology and innovation.
cooperation between smallholdings, environment and animal-welfare sections is vital and it will be a great way forward.
we were particularly pleased to see a focus on research and innovation in the committee report and also the acknowledgement that eu climate and energy policies have led to an increase in energy prices throughout europe.
- scotland once had a competitive and sustainable steel industry.
- i voted in favour of this report because i support low carbon energy deployment strategies and the restructuring of the industrial sector.
the report also highlights the effect that rising energy prices have had on the competitiveness of the steel industry and i support remarks made to underline the importance of the single energy market in relation to this.
it is not legal, which is why the uk has to waste money taking the eu to court.
this is a waste of time, a waste of effort and a waste of money, and the poorest will end up paying.
– mr president, i do not normally wave my national flag, but i have in london a liberal democrat environment minister who is doing his very best to ensure that we are putting forward a low-carbon strategy for the future.
if mr eickhout wants to point the finger at my country, will he recognise that, while my country’s share of renewable energy is probably about third from the bottom of the european list, that of the netherlands is about fourth from the bottom?
– i did think my colleague, mr davies, was going to try and ask you to explain why the german subsidy for renewables is currently about a hundred times greater than the cost of the co2 emissions it prevents, because surely that is a subsidy to be aware of.
we will not make our carbon reduction targets without investing in a plethora of different solutions for low carbon, including nuclear, where the life-span subsidy is actually less than the subsidy given to renewables.
– my question concerns challenging the figures on the cost of nuclear energy.
– mr president, recently the international panel on climate change published a report showing that 95% of scientific research points to human action being the cause of climate change, yet the commission has failed to produce ambitious 2030 climate and energy targets.
i urge this parliament to endorse legally binding targets for greenhouse gas emission reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
these targets must be ambitious if we are to avoid unprecedented global warming.
these three binding targets promote much-needed investment in green and renewable technology.
i do not believe that false options, such as nuclear or carbon capture and storage, are the way forward.
we should make clear that meps are committed to leading the battle to control climate change.
parliament should also show that it understands the economic necessity of using energy more efficiently and of developing secure, sustainable, indigenous european energy sources.
it is the volatile and rising cost of imported fossil fuels which is driving up europe’s energy prices, not subsidies to renewables.
the most important lesson to learn from the 20/20/20 climate package is that binding targets work; they deliver.
without a binding 2020 target for energy efficiency, progress has been far too slow, despite the fact that there is a political consensus that energy efficiency is vital for economic efficiency, and i welcome commissioner oettinger’s promise of further proposals on energy efficiency later this year.
i am in no doubt that some individuals and governments supporting a single greenhouse gas target sincerely want to see an ambitious level of greenhouse gas reduction and a market-driven push to a low carbon economy made possible by a high carbon price.
but let us not be naive, most individuals and governments who want a single greenhouse gas target want it because they hope it will ensure that nothing much happens at all.
they want the greenhouse gas reduction to be 30%, not 40% or 50%.
they want the target to be set after the climate change talks in 2015 and not before.
they say they want the market to drive investment, but at the same time they vehemently oppose any reform of the emissions trading scheme (ets) and any rise in the carbon price.
energy efficiency and renewables are the ‘no regrets’ options of greenhouse gas reduction.
what we have to achieve, for the sake of the planet, is a very serious and quick reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
my concern is that without a high carbon price, for which there is a great absence of support politically at the moment, a single greenhouse gas target cannot deliver such a reduction.
i do not see support for a high carbon price, which would be necessary if a single greenhouse gas target were to deliver what people want it to deliver.
mr president, we need affordable, secure and sustainable energy policies.
in the past decade, europe’s industrial policy has been neglected in favour of climate policies.
in seven years, our energy prices have risen by 40%, but in the usa they are down by 4%.
companies have relocated to countries with cheaper energy.
the eu currently creates 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
an eu emissions target is a good sign to others and an important sign of a global bargain.
member states must be free to choose their own energy mix: nuclear, renewables, ccs, shale and energy efficiency too.
– i am really worried about smes, because just in the past few months i have been hearing from the glass industry, from the cement industry and from the fertiliser industry about how other operators are opening up on our borders and moving their plants to other parts of the world – plants that are not cleaner, plants that are not more energy efficient, but which are just taking jobs and growth with them.
that is why we need affordable, secure and sustainable energy.
i was thinking back to five years ago, when we had just adopted the climate package and had a clear ambition – across all the mainstream parties here – about what we needed to do.
as mrs hall said, at a time when the evidence of climate change is all around us, our citizens understand what it means.
that is not the way to lead in the world; that is not the way to lead on climate change.
mr president, in our last session, parliament called for member states to be required to produce a long-term strategy for reducing their emissions by 80 to 95% by 2050 and that, i am afraid, is missing from the commission’s recent communication about long-term vision.
two years ago, parliament supported my report calling for a competitive low-carbon economy, and i have to say that i believe that setting a european renewables target is the wrong way to achieve that balance.
i have always supported a role for renewables, but i believe that some members here have lost sight of the objective, which is to achieve a low carbon economy at the lowest possible cost.
– the ccs report that we put forward recommends carbon capture and storage as one of the technologies that need to be developed.
mr president, on energy policy we like to talk about three objectives: energy security, competitiveness and sustainability, although the technologies we use to pursue sustainability are clearly unsustainable.
we are driving energy-intensive businesses away off-shore, taking their jobs and their investments with them.
often they go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, so we are increasing global emissions while driving jobs out of the eu.
we are forcing up domestic energy prices and driving households and pensioners into fuel poverty; thousands of pensioners will die of winter cold as a result of our policies.
renewable subsidies are profoundly regressive, taking money from poor consumers and giving it to rich landowners, companies and hedge funds.
we need to scrap renewable subsidies; we need to prioritise indigenous resources like shale gas and coal.
also, the environmental impact and energy efficiency of passengers’ travel will be provided on the website and on the tickets for the journey.
we cannot expect people to be more responsible about carbon emissions if they do not know what the effect of their activities will be.
but in terms of the important sectors of the workforce listed here, one of which is agriculture, we go to a lot of effort to produce food in the european union and we are rightly concerned about food waste, yet we have seen a situation where it can be left to rot in the fields because we cannot get a local workforce necessary to complete the harvest.
funding of this sort is important in providing eu consumers with fresh, sustainable fish and infrastructure and income to the gabonese economy.
- i support this revised proposal for a new partnership agreement between the eu, greenland and denmark which will facilitate consultation and policy dialogue in a number of areas of shared interest, including energy, environment, climate change, natural resources, maritime transport, research and innovation and arctic issues.
i am always defending regional, national and european freight transport strategies that encourage a modal shift from road to more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail and inland waterways.
- although i was very pleased by parliament’s endorsement of three legally binding targets – on energy efficiency, the renewable share in energy consumption, and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions – there are aspects of this report that i disagree with, particularly the references to nuclear energy and to carbon capture and storage as possible means of decarbonising the economy.
however, i was pleased that the report also calls for shale-gas exploration and extraction to be subject to environmental impact assessment (eia), and for data transparency in relation to chemicals used in the fracking process.
in the light of the unambitious climate and energy 2030 framework announced by the commission on 22 january 2014, i voted in favour of this report.
- i voted against this report because our energy market must be free from the burden of expensive renewable energy quotas.
i cannot support this joint committee report calling for the continuation of the 2020 binding targets on emissions reduction and renewables, as well as a mandatory target for energy efficiency.
the commissioner for industry has said that europe faces an ‘industrial massacre’ because of high energy costs.
we cannot afford to continue to make the same mistakes that have pushed our energy costs to such a high level.
it proposes binding climate and energy targets for 2030 on renewables, energy efficiency and greenhouse gases.
i had received much correspondence from my constituents in wales who are concerned that the eu should lead in the fight against climate change, and want ambitious targets.
- i voted for this report because i believe we should reduce our dependency on fossil fuels and should, instead, support clean industries so as to help fight climate change.
it does not take due account of the lessons that need to be learned from the 2020 climate and energy framework, nor does it offer the flexible approach that is needed if we are to reduce the high energy costs which eu citizens face in the current market.
- i am pleased that the socialists and democrats were successful in pushing for binding targets in this report, which sets out an ambitious framework for climate and energy.
this own-initiative report highlights parliament’s priorities in relation to climate change and clean energy policy.
i am pleased that targets for a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases and the inclusion of 30% renewables in the energy mix, as well as an energy efficiency target of 40% by 2030, were adopted.
investing in renewables and low carbon technology is vital if we are to reduce our dependency on imported fossil fuels.
i am disappointed that tory meps voted to water down the proposals: this once again highlights the differences between uk government policy and the position taken by tory meps on climate change and sustainable energy.
- this report sets out the european parliament’s position on a framework for climate and energy policies for the period 2020-2030. i supported the report as it is clear we need to take action to reduce emissions and prevent climate change, while maintaining our energy security.
with the aim of limiting global warming to below 2°c, the eu needs to achieve an emissions reduction target of 80% below 1990 levels.
labour meps and our socialist colleagues called for an ambitious report with binding targets for emissions reduction, renewables and energy efficiency.
the report also calls for energy prices to be affordable and transparent.
in order to ensure we have a sustainable and balanced energy mix, i believe we need to send a clear signal for investment in renewable and low-carbon technology, which may include carbon capture and storage, nuclear and possibly shale gas, provided that the necessary safety provisions are in place.
consumers need full information on the provenance of their food to enable them to make informed decisions, and knowing where an animal was born is essential if consumers are to be allowed to make decisions based on animal welfare or environmental concerns.
- the inland waterway transport sector in the eu provides an environment-friendly alternative to road and rail.
with over 37 000 km of inland waterways in europe, the sector is vital for transporting goods between towns and cities and it helps to keep both noise and gas emissions down.
i welcome an action programme to support this sector and i hope that future spending from the connecting europe fund, the cohesion fund and horizon 2020 will be used effectively to expand the network across europe, to improve innovation in the sector and to enhance the environmental aspects of inland waterway transport.
- madam president, „gut ding will weile haben!“ and „ende gut, alles gut!“are german sayings that somehow reflect what we experienced with our proposals on emissions from passenger cars.
actually we have secured a 27% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020 for new cars, compared to the standards set for 2015. that is really something substantial.
as we have set out in the commission communication on the 2030 policy framework for climate and energy, it is absolutely clear that vehicle emissions need to continue reducing in the next decade – that is the decade after 2020. the commission indicates that transport should reduce its overall emissions by 20% in 2030, compared to 2008. that is not a small task.
in view of that challenge, the commission made a statement, which has been transmitted to parliament for inclusion in the minutes, and which refers both to the annual rate of reduction in co2 emissions and the range of ambition indicated by parliament of 68g to 78g co2 per km.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
this matters, not just in terms of reducing co2 emissions and tackling climate change, but also because more efficient cars use less fuel and save money for hard-pressed individuals – up to a thousand pounds (eur[nbsp ]1[nbsp ]200) a year for the average driver.
you may remember that there was a voluntary agreement which the car industry was not keeping to, and it took some time before the commission would introduce proposals specifically to reduce co2 emissions.
i think the whole legislation has been very good indeed – good for drivers, good for our environment and good for the car industry, which has kept its lead in the world.
so there is a degree of level playing field which allows us to make good environmental improvements.
– mr lamberts, it is all very well for you, as a green mep, to say that it is a disaster that people are finding the cost of living so high, yet it is your green policies – firstly, not allowing gm crops to be grown properly in europe, which would make food cheaper and, secondly, your crazy energy policies – which are raising the price of energy to every single household.
madam president, i welcome this long-awaited agreement on reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars by 2020. it gives crucial certainty to car manufacturers across europe.
if we want car manufacturers to invest in low carbon technologies, we need to give them this certainty.
reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars is vital to fight against air pollution and climate change and also to reduce fuel costs for consumers.
i made a commitment to my constituents in wales to use my vote to combat climate change.
- i voted against this report as i am disappointed that parliament has opted to become less ambitious in terms of emissions targets.
- i voted in favour of this report as the new 2020 target will save consumers hundreds of pounds a year on fuel costs, and help our car industry stay ahead of the game in the move to the low-carbon future.
i am satisfied with the outcome of the trilogue negotiations and i am particularly pleased to see that the agreement reached accounts for the change in economic climate that we have seen since the initial proposal of the 2020 target was made, by allowing for a phasing-in of the target.
finally, in noting my vote in favour of the report, i would like to welcome the restraint exhibited in not setting any indicative or binding targets for co2 emissions that extend beyond 2020.
in writing.
- i backed today’s report that brings in to force new co2 emissions targets in the eu.
i welcome the introduction of “super credits”, which is an incentive to manufacturers to produce vehicles with extremely low emissions.
with 12[nbsp ]% of europeʼs greenhouse gases currently coming from passenger cars, an ambitious target is essential for ensuring the eu remains on course to meet our emissions reduction targets.
incentives for manufacturers to go further and develop cars with much lower emissions will ensure the euʼs car industry remains competitive by encouraging the development of more fuel efficient technology.
but we must not forget that structural reforms in the labour market are necessary both for economic stability and sustainable job creation.
it will mean that energy, skills and new ideas will continue to leak out of towns and villages the length and breadth of ireland as our children – who are known as the skype generation, scattered around the world – leave.
it is imperative that, in the current economic climate, the member states do all they can to tackle unemployment and social exclusion.
i am also pleased that a number of new areas have been taken into account in this programme, including mental health, health inequalities, environmental and lifestyle factors and gender and age-related illnesses.
the cef aims to promote investment in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure through projects of european interest.
- this report addresses the issue of sustainable mining and development.
it is a very good idea, but it was launched without the support and safeguards necessary to make it strong and sustainable, not least as meps were ignored in the legislation.
tackling illegal logging around the world is a huge challenge but it is one we must address if we want to stop deforestation, protect biodiversity and tackle corruption.
some 90% of it is exported to countries with much lower environmental standards that have built-in corruption and impunity for the illegal trade in tropical forest products – economies that have the philosophy of ‘profit today and who cares about the future?’.
yet we have a minister who is in denial about climate change and dithering about whether they dare call on the european solidarity fund.
strong synergies with climate adaptation action are pursued, and climate- and disaster-resilient investments supported, through the cohesion policy.
disaster risk prevention considerations have been integrated into a number of key eu policies such as transport and energy, health, environmental impact assessment, ecosystems, agriculture, food and nutrition security, flood risk management, major industrial accident prevention, and research and innovation.
i have seen this for myself in tenby, aberystwyth and barmouth in the past weeks and heard from local councillors of the long-term implications for the economy and the environment.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) bemoans the fact that there was a lack of sustainable and viable projects that were eligible for eib funding.
mr president, the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on many occasions do disagree, but on this occasion they are agreed on what is actually happening, and i must say that i support the rejection of the proposed plant reproductive material.
if we are serious about promoting innovation and biodiversity in the eu, i find such measures very strange indeed.
paul nuttall, their deputy leader, serves on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, alongside me.
the report stresses the importance of promoting the horticulture sector and, particularly, of enabling it to compete better in the global marketplace through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and adaptation to climate change, all of which the report covers.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is vital that the eu implements the nagoya protocol in order to protect europe's biodiversity.
this is important to wales which has a commitment to sustainable development.
i believe in the principles of the nagoya protocol – the ‘fair and equitable’ sharing of benefits from the use of genetic resources between a private firm or research institute and the country of origin, which will in turn help developing countries gain a larger stake in conserving their biodiversity.
it is a waste of taxpayers’ money.
i have had many constituents from wales contact me on this matter, as the proposal would be harmful for ordinary gardeners and small businesses as well as for biodiversity.
labour meps were sympathetic to these objections and voted to reject this report on the basis that a ‘one-size-fits-allʼ approach is not appropriate and the proposed law would not provide the necessary protection for agri-biodiversity.
furthermore, i welcome greater focus on climate change mitigation and adaptation and the phasing-out of environmentally harmful subsidies.
it includes requirements guaranteeing an optimal level of safety and environmental standards.
this user-friendly digital environment stands to promote greater competition, both in domestic and foreign markets, by simplifying crucial processes.
- i have voted in favour of this proposal which aims to ban climate-unfriendly fluorinated gases in refrigerators and new air-conditioning appliances by 2022-2025. f-gases which pose a threat to human health can have a greenhouse warming effect up to 23,000 times greater than equivalent amounts of co2.
on this basis, let us send positive signals to turkey, open the energy chapter, give fresh vitality to negotiations, provide increased humanitarian assistance to the refugees in turkey’s border areas and encourage the talks on the reunification of cyprus, recognising that this is a genuinely two-sided issue which would be helped by substantive confidence-building measures from both greeks and turks.
it is costing jobs and is unnecessarily increasing our co2 emissions.
we need a more efficient european airspace to relieve congestion around airports and to meet our environmental challenges.
a sustainable future for aviation in europe means that we have to make the right efforts now.
i want to know, please, how these f- gases, or even carbon dioxide, cause global warming.
i want to know what experiments have been done and what results have been achieved that show that carbon dioxide, fluorinated gases and the like do actually cause global warming.
the president of the council has decided to structure the debate around three major components of our strategy for growth, jobs and competitiveness: first, the european semester; second, industrial competitiveness; third, climate and energy.
the european semester is the tool for monitoring implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, while industrial competitiveness, and climate and energy, are two of its levers.
there can be no industrial competitiveness without a coherent climate and energy policy, and vice versa.
a strong and competitive european industry must be seen alongside a coherent climate and energy policy.
the european council will therefore hold a first debate on a new policy framework for energy and climate in the period 2020 to 2030. the council is expected to call for early agreement, taking into account the timeline agreed in warsaw and the international events to come, in particular the cop 21 in paris next year, on an ambitious eu position on emissions reductions up to 2030. this of course is an area which will need to be developed further in the near future.
the european council will also take stock of progress made since its meeting on energy last may.
the completion of the internal energy market by 2014 and developing interconnections so as to end the exclusion of some member states from european gas and electricity networks by 2015 remain a priority.
it will also look at how to tackle the issue of high energy costs.
some of our industries have lost competitiveness; investment in research and innovation remains too low, holding back the modernisation of our industrial base; progress on improving the business climate remains uneven; european firms face higher energy prices than most of their leading competitors and have difficulties acquiring qualified labour and capital in affordable conditions.
last but not least, they need to ensure that all the necessary steps are taken towards dismantling the barriers that still exist to the full internal market that we wish to see, because this is one of the most difficult problems we have in europe when it comes, for instance, to areas such as the digital and energy sectors.
we need to take more steps towards a real internal market for energy so as to keep down energy costs.
the same is true for climate action policy in relation to energy policy.
rising energy prices for companies and consumers are a real cause for concern.
at the same time, green technologies are critical for growth and jobs, provided that we create the right environment for them to prosper sustainably.
and finally, in the light of the crisis in ukraine, no one will need to be reminded of the costs and dangers of europe’s continuing energy dependence.
the triangle of competitiveness, sustainability and security was already the key rationale behind the 2020 climate and energy policies, and we have proved that we can make it work in practice.
we must now build on that and go further, setting the pace for an ambitious and affordable agenda towards 2030. the strategic climate and energy framework which the commission tabled a few weeks ago does just that.
it proposes a binding, domestic greenhouse gas reduction target of minus 40[nbsp ]% by 2030 as compared with 1990. that is ambitious, not least when compared to other global actors.
and it is cost-effective, as our research shows, because 40[nbsp ]% is the smartest milestone on the path to our ambition for 2050. secondly, we should also set a binding 2030 target for renewables – at european level – of at least 27[nbsp ]% of energy consumption.
‘home-grown’ renewables are crucial, as they also contribute to our energy security.
we have to respect, of course, the national energy mixes.
lastly, energy efficiency.
i know this is a difficult decision for some, but i expect the european union will be able to maintain competitiveness and play a leading role on the climate agenda so that others can join in this effort.
my question is: why do you not send angela merkel to moscow to talk to them about the crisis in the crimea and about energy policy, rather than leaving it to john kerry?
secondly: if we speed up the switch from fossil fuels to clean energy, we not only regain our independence from russia, we also meet our commitments to fight climate change.
so why does the ppe continue to oppose the binding national targets that we need for the green energy switch of which mr barroso spoke?
and then you say: but we must pursue our climate-change carbon targets.
the americans have gone for shale gas and reduced energy prices.
this policy of economic unilateralism on climate change is what is destroying jobs in europe, and the electors are going to have a chance in 72 days’ time to give their verdict.
mr president, as we have heard, the first debate on the climate and energy framework 2030 will be held next week.
this is the time when we need to be ambitious on climate change, because the need to cut emissions is becoming more urgent if we are to avoid dangerous levels of global warming.
we need binding targets for energy efficiency as well as for increasing renewable energy.
the commission’s own research shows that higher targets result in reduced dependence on energy imports and in savings on health spending.
this is not just an environmental argument but an economic one.
we need sustainable employment in the energy sector.
we need to keep our promises to the people that we will work effectively to combat climate change.
it emphasises the value of local production and gmo free products as well as promoting respect for the environment and the need to educate citizens on the importance of nutrition and healthy eating.
but of course, job creation in the industry, a reduction in fuel burned by aircraft and an environment conducive to more competitive ticket prices are all touted as potential benefits if it were really to come to full fruition.
fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases) can be up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide.
this legislation could be the single biggest contribution to climate protection achieved during this parliament.
as a former member of the wales climate change commission, i know how important it is.
- i voted in favour of this agreement because fluorinated greenhouse gases pose a threat to the climate.
in this new legislation the eu is tackling this problem as part of its commitment to protecting our environment.
in a cost-effective way this new legislation will aid the transition to the next generation of climate-friendly alternatives in which uk and european industry already has a competitive edge.
- i supported this report on the proposal for a regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases.
these gases pose a threat to the climate and in this new legislation, i am pleased that the eu is tackling this problem as part of its commitment to protecting our environment.
in a cost-effective way, this new law will aid the transition to the next generation of climate-friendly alternatives in which uk and european industry already has a competitive edge.
- i voted in favour of this report as a strengthened eia directive will benefit not only the environment but also human health and the economy.
labour meps will continue to work to ensure that the health of citizens and the local environment are always prioritised.
- i voted in favour of this report, which aims to update the current directive on environmental impact assessments.
a strengthened eia directive will bring numerous benefits to the environment, human health and the economy.
it is important that we continue to work to ensure that the health of citizens and the local environment are always prioritised.
- this report updates eu legislation on environmental impact assessments (eias) to take account of technological developments.
nevertheless, under the new rules, an eia will be required if a project has a significant effect on land, soil, water and biodiversity and poses a significant threat to health, and governments will have to explain why this does not apply if they decide not to request an eia.
labour meps believe this will make it very hard for governments to refuse eias for fracking projects and, as the proposal also includes a number of other measures that will strengthen the directive and benefit the environment, human health and the economy, we supported the report.
wales will benefit from the knowledge gained through this programme that will support the application of environmental protection schemes, regional and local planning as well as agriculture, transport and tourism.
this programme will provide an earth observation system by using satellites to provide information on the environment.
in the meantime, we must concentrate on building comprehensive political dialogues with all the eastern partnership countries across a broad spectrum, encompassing everything from energy security to future visa liberalisation.
we also need to make sure that we do not put disproportionate burdens on businesses, which is why i welcome the focus on critical areas of infrastructure: health, transport, finance and energy.
i welcome the introduction of a common charger, which will simplify the use of radio equipment as well as reducing unnecessary waste and cost to consumers.
each year, incredibly, the eu throws away 6[nbsp ]000 tonnes of mobile phone chargers, and when i think about this i wonder how much we – parliament and the offices that many of us use – are contributing to that waste, and not from our own choice.
by reducing the number of obsolete phone accessories we will be able to cut down on the amount of electronic waste.
therefore this report is a success not only for the single market and consumers but also for cutting waste and protecting the environment.
that might not be sustainable, and then we could suffer.
yes indeed, the sun shines brightest in the poorest parts of the world, and yet they are not harnessing that energy that comes from the sun.
what we have to do is to create a climate where a village could buy and set up a small mini-hydro.
i see benefits to a country that can harness the energy and enterprise of those who are prepared to cross half the world and make new lives.
i welcome parliament’s position, which states that the directive should focus on key areas such energy, transport, health and the financial sector.
therefore i voted in favour of this report because not only is it a success for the single market and consumers but for cutting waste and for protecting the environment too.
labour meps backed the creation of a europe-wide common phone charger, which will make life easier for consumers and cut electrical waste.
i am however, disappointed that tory meps voted against the proposal, which will save consumers money and will help save the environment.
i also agree that spending on the digital agenda, renewable energy and ict is extremely important.
often we see that people who have a piece of land to call their own are far better able to build sustainable livelihoods than those permanently beholden to often unscrupulous landlords.
let us also mention the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, who did a fantastic job too.
we have an emissions trading scheme which has been introduced by the commission which works, which can demonstrate leadership and which we should be supporting.
one mitigates environmental impact by advances in technology, implementing the single european sky and building capacity.
– mr president, i wonder if the honourable lady would tell us whether she accepts that climate change presents a real threat to humanity, as her government believes.
if she does, exactly what measures does she think the european union should be taking to combat global warming?
– there are many measures already in place on global warming.
– well i do not want to spoil the happy atmosphere, but it is also true that the uk appointed the current holder of the post of high representative and, as we have heard in the first 20 minutes of self-indulgence with which this debate was opened, that was a complete waste.
what a waste of an appointment and what a waste of five years.
- the proposals to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles passed will undoubtedly ensure a higher level of health and environmental protection.
research by the european environment agency has shown that the persistent exposure to high levels of traffic noise, whether through a daily commute to work or living beside a busy high street, can prove physically and mentally draining, even contributing to cardiovascular and other diseases.
i consider this a classic example of european compromise which may not satisfy all parties, but it does both reduce the harmful effects of noise pollution while not causing a loss of competitiveness for the european automotive industry.
- this proposal, agreed among the institutions, puts in place a number of provisions to protect public health and the environment by reducing the sound level of motor vehicles.
- traffic noise is a widespread environmental problem in the eu and i support this report, which sets out targets to reduce the noise level for vehicles by 2021. the extensive negotiations on this report have resulted in less ambitious targets than initially hoped for and i am disappointed that the opportunity has been missed to improve the well-being of eu citizens through this report.
in light of this, i opted to vote in favour of this report on ‘european environmental economic accounts’.
- illegal logging is a major environmental problem and the eu’s efforts to combat it constitute important work.
- this report establishes a licensing scheme for ‘forest law enforcement, governance and tradeʼ (flegt) which should prove key in addressing the issue of illegal logging and associated trade and which will be a positive step forwards in the import of sustainable timber and timber products.
investing in our health research infrastructure is crucial to ensuring that the quality of patient services, and processes used to prevent, diagnose and treat disease, continues to improve in a medical environment with many challenges.
- i am a strong supporter of the nuclear energy sector and understand the importance of ensuring the safety of our nuclear facilities.
nevertheless, the industry has the same responsibilities as others to reduce carbon emissions and i could not support this report.
- the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to seek to end the emissions trading scheme exemption for non-european airlines defies common sense, and potentially puts the 6[nbsp ]000 jobs at airbus’s wing assembly manufacturing plant in wales at risk.
i was pleased the amendment in plenary to retable the original trilogue agreement, and thus reject the position agreed to by the environment committee, was passed.
such waste cannot be justified.
this is a very good example of european duplication and waste, though one that still falls short of the two seats of this parliament.
the bad result is the lost opportunity to tie greenhouse gas emissions and pollution emissions to the alternative fuels.
there is no reference to renewable energies or to public transport.
we need to remember that we started off by trying to reduce emissions, but that does not really seem to feature in the ambition of this report.
mr president, the recent peak of air pollution in the west midlands in the united kingdom has shown that much more needs to be done to tackle air pollution.
it would give the right signal to car manufacturers that we are encouraging the use of low-carbon vehicles and that their investments are worth making.
and it would give the right signal to european citizens that we take the issues of air pollution and climate change seriously.
- madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work on my report and i would also like to welcome this evening’s joint debate, which is in conjunction with the committee on industry, research and energy resolution on the commission top ten initiative, which i think really complements my report.
i believe all of us here can agree that in order to address unemployment levels in europe we need to look at new, innovative ways in which the eu can contribute to creating an environment that supports businesses and gives them confidence to invest and grow.
we must create the right regulatory environment, one that will protect workers but at the same time will allow businesses to grow, innovate and ultimately create jobs here in europe.
applying the “think small first” principle to labour market policies is therefore essential.’ so my report on creating a hospitable environment for business covers a number of areas.
i hope that colleagues will support this report as an important step forward to creating a more hospitable environment for job creation in europe and i look forward to the debate ahead.
mr president, the current economic climate demands that we look carefully at how best we can create jobs and growth.
this report makes a significant contribution to this debate by focusing on the importance of entrepreneurship – something which i myself have been advocating should play a bigger role in education for at least two decades – and also creating the right climate for smes, notably by looking closely at the regulatory burden which we impose upon them.
it was through his work in america – particularly his efforts in national parks, the protection of redwood forests and his founding of the world-renowned sierra club, which he wrote and spoke about – that most importantly he inspired people to take care of and have responsibility for their environment.
john muir knew that, if we do not protect our environment today, we will lose it for ever.
it is a disgrace that the conservatives in this house deleted a paragraph in this report on energy poverty, at a time when our citizens want to see us address these critical issues.
on a positive note, i welcome more transparency in energy tariffs and hope that we will see energy companies address transparency with clearer and more comprehensive consumer information on pricing.
- this report includes recommendations to enhance consumer protection in utility services, which cover energy and the digital sector to parcel delivery.
- i supported this report, which calls for greater transparency in energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services and increased protection for consumers.
many of my constituents in wales are struggling with rising energy prices and enhanced consumer information and the transparency of tariffs is welcomed.
my constituents in wales are concerned about climate change and one way we can reduce the impact we have on the climate is to cut carbon emissions from cars.
eu-wide action is vital in our fight against climate change and we must make sure it is as easy as possible for member states to work together.
more than 90% of the energy used in transport comes from crude oil and i support the targets set out in this legislation.
it will also lead to greater investment in sustainable vehicles and alternative fuel infrastructures, which will encourage sustainable growth and the creation of jobs.
- i voted in favour of this report as it contains proposals for safety and efficiency improvements to lorry design that are important for the road safety of pedestrians and cyclists, as well as for savings on co2 and other emissions and efficient fuel use.
this directive will not only make roads safer for eu citizens, but will also contribute to reducing climate change.
besides being a threat to road safety due to their dimensions, the prohibition of mega trucks, which are responsible for 26% of road-transport co2 emissions, will help the eu to reach its target of reducing greenhouse gases by 20% by 2020 and 60% by 2050.
in writing.
the accommodation of aerodynamic flaps at the back of trailers will also reduce drag and emissions.
we live in a time of substantial congestion and climate change targets; this report works to meet the challenges presented by both.
all in all, this report brings economic, environmental and safety benefits to drivers, pedestrians and other road users and adheres to changing market trends across the eu.
the consumer is already adequately covered by existing legislation and by common law, so it would be better to focus energy on improving enforcement rather than fiddling with the rules to create unnecessary harmonisation for its own sake.
this report will also benefit eu society in general as where applicable, investors will also be informed whether their investment will contribute to any projects with environmental or social aims.
several amendments that my group submitted on the need to strengthen ethical review committees and the regulatory environment, as well as the need to promote equitable and universal coverage of quality health services, were adopted.
environmental information, for instance, will have to include greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution and the use of renewable energy.
guidelines for companies on how to report under the new reform, including on water use, land use, greenhouse gas emissions and use of materials, are expected from the commission within the next two years.
- this aim of this report is to establish the new disclosure rules applicable to companies on non-financial information, such as policies around diversity, their environmental impact and efforts made to tackle corruption.
- i abstained on this report as despite containing some positive aspects on environmental research, none of the amendments that my group had submitted which would guarantee sustainability were adopted.
the welsh government has a duty to consider sustainability in all its actions.
we must fight climate change, and one way of doing this is ensuring that the hydrogen we use comes from renewable sources.
wales has huge potential for the development of renewable energy.
- drawn up with a view to parliament reviewing the mff process and its outcome, this report seeks to put on the record parliament’s version of events, drawing political and institutional lessons while serving as a basis for the preparation of future negotiations, in particular the mid-term review as foreseen in the mff regulation by 2017. more specifically, while acknowledging the fiscal restraints of the member states, who are undertaking efforts to bring their budgets to a more sustainable level, the report expresses its disappointment that parliament was unable to revise upwards the figures agreed by the heads of state and government while lamenting what it sees as inadequate progress towards a new system of own resources.
the cooperation that this network facilitates will contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 aims for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the recycling industry actually purchases waste plastic, thereby ensuring that there is a real incentive not to dump or fly-tip this material.
the advent of degradable plastic is a significant breakthrough and is the obvious solution to the problem of waste plastic that becomes contaminated by soil and vegetative matter.
meanwhile large stocks of plastic waste will accumulate because the recyclers cannot trust its provenance, but only a proportion of these stocks will actually degrade.
the european union is not just about the big issues of fighting climate change, fighting crime, boosting the economy, but we also have to work together to get a better deal for our citizens on things like solving problems such as difficulties in re-registering cars.
- i voted in favour of this report which aims to respond effectively to pollution caused by ships and oil and gas installations.
in wales we are very proud of our coastline and in order to protect it there must be proper mechanisms in place because we also have major energy installations.
this agency is vital in coordinating pan-eu action in responding to maritime pollution, which can affect beaches and sea around scotland.
- the proposed regulation lays down the detailed arrangements for the financial contribution of the union to the budget of emsa for the implementation of the new tasks assigned to it in the field of responding to pollution caused by ships and offshore oil and gas installations.
- i have voted in favour of this agreement which ensures that the european maritime safety agency (emsa) has sufficient funding to carry out its new enlarged responsibilities, responding to marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations as well as vessels.
this agreement will be of great help to those states affected by marine pollution as these can now request the assistance of emsa’s anti-pollution vessels to clean up their coastlines.
third countries sharing a regional sea basin with the union are also included on the scope of the emsa action for marine pollution response, promoting a safer environment beyond the shores of eu countries.
central to this is the need to create the right regulatory environment, by removing unnecessary barriers which impose disproportionate costs on businesses and inhibit their ability to grow, create jobs and compete globally.
- i voted in favour of this report, which proposes a hospitable environment for enterprises, businesses and start-ups to create jobs.
the report aims to create the right environment for job creation, which will help to reach the eu2020 target of having 75[nbsp ]% of eu citizens in active employment by 2020. this report highlights a number of key points such as the concept that businesses – in particular smes and microenterprises – must be equipped with the knowledge and knowhow on how to access eu support through, for example, one-stop shops and web portals.
it is vital that we protect our biodiversity.
it is estimated that the revenue lost through damage to local biodiversity and the resulting decrease in the production of foods and other natural materials costs wales about gbp[nbsp ]7[nbsp ]billion.
- the convention on international trade in endangered species (cites) enables the eu and its member states to work with 151 countries to protect endangered species of plants and animals by restricting and monitoring international trade in them to ensure that trade is carried out in a sustainable way.
the new protocol tallies with the objectives of the fpas, making it possible to maintain a european presence in distant-water fisheries and retain fishing opportunities in this part of the indian ocean, contributing to sustainable fishing and boosting cooperation between the eu and seychelles.
this report also recognizes the important role the eu could play in promoting sustainable fisheries management and good governance in third countries and calls on the eu to achieve a more concerted and coherent policy.
- this new framework agreement will help enhance cooperation in a wide range of areas of mutual interest such as trade, the environment, counter-terrorism, and organised crime between korea and the eu.
- it is the environmental noise directive that helps member states coordinate maximum noise levels for those living near airports.
the number of whales, dolphins and porpoises has decreased dramatically, with thousands dying every year, including via habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution.
however the text by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety included prescriptive and disproportionate requirements which i was unable to support.
with the environmental damage caused by plastic bags, for example to marine animals in the north sea, it is important that we have ambitious targets to tackle the problem.
- i voted in favour of these proposals because plastic bags are incredibly damaging to the environment and should be discouraged.
it is also an eu-wide issue; because they take so long to decompose waste bags can cross borders and enter water systems.
- labour meps today supported ambitious measures to crack down on plastic-bag waste across europe.
- the proposal includes a series of controversial measures: it introduced an eu-wide reduction target of at least 80% to be achieved within two years; sets an eu price for carrier bags; and empowers the commission to adopt delegated acts to identify the criteria for resourcing bio-based materials in a sustainable manner; phased out oxo-biodegradable plastics from packaging materials; and proposed substituting hazardous substances for packaging as a whole.
we need urgent action to decrease our co2 emissions from sectors in order to fight climate change.
the one wales government set up a climate commision to ensure wales played its full part and set greenhouse gas reduction targets.
- i prefer to see the adoption of measures to address greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from ships at a global level through the international maritime organization (imo), because international shipping is a global industry and the global application and implementation of imo standards promotes a level playing field, provides clarity of regulatory approach and removes regional obstacles to fair trade.
that is without the revenue lost through damage to local biodiversity and the resulting decrease in the production of foods and other natural materials.
- invasive alien species (ias) are transported by means of human action outside of their natural range and across ecological barriers, and then survive, reproduce and spread, with serious ecological, economic and social consequences.
ias are cited as a major cause of biodiversity loss and species extinction and can cause health problems, damage infrastructure, undermine forestry and cause agricultural losses; indeed ias are estimated to cost the union at least eur[nbsp ]12 billion per year.
it is vital that we correctly implement the kyoto protocol to ensure the fight against climate change is effective in wales and globally.
- the unfccc climate change conference in doha, qatar, in december 2012 adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol establishing a second commitment period running from 1[nbsp ]january 2013 to 31 december 2020. ratification of this second commitment period by the eu and its member states is necessary well in advance of the unfccc conference in paris in 2015 if the new global agreement expected to be finalised there is to be successful.
– you mentioned in your remarks that we should look at the impact of climate change on flooding.
- i voted in favour of this report which calls for obligatory testing of marine equipment if evidence is presented that a risk to maritime safety, environment or health exists.
it aims to promote more sustainable fishing, support coastal communities in economic diversification, finance projects in coastal communities, and make it easier to access financing.
conservatives fought hard to ensure the fund is used fairly, achieves greater sustainability, and is not used to help large fishing nations subsidise their fleets and build bigger boats.
the emff aid will help make eu fisheries more sustainable and also boost the fishing sector as it will help fishermen to observe the discard ban, e.g.
the courts are clear on this, unhcr has raised questions about the changes going on in greece, but i think we also have some issues here in terms of the follow-up to the stockholm programme, in what we are doing that actually helps make returns sustainable in terms of preparation, prospects and indeed follow-up, to find out what actually does happen to people on return.
i would like to stress the importance of including a chapter on sustainable development, with binding clauses, as this is a cornerstone of european trade policy.
regarding labour rights: labour issues are covered in the trade and sustainable development chapter of the free trade agreement in the present state of this text which is being negotiated and our negotiators have been able to agree on robust language on matters related to the ilo.
vietnam prefers to cover the provisions in the trade and sustainable development chapter, but we keep pushing through our negotiators to have it in the chapter on sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
since the joint declaration signed in 1991, ties between the eu and japan have deepened and cooperation now extends to almost every conceivable area from political, economic and sectoral specific matters – and some of these specific matters are extremely important, such as nuclear safety, climate change, research and innovation, and people-to-people exchanges.
- the uk strongly supports implementation of maritime spatial planning (msp) and integrated coastal management (icm) as they contribute to more effective management of marine activities and sustainable use of marine resources.
the greatest is climate change, a huge threat to the way of life of future generations.
- this report considers future economic, environmental, scientific and cultural cooperation, shared human rights values, and ongoing political and regional dialogue.
- i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for both parties to negotiate a balanced outcome, to foster open and fair competition between public and private market participants, to eliminate both tariffs and non-tariff barriers, to implement respect for a variety of intellectual property rights, and to commit to internationally shared values and standards in the area of human rights, labour rights and environmental standards.
let us turn those ideas from the european council statement – of exploiting the single market, of creating a climate of entrepreneurship, of opening trade, of enhancing energy security and efficiency, of supporting our neighbourhood and of cutting bureaucracy – let us turn those ideas into the building blocks for reform.
let us now turn to two vital political questions: the mediterranean and energy.
turning to energy policy, we should seek to reduce our over-dependence on regimes which do not share our values, whether in the middle east or russia.
let us look at the energy market and together identify and remove blockages in it; create incentives for consumers to promote energy efficiency, and ensure investment in energy security, new energy sources and more interconnectors to reduce our dependence on regimes in the middle east and russia.
you talked about the need for a common energy policy.
do you not realise that much of europe is dependent on russian gas for winter warmth and that most of the constituents i represent are already struggling to pay their energy bills each month, without the added cost of increased wholesale prices?
these effects could be far-reaching and damaging – as we have heard from others – in terms of public services, food quality, the environment, health and much more.
so our job must be to create an environment where businesses can grow and can create jobs, and businesses will only create more jobs and recruit more people if the economic environment encourages growth: if they can rely on a qualified workforce, if labour markets are sufficiently flexible, if labour costs, including wages, are in line with productivity, if social protection systems make work more attractive, and if regulation is proportionate and evidence-based.
- according to the commission convergence report 2014 (com(2014)0324) and the european central bank convergence report of june 2014, lithuania now complies with the legal and economic preconditions for adoption of the euro laid down in article 140 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and protocol no 13 on the convergence criteria, namely: legal compatibility with the treaty, price stability, sound and sustainable public finances, durability of convergence, and exchange rate stability.
our young people need sustainable, quality jobs and we need to give them the tools.
europe, including, i have to say, my own country, has for too long relied on the dominance of russian energy and finance.
we must now look to diversify away from these dependencies and to have a coordinated eu plan for external energy security, just as we have successfully united the entire european union in the support of tough economic sanctions against russia for its blatant acts of aggression.
i firmly believe that it is the interests of citizens from both sides that we make this strong commitment to supporting ukraine in its effort to implement deep-rooted and sustainable economic and political reform while cooperating closely on security across the region.
it also puts a strong emphasis on the values and principles of: democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, the market economy and sustainable development.
– mr president, although the climate change summit next week in new york is not part of the unfccc negotiations – not part of the process that we have all got so used to – it is an important gathering which, arguably, may be actually more important than these set-piece cop events, which are often seen by the public as very inflexible, rather frenzied and a little unintelligible.
in the ecr, we recognise that developed countries need to take a leading role in the reduction of emissions, but we have always questioned the sense of forging too far ahead too quickly with unilateral action.
that action may disadvantage the eu economy without any real impact on greenhouse gas emissions.
the us government’s climate power plan is a real step forward, and i really do welcome that this summer.
china – that other giant economic power – is committed to implementing a carbon market by 2020, along with tangible targets for emissions reductions.
as i understand it, the climate summit will concentrate on highlighting the benefits of taking action, not just the cataclysmic armageddon-style warnings, but looking at the real positives for the future of climate action.
we just need to look at the energy market as an example of where those two issues have become juxtaposed, i think to the benefit of us all.
as commissioner hedegaard has said, we do need some momentum because it really is ‘make your mind up time’ on climate change in the next 15 months.
i agree with everybody here who said that we need to go with a credible eu package – a package on our emissions for 2030, but also, as the commissioner has said, on our finances.
those people’s lives have changed already because of climate change.
their children are going hungry now because of climate change.
their daughters were being married off younger nine years ago because of climate change.
it was just before gleneagles, and we talked about ‘make poverty history’ but we will never make poverty history unless we tackle climate change.
lastly, i want to add my voice to everybody here who has spoken about the work of connie hedegaard and her commitment to climate change in the past five years.
energy commissioner günther oettinger said that europe cannot afford a unilateral climate policy.
former industry commissioner antonio tajani said that we are creating an industrial massacre in europe with energy prices.
our energy prices are driving industry, jobs and investment out of the eu altogether, often to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards.
we are damaging our economies and arguably increasing global emissions at the same time.
our first priority in lima must be to ensure that the eu is no longer disadvantaged in terms of energy prices compared with our major competitors.
emissions will rise whatever we do.
– well, i do not know the details of energy prices in your country, but i do know that europe as a whole has the most expensive energy prices of any major economic area.
we also believe that the sustainable development chapter in ceta could be improved.
i think we also need to have programmes and encouragement for young people to become entrepreneurs, to use their great energy and enthusiasm, and to provide mentors to help them to create their own businesses, become entrepreneurs and, in turn, employ people themselves.
the eu tells us that we must let it regulate our emissions from our factories or the world will end.
madam president, i join other members in recognising that bangladesh has made incredible progress on the millennium development goals, and also in recognising that the devastating impact of the recent floods in the country is simply one demonstration of how bangladesh is so vulnerable – the most vulnerable country in the world – to the impact of climate change.
in the resolution we not only strongly condemn attacks against civilian targets and the use of execution and sexual violence in the conflict but also call for a sustainable political solution involving all the components of iraqi society and addressing their legitimate grievances.
– mr president, i want to talk about some of the extreme weather events that we expect to see as a result of climate change.
thirdly, we must make explicit the link between flooding and climate change and be reminded by flooding incidents across europe of the urgent need to agree meaningful carbon-dioxide reductions at the cop 21 negotiations in paris next year.
– i welcome this statement on tackling flooding in europe, and congratulate the commission on promoting better options for addressing this critical issue, including green infrastructure, natural water-retention measures and sustainable urban drainage.
despite the wettest winter ever in the united kingdom last year, our government is failing to allocate the necessary resources to deal with increased flood risk as a result of climate change.
in contrast, budgets have been slashed and environment agency staff numbers reduced.
meanwhile, the uk government has cut the budget of our environment agency, thereby significantly straining its ability to undertake decent flood risk management.
given that expert evidence indicates that the increased occurrence of storms causing these floods is linked to climate change, a crucial part of the eu response should moreover consist in increasing efforts to tackle greenhouse gas emissions and other forms of pollution, and setting ambitions high for next year’s climate conference in paris.
as chair of the committee on development, i will limit myself to the issues in west africa and leave the issues concerning europe to my colleagues from the committee on the environment.
i think that is why, for us, it is also important to integrate not only the social dimension, but also the ecological dimension in our response because otherwise we are not really dealing with the problem in the round.
i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
decrease in demand in steel in the automotive and construction sectors in the eu as a consequence of the economic crisis and a relative increase of production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.)
i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
these changed the political agenda and consumed much time and energy.
instead of environmental targets, ask companies what makes them greener and more environmentally friendly.
– mr president, we welcome the fact that the european council will consider climate and energy policies alongside economic recovery.
a healthy economy needs low-cost energy.
since 2005, energy prices in europe have risen by 38%.
climate and energy policy must be for the long term.
if we are to achieve a workable policy, it is time to put aside this ideological debate between whether or not you agree with one group of climate scientists or another group of climate scientists.
surely we can agree on less pollution.
surely we can agree on less waste in landfill.
we can agree on more renewable energy.
we can agree on more energy efficiency and more conservation, and we can agree on more energy security.
but we have to take a step back and ask the fundamental question: in a modern, digital economy, with high-speed rail and electric cars, what will provide that energy?
wave energy?
if not, we will have an energy policy that might emit less co2, but we will also have power cuts, companies moving production outside the eu and even higher levels of unemployment.
so surely here the key is pragmatism, not setting climate targets which are unreachable and which drive industry out of the eu.
let us not forget that the eu by 2030 will only account for 4.5% of global emissions.
it might well be found in someone’s garage by the bill gates or the steve jobs of the energy world.
the market will decide which will provide us with the sustainable energy for the future.
i have noted what you were saying about the triple lock, and your agenda going further for co2 emissions reduction, etc., but what would you say to those pensioners, who this winter will be so cold that many of them might even die?
finally, everything that you have heard on climate change is extremely important.
we also know that the online environment is critical to sme growth markets, where reaching 500 million eu customers has huge potential.
our group will ask: did the juncker commission tackle the important issues of energy security and the digital single market and pursue open trade; and did the juncker commission face up to the challenges of the future rather than looking back to the past?
we like the fact that you are looking to cut red tape and to complete the digital single market; and that you are looking at energy, the economy and competitiveness.
mr juncker, i am sure you are aware of the magnitude of the job facing your commission: with a europe still struggling to create jobs and growth; a europe still faced with the consequences of climate change; a europe where people are turning their backs on mainstream politics in favour of the extremes.
tackle excessively high energy prices across the eu.
in particular i, along with my colleagues in the s&d group, had serious concerns about the suitability of mr cañete for the position of commissioner responsible for climate action and energy.
he agreed to our groupʼs request to add responsibility for sustainable development to the portfolio of the first vice-president, mr timmermans.
it was made clear that this includes responsibility for coordinating policy on climate action and energy.
- labour meps voted today for the eu to do more of what it is good at, working collectively to deliver real benefits and developments in technology, such as funding for the low carbon vehicle technology project at the university of warwick and european bioenergy research institute at aston university – delivering cutting edge research to local industry.
– i voted in favour of the de backer report and want us to get the balance right during the process to ensure social and environmental indicators are realised.
that gives it a degree of operational independence, an energy independence which needs to be curtailed.
mr president, carbon capture and storage (ccs) can reduce the amount of co2 in the atmosphere, thereby tackling climate change.
ccs can capture carbon emissions from the production of steel, cement and fertiliser.
in this way we can buy the time we need to transition to renewable energy.
i therefore strongly call on the council meeting this week to make carbon capture and storage a vital, intrinsic and viable component of our new eu 2030 climate and energy action framework.
carbon capture and storage: capturing to store, storing to save, saving to prosper.
the simple act of putting the clocks forward one hour during the lighter months reduces energy consumption, increases tourism and leisure potential and reduces overall accident rates.
inland waterway transport is an important economic sector within which around 10 000 companies across the european union operate, and it is generally quiet and energy-efficient.
and in answer to the colleague over there, it is absolutely not true that eu money is a waste.
tackling the causes of conflict to build a sustainable peace and a just society takes long-term focused and sustained effort.
once fully implemented, the agreement will provide for better consumer protection and food safety, improved access to health services, with more diverse and efficient use of energy resources and renewables, and lower energy bills.
i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
the dcfta includes several provisions aimed at reforming the republic of moldova’s trade legislation and trade-related policies in line with, and on the basis of, the eu acquis, which will provide for the modernisation of the country’s economy and an improved and more predictable business environment, including for small and medium-sized enterprises.
this will provide for the modernisation of the economy, anchoring of eu investment in the country, and better and more predictable policy environment.
– i voted in support of the recommendation by petras auštrevičius on the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
we will have to keep this important lesson in mind if we want to be successful in helping to bring about sustainable peace.
mr president, as this parliament’s long-standing rapporteur on corporate responsibility, i had the huge privilege of being part of the european delegation at the rio+20 summit for sustainable development and there, with many others, put the argument about the green economy – that capital accounting should be reflected in national economic accounts, something which was pioneered by the united nations environment programme – and advanced the argument, in common with many from within the business community, that that should apply to companies as well in terms of sustainability reporting within their own accounts.
the global corporate sustainability reporting coalition pushed this agenda.
we got paragraph 47, encouraging sustainablity reporting, but now i see the outcome document of the open working group in what is prepared for next year in the un, and it simply, once again, says: encourage sustainability reporting by business.
we cannot get sustainable development without business itself being sustainable.
– madam president, today we are looking at the employment and social aspects of the eu 2020 strategy, but our resolution also reminds us that the strategy is designed to cover three elements: the smart, the sustainable and the inclusive.
it is not enough for us to end the biting austerity measures – which have had such a destructive effect on so many lives – if we are not engaged in a socially-just transition which is going to tackle inequality and move us towards a low-carbon economy, which is also part of the eu 2020 strategy.
the proposal points out that the rail protocol is also consistent with the objective of supporting the shift to greener and more sustainable modes of transport.
tackling inequality, combating tax dodging, and protecting the environment are key pillars in this battle and must be at the heart of these new goals.
this communication calls for tackling issues of global concern such as poverty, health, food security, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, sustainable energy, decent work, inclusive and sustainable growth, inequality, sustainable consumption and production, biodiversity, land degradation and sea and oceans.
it expresses disappointment in the economic focus of the strategy, and calls for policies to aim for economic growth with sustainable benefits that are spread throughout society.
i am pleased to note that the uk will contribute gbp 720 million pounds to the green climate fund.
equally important, as we head towards the paris cop meeting, will be the setting of clear and ambitious national contributions to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the headline agreement by eu leaders of a binding target to reduce headline emissions by 40% from 1990 levels is important, as is the statement by the british prime minister that this must represent a floor, not a ceiling.
with the recent climate change commitments of the us and china, we are no longer alone.
the key reason for that is the eye-watering energy prices in europe, which are a huge disincentive to investment.
these high energy prices, mr president, are not an act of god or of world markets; they are the direct results of policy decisions which we have taken here in this house.
our green policies are forcing energy-intensive business out of europe altogether, taking their jobs and their investment with them.
often they go to jurisdictions with lower environmental standards, so arguably we could be increasing global emissions at the same time.
we are proposing a usd 10 billion fund to assist developing countries on climate issues, but my constituents in the uk are already facing eye-watering energy prices, plant closures and job losses for your green policies.
they will be appalled that we are asking them to sacrifice even more on the altar of climate alarmism.
mr president, slowly but surely we are seeing a consensus emerging in the world that human activity is responsible for climate change, in spite of some of the oddball conspiracy theories we have heard this morning.
that includes when we work on air quality, linking that to climate policy and linking development policy very clearly to climate policy as well.
we know that the effects of climate change will have a disproportionate effect on developing countries, because their infrastructures are far less able to cope with its effects.
we must have a deal in paris that provides support for developing countries for sustainable growth so that new areas of economic growth are not dependent on mechanisms that degrade the environment.
when we are talking about these cop resolutions, one comes after another with monotonous regularity, but i really do believe that we have reached a key stage here in our pursuit of a new global deal to arrest climate change.
i would like to say: let us concentrate on achieving that end, particularly agreeing the draft elements of our text, and agreeing the steps to strengthen the un climate regime covering rules, mechanisms, reporting and implementation.
mr president, i want to talk about the development aspects of climate change.
commissioner and mr gozi, i have a question for you, which is that we all know that climate change is already a problem for developing countries – i am very pleased we had the meeting in berlin last week where we made progress on climate finance – and we have all talked about cop 2021 this morning, but before we get to paris – between now and lima and paris – we have got the sdg meeting at the un general assembly next september, and climate and sustainability will be a big part of that agenda as well.
what process has it set in place to make sure the two things make sense, are linked together and really deliver something on climate change?
with the 2013 framework adopted, the european union is in an excellent position not only to be a strong international voice but also to address the european climate and energy challenges.
we will continue scaling up climate finance, as we have done so far, and i hope we will also be able to adopt the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol shortly.
i have been asked a very specific question about the green climate fund (gcf) by mr eickhout.
it will not therefore be possible to contribute to it from the european union budget for accountability reasons, because european union spending from the european union budget cannot be undertaken if the european union is not involved in decisions made by the green climate fund.
delivering the 2015 agreement in paris needs commitment from all countries in order to effectively combat dangerous climate change.
that's why you've repeatedly stressed the importance of the us-china announcement: the eu and the us are responsible for 43% of global emissions and have for the first time jointly announced a commitment well before the paris summit.
– if only the most alarmist climate predictions are taken into account, then action will be taken on short-term measures without a proper consideration of the future.
short-term targets lead to the development of the wrong forms of energy.
wind energy may well hit a target, but wind is intermittent and unpredictable and requires significant conventional backup.
investment in research now, and implementation when that research yields benefits, would benefit both the economy and the environment.
– i welcome this resolution and am delighted that parliament is sending a delegation to the lima cop and is putting in so much effort, together with the commission, to ensure that a truly global legally-binding agreement is achieved in paris at the end of 2015. it is imperative to limit global temperature rise to below 2°c, the impact of climate change is real, not only on humans but also on the planetʼs fragile biodiversity.
today the uk environment agency estimates that one sixth of houses in england are at risk of flooding.
but right across the world, not only in the uk, many nations are struggling to cope with the effects of climate change.
this is why i welcome the fact that this resolution reiterates the euʼs and member statesʼ commitment to funding the un green climate fund by 2020. such a fund will help developing countries adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate change.
mr president, global warming is costing the world more than usd 1.2 trillion a year, not to mention the human cost of climate change, which is simply unbelievable.
climate change has increased extreme weather events everywhere, including numerous examples in my region in the west midlands.
the list can go on of events caused by climate change.
that is why i voted in favour of the motion for the resolution on the 2014 climate change conference.
this will be crucial for paving the way towards an ambitious and legally-binding international agreement for climate action, to be agreed in paris next year.
- i cannot support the wording of this resolution, despite believing that we should protect the environment of the world in which we live.
– the effects of climate change cut across societies, economies and every single ecosystem.
it is essential that we strengthen international efforts to mitigate against these effects and next week's climate change conference in lima is an important part of those efforts.
the eu has taken significant steps to reduce carbon emissions but more needs to be done.
my own country, scotland, has set a target to use renewables to generate the equivalent of 100 per cent of our gross annual electricity consumption by 2020. scotland is a relatively small country but efforts such as this are essential if we are to tackle climate change.
- i strongly supported the resolution, as climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat that must be addressed at international level.
the eu must do its utmost at the upcoming un climate summit to ensure that significant progress is made towards achieving a new global climate agreement.
it must remain on the front line and broker the best possible deal for human societies, biodiversity and the planet.
- i voted for this resolution which ʽemphasises that global climate change policies are based on the 1992 un conference on environment and development (unced) and that they are an integral part of the global efforts to promote sustainable development all over the world; stresses that the climate change policies must be seen in this wider context and linked with the follow-up on the rio conference, the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agendaʼ.
– i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in lima as the eu delegation plays a vital role in climate change negotiations.
climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and must thus be addressed at international level by all parties.
i expect the new commission to assume a proactive role in addressing the global climate crisis, including in terms of additional climate financing.
the commission must make it clear that the climate challenge is one of its top strategic priorities and to organise itself in a way which reflects this, at all levels and across all sectors in domestic and external policies and actions.
i am concerned by the extraordinary scale and seriousness of the threats induced by climate change and i fully support participation of the european union in climate change negotiations in lima.
— i voted in favour of this resolution as i believe we need to take climate change seriously and that the eu should remain on the front line to broker the best deal.
the convention has been an extremely important initiative and, as we look to children’s futures, we can see that many of them face a very uncertain future across this globe – whether that be the impact of climate change, experience of conflict or the gross inequalities that exist both within and between countries.
so there is a lot in which we can invest to help give our children better lives – whether that be housing, better health care or the opportunity to play in a healthy environment.
we know those mdgs delivered for children in some areas, and now we need to make sure the new sustainable development goals (sdgs) really deliver for children, and i hope the new commission will put its focus on making sure that happens and that they will deliver a programme for us on children for that negotiation.
we have to ensure that these agreements include an emphasis on fair growth, an emphasis on sustainable development and fair labour standards and tax transparency and strong financial regulation.
we need infrastructure investment, and we need to promote an environment that encourages that investment.
jobs have been lost in teesside and 40% of the cost of that industry lies in the cost of energy.
high energy prices are putting people out of work.
do you accept that something desperately needs to be done about high energy prices in order to save the steel industry?
it is entirely to do with the constriction of regulation and carbon emission controls which are being applied and which are stopping our people from trading fairly.
steel and stainless steel goes really well into a form of energy production – and it is not windmills, folks.
what it is – and i will whisper it – is nuclear: nuclear power stations, a new generation of them, across the uk making cheap, effective clean energy with british and european steel producing them.
the world health organisation assembly endorses the global target for a 40% reduction of the global number of children under five who are stunted by 2025. that means reducing the number of stunted children by more than 70 million – 70 million, colleagues – by 2025. in the stier report on tuesday, our parliament voted with a huge majority to support this objective and goes further, calling for the zero hunger goal to end the scandal of hunger by 2025. it calls for promoting sustainable agriculture and recognising the specific needs of women farmers related to food security.
i think this is not sustainable; i think that ethiopia, which contributes over 80% of the waters of the nile, should have access to the nile, not just for generating electricity but also for agriculture, and for feeding and providing water for its citizens.
these numbers should be a wake-up call for us, not only to seriously step up coordination of humanitarian and development aid but also to look at the broader picture and address the root causes of this unacceptable suffering, like drought caused by climate change and political disruptions.
addressing child and maternal undernutrition requires an integrated approach and coordinated action in a number of sectors which influence undernutrition, such as health, education, agriculture, water, energy access and sanitation, together with the responsible involvement of all stakeholders.
i voted to support this resolution as it calls for the eu to increase the support provided by its development aid programmes for sustainable smallholder, peasant and medium-scale agriculture production which will directly address this concerning reality.
article 191 allows the eu to promote measures at international level to deal with worldwide environmental problems; and what could be more apposite than endangered species?
more than ever, international coordinated action is needed to end illegal wildlife trade, stop poaching and the increasing rate of biodiversity loss.
wildlife trafficking, for example, is not only unethical because of the harm it causes to animals, but is also depriving local communities of sustainable development opportunities, robbing countries of potential tax revenues, deterring investment, providing financing to terrorist groups and enabling the spread of diseases like ebola.
this suggests that the measure is inappropriate for accurate estimating and reporting of the volume, type, origin and lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions of the fuels supplied.
as trade names are generally associated with crude oil types, the tracking of this information will allow for a simpler updating of the eu fossil fuel mix’s carbon intensity in the future.
furthermore, with the fuel quality directive currently not included in the commission’s post-2020 energy and climate framework, the adoption of this objection will only serve to undermine the credibility of the fqd by forcing additional institutional delay on a piece of legislation set to expire in six years.
this is happening because friendly countries like the usa and canada are opening up new fuel sources bringing down energy costs.
they must not compound their errors in the name of fighting climate change, especially as in recent years the climate has stubbornly refused to match the apocalyptic and dystopian forecasts.
and companies will be prevented from being able to report, even voluntarily, on real fuel emissions.
if the eu is serious about leading the global fight against climate change, it must show it is serious about reducing emissions from the transport sector.
concerning recital 44 of the fuel quality directive: how can it possibly be argued that strengthening what is on the table is not part of the objective of the directive, which is about ensuring respect for minimum levels of environmental protection in relation to fuel.
i do not want to see our precious environment ruined by this destructive rail line.
the talent of the people is the biggest resource that we have, and therefore unemployment is the biggest waste.
providing people with an incentive to treat endangered species as a renewable resource can often be a strong ally of the endangered species.
it will also increase the transparency of the eu’s legal status in cites vis-à-vis third parties and help ensure that the eu is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy.
the decision will serve to increase the transparency of the eu’s legal status in the cites vis-à-vis third parties and will help to ensure that the european union is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy.
i believe that the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union is fully able to pursue its objectives under its environmental policy.
as i have stated many times before, i support measures that create growth and jobs, but the globalisation adjustment fund is simply a waste of taxpayers’ money.
yes, we share wider objectives – higher living standards, the environment, opportunity, equality – but we need strong economies to deliver this.
we need to focus on growth, the single market in energy and services, and new public procurement rules should reduce costs and help growth.
you must cut costs and waste from the eu budget and put the eu’s own finances in order.
mr president, like many colleagues i was shocked last week to hear that the commission was proposing to scrap two new environmental laws on clean air and recycling targets which sent out a very negative message to those who expect the eu to take the lead in environmental action.
it will not only be a source of renewable power for generations to come, but also a catalyst for investment in jobs: world leading technology being developed with the real involvement and the support of the local community.
that is the kind of sustainable job-creating investment we really need to see in the future.
air pollution kills 400 000 people every year.
this will send a message to everyone that the eu is no longer interested in promoting progressive environmental health policy.
in a situation when an overhaul of eu waste and recycling laws could potentially generate up to 180 000 new jobs while saving 58 000 lives across europe every year by improving air quality, the decision to withdraw these vital proposals is neither sustainable nor reasonable.
i also wonder whether ‘easier to achieve’ actually means less ambitious and that it will not address today’s problems of air pollution or unemployment.
we will not remain mute in the face of a european agenda based on deregulation and focused solely on the economy, with little or no space left for the concerns of the people and for the environment.
the commission promises a forward looking climate change policy but then withdraws proposals on air pollution.
europe must take a holistic approach on the environment and we will be watching the commission carefully in this area.
there is one point that i would like to raise: two years ago this parliament adopted a resolution asking the countries of the andean community – at that stage particularly colombia and peru – to commit to roadmaps on human rights and environmental protection before agreements were ratified.
now the council will repeat its commitments to addressing europe’s energy challenges, developing the digital single market and concluding bilateral trade agreements.
but we have now voted and we have to be clear that, if we are to achieve a longstanding sustainable peace, all parties to this conflict have to play their role.
then we can truly move towards a sustainable peace between the two states.
it also involves a reduction in the budgetary appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, as well as an increase in the budgetary appropriations for the european ombudsman.
when working people, pensioners and the unemployed are under more financial pressure than ever, the eu budget must be prudent and reduce spending which is not targeted at producing sustainable growth and jobs.
in the south-east of england, eu research funds and european partnerships have produced ground-breaking research, such as the culham centre for fusion energy which is exploring how to deliver carbon-free energy, and the university of kent’s interlink project to improve long-term care for older people.
although labour meps have worked hard with our european colleagues to see increases in the research and development provision (an area that britain is the biggest beneficiary of and which has gone towards projects such as the development of graphene in my region) and i welcome the fact that the eu will do more to meet its international responsibilities for humanitarian aid and development, i cannot support and vote for a budget that sees so much waste of taxpayers’ money on unreformed areas like the common agricultural policy and strasbourg sessions.
we must see a move towards a budget that brings added value for taxpayers and sees investment in sustainable growth that creates jobs and secures the uk’s future as a major global player.
expenses such as the european house of history are unjustified at any time and ludicrous in the current political climate.
tar sands are highly polluting and it is very disappointing to see the european commission bow to oil industry pressure instead of prioritising the climate.
the objectors oppose the draft council directive on the grounds that it is not compatible with the aim and content of the basic instrument due to the methodology proposed in the measure being inappropriate for an accurate estimating and reporting of the volume, type, origin and life cycle greenhouse gas emissions of fuels supplied.
although it is not perfect, the new proposal provides a basic tracking system that will encourage the use of electricity in transport and incentivise oil producers to reduce emissions from highly polluting processes.
yes, we need to ensure that suppliers avoid high-carbon fuels, but we must minimise additional burdens in terms of reporting.
with the commission intent on removing the fqd from its post-2020 energy and climate framework, the adoption of this objection will only serve to undermine the credibility of this directive by forcing an additional institutional delay on a piece of legislation set to expire in six years.
— i supported the resolution objecting to the commission’s proposal, as i believe that it is detrimental to the overall aim of the directive, namely to reduce co2 emissions and move towards a carbon-free energy supply in europe.
mr president, i come from a steel town, middlesbrough, in a region with thousands of jobs based in energy-intensive industries, including steel, which underpin our regional economy.
it was not just a fight to preserve our industrial infrastructure and assets; we need investment in upgrading them and in environmental improvement – this would create jobs in a sustainable industry long into the future – and we need to recognise that we need ultra-low-carbon steel.
i welcome the teesside city deal focussed on building an industrial cluster around carbon capture and storage.
mr president, i strongly believe that our economic recovery is highly dependent on a strong manufacturing industry and that the european steel industry must be a sustainable and profitable part of this.
the commission needs to promote and protect higher social, economic and environmental standards across the eu, particularly working with our social partners.
the commission needs to keep in mind our urgent need to develop a sustainable and decarbonised economy using a suite of options, including carbon capture and storage.
this is why i call on the commission to commit to developing high-quality energy-efficient and innovative products and processes to promote growth and create quality jobs in a joined-up industrial policy.
i recognise that the european steel industry is facing a significant structural crisis, coupled with weak demand and longstanding concern over energy prices.
meanwhile, an additional 200 million people could be displaced due to climate change by 2050, yet some parties in the uk and elsewhere are trying to block the adoption of strong targets to tackle global warming.
this is not only a waste for british tax payers, but also dumps over-subsidised food into african economies, increasing unemployment and poverty.
sustainable fishery is crucial, but changing the wording of a contract after it has already been signed is something credible partners simply do not do.
this scheme is for vulnerable countries which sign, ratify and commit to implementing the 27 core ilo conventions on labour, environmental and human rights standards.
the generalised system of preferences consists of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), charging no duties on imports from beneficiaries for 66 % of all eu tariff lines.
— thanks to today’s vote, the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and georgia has been approved by members.
— thanks to today’s vote, the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the conclusion of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and georgia has been approved by members.