the next item is the debate on the report by chris davies, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the 2013 implementation report: 'development and application of carbon capture and storage technology in europe' (2013/2079 (ini)) (a7-0430/2013).
there are many areas of direct relevance for the european union: biodiversity, of course, but also governance, development, international trade, transnational crime, peace and stability in certain regions, and so on.
the forthcoming communication will serve to identify any gaps which need to be filled and to indicate whether there is added value in bringing the different measures under the umbrella of a single strategy or action plan, and raising their profile beyond traditional environmental circles.
on hunting trophies, the commission is in the process of amending the rules which govern the importation into the european union of hunting trophies of some species – for example, lions – where hunting trophies might represent a threat to their sustainability, given the level of imports in freight.
with this change, the authorities in charge of implementing cites in our member states will have to check whether an import is sustainable before authorising it.
we will not find the answer only from an environmental angle: that is absolutely clear, because we are talking about a major form of organised crime.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we will be at your side to promote a maritime policy that covers everything from the environment to the management of marine areas.
surplus can be had if you don't spend money out of your pocket on health, on education, on your diet, on housing, but that's not sustainable.
the integrated maritime policy you are promoting targets energy sources and transport routes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
when we speak of the homeless, we are talking about the "newly homeless", people of a different profile, family heads who are suddenly condemned to poverty because the consequences of a crisis, such as extreme austerity, unemployment at historically high rates, a sharp decline in wages with rising energy costs, household costs and overtaxation, form a grim reality that threatens to make hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens homeless, under the threat of foreclosures and auctions, if they are unable to meet their obligations, either due to borrowing under previous conditions or to state services.
the next item is the debate on:- question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the recognition of ecological damage in european and international law by matthias groote, corinne lepage, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, gesine meissner, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism and gabriel mato adrover, on behalf of the committee on fisheries (o-000127/2013 - b7-0102/2014) [2013/2878 (rsp)) ]
in writing.
intelligent grids are modernised electricity networks that use analogue or digital technology and communication information to gather information and act in an automated manner to improve the efficiency, reliability, economy and sustainability of electricity generation and distribution.
it is also important that local and regional authorities and citizens are involved in all phases of the design, implementation and conversion of energy networks.
for a future more energy-efficient, europe's regions should strive to become energy producers rather than consumers.
this will be beneficial for all eu strategic objectives, including those linked to the creation and maintenance of jobs and the protection of the environment.
small farms, although they do not make a large contribution to the total agricultural product, are of great importance for the environment and regional cohesion.
it will be in everyone's interest to help the smallest to develop dynamism and entrepreneurship, to become aware of the particularly great environmental challenges of our day and to be facilitated to develop a different type of competition from that associated with economies of scale.
tourism), in a way that upgrades and highlights the environment and cultural heritage of each region; • ensuring that small farms are well informed about good practices and that small-scale production is linked to effective alternative marketing methods.
i voted in favour of the report because such an act is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility in order to identify the needs for investment in energy infrastructure and to achieve the internal energy market.
i voted in favour of the report because it shows that an intelligent grid can be the cornerstone of the vision for a sustainable energy future that includes more renewable energy production, greater energy savings and better and, in particular, local use of locally produced energy.
i voted in favour of the report which focuses on the way energy is produced and consumed in the regions, and in particular on the local and regional implications of the development of smart grids.
the report highlights the opportunities for geographical (or territorial) changes in the energy grid for disadvantaged regions and their potential to transform from consumers to producers of energy.
finally, the report recalls that citizens must be involved in all phases of the design, implementation and conversion of energy networks and stresses the need for active participation of distribution service operators and providers of smart grid technologies.
i voted in favour of the report, as i believe that the european steel industry is the basis for europe's most important industrial value chains, such as the automotive industry, the construction sector, the engineering and electrical equipment industry and renewable energy sources.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
mr president, today the wall street journal had a very interesting article on page 14, entitled ‘the real climate ‘deniers’ are the greens’.
mr president, the ukrainian people are today the victims of an imperialist intervention by the european union and the united states on the one hand and by capitalist russia on the other for zones of influence, control of energy markets and energy supply and transport routes.
the mediterranean is a closed sea basin with very low rates of water renewal and is not suitable for such destructive actions for the environment and coastal areas.
finally, i would ask both the commission and the high representative to exert all possible influence to prevent the destruction of chemical weapons in the international waters off crete and to follow a procedure which is safe for both the environment and people.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
they offer major advantages in transport performance, sustainability and external costs.
aware of the importance of the inland waterway sector and of ensuring a sustainable transport chain, i am concerned about the lack of a stable and specific strategy for the inland waterway sector accompanied by adequate funding.
the commission's green paper and the european parliament's report on the 'eu 2030 climate and energy policy framework' echo the ambitions of the monopolies to create new areas of profitable activity, with renewable energy and 'green technologies' as their main focus, with a focus on climate change.
the debate over the size of the emission reductions, the share of renewable energy, the mandatory or non-mandatory nature of eu policy objectives, the promotion of all or part of them is a fierce one between sectors of capital active in energy-related and energy-related sectors and industries.
competitions within the eu, as well as between the eu and other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist economies for the means of production, control of energy sources and transport routes, can only bring harm to the people.
the condition for energy to be a social good, a lever for satisfying the needs of the people, is that the working people be freed from the domination of the monopolies and the shackles of their imperialist associations, to conquer power and make the monopolies popular property, so that they can enjoy the wealth they produce.
they are demanding even tougher fiscal measures, even more extensive privatizations, opening their markets to greater exploitation of their natural resources, environment and labour by the eu monopolies.
i voted in favour of the report as the biocidal products regulation represents a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation governing biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the next item is the report by mr evžen tošenovský, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on guidelines for trans-european telecommunications networks and repealing decision no 1336/97/ec (com (2013) 0329 - c7-0149/2013 - 2011/0299 (cod)) (a7-0272/2013).
i am afraid that in order to combat the problem of unemployment, it is necessary to focus our attention both on improving the business climate in europe and on the link between the labour market and education.
the eu should make better use of the advantages and opportunities that the outermost regions can offer the union, as in issues such as tackling climate change, research and technology and the union's relations with third countries, these regions are central to the union's development plans and prospects.
the eu should make better use of the advantages and opportunities that the outermost regions can offer the union, as in issues such as tackling climate change, research and technology and the union's relations with third countries, these regions are central to the union's development plans and prospects.
the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the environment. )
on the other hand, russia, as a major energy supplier, has the potential to give ukraine's economy a much better breathing space than the eu is proposing, by simply discounting the price of the energy resources it supplies to ukraine.
mr president, it is a fact that many european countries have been affected by climate change in recent times - from spain, britain, portugal, to greece and italy.
it is also a fact that climate change is evolving.
we have a series of reports from international organizations -- from the intergovernmental panel on climate change report to, earlier, the world bank report and nicholas stern's report -- that show that prevention is the best way to protect both the climate and the economy and the well-being of citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
on the other hand, we have a number of instruments, such as the european solidarity fund, for disasters caused by climate change.
the ecological principle must also be applied to compensate for the damage in a climate-sensitive way.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency.
the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected.
these are the values imposed by the wars and military interventions of the eu, formerly against yugoslavia, more recently in libya, mali, the central african republic, where the eu-usa-nato compete with other imperialist powers for control of the resources, the energy transport routes, the exploitation of the peoples.
the committee condemns the open imperialist intervention of the european union, the united states and nato in ukraine, amid an intensification of the fierce confrontation with capitalist russia over control of its markets, energy and transport routes, which raises the risk of a military conflict with tragic consequences for the peoples of the region.
this proposal is a blow to small farms and businesses, but also to the protection of the environment, biodiversity and food security.
we trade with movements and organizations that fight for environmental protection, biodiversity conservation and food security, we support the right of millions of small farmers, organizations and ordinary citizens to preserve, freely exchange and circulate traditional seeds.
parliament also reached agreement with the council on important issues such as the regional ceilings for the bank's financing activities, greater consideration of environmental standards in the allocation of finance and the need to assess the impact of finance on the development of the country receiving it.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the commission has already taken the initiative in the area of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
this will mean a reduction in environmental costs, but also in economic costs for companies and passengers.
the conflict is about control of energy markets and transmission routes and the dominance of the european union monopolies over their competitors, about the imposition of one part of the ukrainian bourgeoisie at the expense of the other.
i voted against the zanoni report because the revised directive, after negotiations with the member states, represents a setback compared with the much-promised adoption of it by both the committee on petitions and the committee on the environment.
one of the most important points of the revision of the directive that we had achieved, namely the inclusion of shale gas extraction activities in the projects requiring mandatory environmental impact assessment, was abandoned under pressure from the member states.
powerful economic interests involved in major infrastructure projects, public and private, have prevailed at the expense of the environment.
a recent bill in greece multiplies the activities allowed even in natura sites by adding sewage and waste management facilities, even if the project is evaluated negatively, provided that the project is considered to be of significant public interest.
the commission has an obligation to pursue policies that are compatible with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the europe 2020 strategy, the european social acquis, the charter of fundamental rights, the environmental acquis.
the next item on the agenda is a brief presentation of the report by nirj deva on the role of property and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development [2013/2026 (ini) ] (a7-0118/2014).
i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge for the 2012 financial year to the artemis joint undertaking, the main objective of which is to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in various fields of application, in order to enhance european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and applications in society.
i voted in favour of the report on the granting of a discharge for the financial year 2012 to the iter joint undertaking, the main tasks of which are: (i) to provide the euratom contribution to the international energy agency for iter fusion (ii) providing the contribution of euratom to the 'broader vision activities' (supplementary joint fusion research activities) with japan for the rapid realisation of fusion energy and (iii) developing and coordinating a programme of activities to prepare for the construction of a fusion reactor and associated facilities, including the international fusion irradiation facility.
the joint undertaking shall provide the commission with the necessary information to enable it to assess the impact of the union contribution on the union's energy performance.
the purpose of the text we are adopting is to allow more aerodynamic vehicles with better energy efficiency to be introduced on the market, thus contributing to fuel savings and reducing emissions.
the primary objective of the eipmec is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, and measurement technologies to address societal challenges in areas such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy design and implementation.
the next item is the debate on the report by margrete auken, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags (com ((2013) 0761 c7-0392/2013 2013/0371 cod)) (a7-0174/2014)
in writing.
in this sense, cultural goods belong to the people who created them and are an integral part of the natural environment in which they were created.
(applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, it is commonly accepted that the existing legislation on shipments of waste has proved weak in a europe which is increasing rather than reducing the production of hazardous waste, as well as its illegal shipment to third countries.
it is chilling that, according to eurostat, in 2010 the member states of the european union produced, apart from inorganic waste, 927 million tonnes of waste of which 101 million tonnes were hazardous waste, and even more nightmarish, to be transported and disposed of uncontrolled 70 million tonnes of waste per year according to the latest report on the implementation and enforcement of environmental law (impel).
the lax legislation and low costs of waste treatment and disposal in developing countries, as well as the unacceptable hypocrisy of member states in disposing of hazardous waste, have led to an explosive situation.
the eu's eastern partnership strategy aims to penetrate eu monopolies in ukraine and the markets of the countries of the wider region, with the aim of exploiting the energy-producing resources and controlling their transport routes.
fourthly, the horizontal theme of the hellenic presidency has been to redefine and re-launch eu maritime policies in all their aspects, including security, growth and energy.
the strategy promotes eu principles and values, the rule of law, democracy, respect for human rights, energy efficiency and security and a rules-based approach to maritime security, as reflected in the un international law of the sea.
let me tell you that if all the governments made the same effort that we are making at european level to reduce the administrative burden, we could have a much better environment for our citizens and for our smes.
member states can and must play their role too, creating a more growth-friendly environment by cutting red tape, and this is a collective responsibility of the commission, of this parliament and also of the council.
the s&d group is calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the greek government is further privatising the state electricity company as part of the european union's single strategy for liberalising energy, which is accepted by all parties supporting it.
this energy is becoming too expensive for the people, a field of profit for monopolies, the object of competition, interventions and wars, as in ukraine, where the european union, the united states and nato are taking the lead.
it is fighting to abolish all the laws that liberate energy, to make it a cheap commodity for the people.
all the workers' living conditions will deteriorate, increasing the risks to public health and the environment.
madam president, the destruction of syrian chemicals in the mediterranean, off the coast of crete, is a dangerous act with incalculable consequences for the peoples and the environment of the region.
the kke will continue its efforts to strengthen the anti-monopoly and anti-capitalist popular struggle to prevent the environmental destruction of the region of crete and the mediterranean in general, in defence of the life and rights of the people.
in a sea as enclosed as the mediterranean, it could lead to irreversible environmental and social disaster.
the mediterranean is a sea of cross-cultural contact, but it has suffered great environmental damage from a variety of sources.
finally, lithuania has to cope with a somewhat unstable international environment but the most probable scenario is that there will not be a major crisis which could deny the country its successful participation in the euro area.
but it will also be the young people who will be the blood vessels of innovation, the new ideas that will push the frontiers of entrepreneurship, the ones who will support new forms of sustainable development.
we're afraid of the cost, but ultimately we can't avoid it, because the collapse of iraq could lead to an energy crisis that would have enormous costs, it could lead to the strengthening of iran and the escalation of the confrontation with israel, which would also have consequences, it could lead to a new wave of refugees that would be extremely costly, it could even lead to the strengthening of the radical islamists and the destabilization of governments in the arab world.
the eu is planning to deploy its military police force in ukraine to consolidate its position, to ensure the penetration and strengthening of eu monopoly groups, to control the large energy reserves of the region and their transport routes, to gain positions in new markets.
we need responsible and targeted policies that deliver tangible results: - by speeding up the implementation of the youth employment initiative so that eligible member states receive the funds as soon as possible, - by creating sustainable and high-quality jobs, and - by developing an action plan on youth employment and labour market choice and decent income.
the unacceptable resolution of the coalition of monopolies - epp, social democrats, liberals - together with the conservative-reformists and the greens on iraq, provocatively presents as alleged defenders of the rights of the iraqi people, as mediators for their salvation, the forces that have been responsible for years for their overthrow, forces such as the united states which continue to maintain police-military occupation forces in iraq, the eu which has supported the imperialist intervention in the country from the very beginning, with its member states actively participating in the occupation forces, as well as other regional forces that take part in the imperialist competition for the control of resources and energy transportation.
the military exercises of nato, the united states and the european union on ukrainian territory are already proving this, escalating the confrontation with capitalist russia over the sharing of markets, energy resources and territories.
i would like to know, however, to what extent the consequences of any new sanctions have been calculated and weighed, given that, in addition to agricultural products, tourism has also been affected and, at the same time, europe's energy security is at stake.
the agreement, in conjunction with ukraine's acquisition of nuclear energy capacity and the new measures announced by the eu against russia, is also contrary to the interests of russia, which is expected to respond with new countermeasures.
as regards energy, it is not possible, for the sake of political interests, to accept a shift towards dangerous forms of energy (nuclear energy) but towards alternative energy sources and green development.
they use these pretences to control the sources and pathways of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from pollution.
mr president, exactly twenty years ago, the european union's environment directorate sent specific instructions to all the countries of europe to deal with floods, based on the projects which i myself implemented in naxos, so that there would be no floods where these projects are located.
the promotion of climate and energy measures 'with a time horizon of 2030' expresses the aspirations of large economic groups to find new areas of profitability, with renewable energy sources, 'green technologies' etc.
in capitalism, any "energy mix" serves corporate profits, while for ordinary households energy is an inaccessible commodity.
competitions within the eu and with other imperialist centres and powerful capitalist countries for the means of production, control of energy sources and transport routes, increase the risks of a generalised conflict.
mr president, i think that the management of european union money is very good quality and efficient, and i disagree with the british eurosceptics and british anti-europeans who specialize in criticising alleged waste in the european union.
the increase in the budget proposed by the european parliament concerns the financing of research projects in the service of capital, subsidies to monopolies for investments in new profitable sectors such as energy and the digital market.
in addition, for countries with a strong energy sector, it would be appropriate to place more emphasis on the second category of expenditure (natural resources).
the european union strongly condemns turkey's aggressive actions, which constitute an attack on the european union and its citizens, threaten the union's energy security, undermine efforts to find a substantive solution to the cyprus problem and require a review of turkey's accession path.
the eu has also been active in the field of energy, with a number of initiatives in the field of renewable energy.
- we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
- i vote against the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations by creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
- we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
- we oppose the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and its member states on the one hand and moldova on the other, as it would disrupt eu-russia relations, while creating around russia a ring of transatlantic powers.
- i am opposed to the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and its member states on the one hand and moldova on the other, as this would disrupt eu-russia relations, while creating around russia a ring of transatlantic powers.
the conclusion of the agreements with moldova is part of the imperialist plans of the so-called 'eastern partnership', the eu's strategy for its penetration into countries which were former soviet republics and which today are the scene of fierce confrontation between the eu and capitalist russia, with the exploitation of their rich resource-producing, especially energy, resources as the focus.
- we oppose the report as a whole, as the signing of the association agreement between the eu, the european atomic energy community and the member states on the one hand and moldova on the other will disrupt eu-russia relations, creating around russia a strong ring of influence of the transatlantic powers.
the conclusion of the agreements with moldova is part of the imperialist plans of the so-called 'eastern partnership', the eu's strategy for its penetration into countries which were former soviet republics and which today are the scene of fierce confrontation between the eu and capitalist russia, with the exploitation of their rich resource-producing, especially energy, resources as the focus.
it expresses the fierce competition between business groups for control of energy sources and energy transportation.
it expresses the fierce competition between business groups for control of energy sources and energy transportation.
also, at this time, with thousands of europeans homeless and unemployed, the eu must look after its own needs first and not waste money on so-called humanitarian aid, especially since much of this money goes to the armed forces.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i vote in favour of the stier report because poverty eradication and the fight against inequalities, together with sustainable development, should be the main direction of the global development framework after 2015 and because the elimination of inequalities in access to health and education should be the overarching priorities of the post-2015 millennium development goals that this report sets out.
i am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution because employment and the social protection measures it proposes are particularly important objectives in the current economic climate, which is characterised by high inequalities in europe and by social dislocation in greece, where, as a result of the memorandum measures, 3.9 million greeks live below the poverty line (i.e.
the bourgeois political staff, all of them, submitted to the demands of capital, demanded the continuation of the "structural reforms", that is, the working people continue to bleed to create an "attractive environment" for the monopolies, with a hardworking workforce, without labor and social security rights.
the bourgeois political staff, all of them, submitted to the demands of capital, demanded the continuation of the "structural reforms", that is, the working people continue to bleed to create an "attractive environment" for the monopolies, with a hardworking workforce, without labor and social security rights.
the commission has also been pushing a policy towards developing countries which wants the eu to support countries outside its territory financially to reduce their pollution, emissions of harmful gases, etc., while the eu could not even have trade relations with countries which sacrifice the environment on the altar of 'development'.
in addition, we consider it hypocritical that the eu should be concerned with reducing emissions in third countries at a time when the environment in eu member states such as greece is being destroyed by exhaust gas, fog, illegal and legal landfills and fires.
- we all recognize that it exists and we're all witnessing climate change.
we all recognize that this is caused by emissions of carbon dioxide and sulphur dioxide.
the european union should set an example by abolishing conventional energy sources and by exploiting soft and renewable sources.
i am voting against this motion for a resolution because action must be taken on climate change, which is a direct threat to human societies, particularly to the poorest of our fellow men, creates new migratory flows, depletes water resources and destroys the planet's flora.
there is talk of giving money to third countries for development, of giving incentives to energy-intensive large industries to reduce their emissions and, in total, of giving $100 billion to the green climate fund by 2020.
mr president, at the moment certain parliaments in european countries are taking decisions to recognise the palestinian state.
if we add to this the loss of animals, mainly due to man's destruction of forests, pastures, coral reefs and pollution of the seas, which is also man-made, then this number of animals is near the tragic limit.
it's about health and the environment.
but they seem to miss the fact that in european law, in addition to the rules of economic governance, there are also rules of rights - for example the charter of fundamental rights - which are violated through the alleged application of economic governance, which, instead of also leading to debt sustainability, leads to ever more debt and ever more violation of social rights.
finally, let us make real what we promise: sustainable development, social welfare, the fight against unemployment; as a europe of peoples and not of economic size.
‒ i am voting in favour of the eu's accession to cites, as it is a steady step towards ensuring that the european union will be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy, having been until now merely an observer to cites.
‒ the eu's accession to cites will lead it to achieve its environmental policy objectives.
the energy union, the digital single market, free trade with the united states and other restructuring measures open up new areas of profit for businesses and bring new hardship to the people.
a, it is fighting for solutions within the eurozone, with growth, with justice, with sustainable debt, with the rule of law, with a strong welfare state.
how do you ensure that investments will ensure sustainable growth and enhance cohesion?
the threat of a general war is growing on the altar of competition for new energy markets and transport routes.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
i voted against the report because it does not address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared.
this mobilisation is unlikely to address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared.
this mobilisation is unlikely to address in a sustainable way the recent payment shortfalls and the increasing amount of balances to be cleared.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the increase in funds compared with those proposed by the council relates exclusively to the financing of business groups for investments in profitable sectors such as energy, 'green technologies', the digital market, research programmes in the service of capital, strengthening europol, frontex, the eu's external action service, all the eu's repressive mechanisms and political and military instruments for its imperialist interventions.
the increase in funds compared with those proposed by the council concerns exclusively the financing of business groups for investments in profitable sectors such as energy, 'green technologies', the digital market, research programmes in the service of capital, strengthening europol, frontex, the eu's external action service, all the eu's repressive mechanisms and political and military instruments for its imperialist interventions.
i therefore think it is necessary to exhaust all possibilities for reducing energy costs, to reduce the energy cost gap in the member states, and also to ensure that a trade mark for fair steel products made in europe is created and promoted immediately.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the community's energy policy.
the increasing waves of immigration are the result of imperialist interventions to control the sources of wealth and energy, of capital's need for cheap labour.
the increasing waves of immigration are the result of imperialist interventions to control the sources of wealth and energy, of capital's need for cheap labour.
the commission has also been working on the issue of the protection of the environment in the mediterranean, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
i abstained from the vote on the mamikins report on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because i do not consider that the political, geostrategic and economic conditions for the conclusion and subsequent application of the agreement have matured.
i abstained from the vote on the mamikins report on the draft council decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because i do not consider that the political, geostrategic and economic conditions for the conclusion and subsequent application of the agreement have matured.