although i'm on the board of envi and i should be more on the side of the environment, we know the times we live in and it's a victory for reason.
our reporter kramer has reconciled opposing positions, and environmental protection and all the rest, so a compromise has been reached between economic issues and environmental issues.
as we know and as we have heard here before, cars produce more than half of the co2 in the european union and certainly we need to improve the conditions and we need to improve the environmental impact.
last week, at the itre and envi joint committee, we adopted a european climate policy for 2030, in which we set high targets, and i'm sure that the production of these cars will fit into those targets.
madam president, in the context of the economic crisis and the weakening of purchasing power, when both producers and consumers are looking more than usual for savings that often go to the detriment of the environment, a well-balanced political message like this is welcome.
it takes into account the unquestionable need to limit man's harmful impact on his environment, but the real need for the economic viability of such limitations.
it is important to emphasise that the implementation of such facilities requires, in addition to vehicle weight, the control of the level of carbon dioxide emissions in order to exploit the full environmental potential of such provisions, in addition to their economic benefits.
the amended regulation is a good example of how environmental protection and economic development can be reconciled.
in addition, its effective implementation will provide a pathway to help member states that are still above the carbon dioxide emission limit set by the kyoto protocol.
mr. chairman, i want to support this report because i believe it is very important to find solutions to care for the environment and if this technology proves to be safe, by 2020 it could become commercially viable.
the increase in fossil fuel use and industrial production over the last century has resulted in a huge increase in carbon dioxide concentrations, and we know that by mid-2005 there were only three commercial projects, still in the demonstration phase: projects that link co2 capture and geological disposal.
given that almost 80% of the world's energy consumption is related to fossil fuels, it is clear why there is a great interest in this system and the need to reduce the potential co2 emissions in the next 100 years as emission reduction measures or as removal from the atmosphere measures.
mr president, the european parliament fully supports any effort to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gas emissions in conditions of increasingly sensitive climate change.
at the same time, i would stress that without the excess emissions of co2 as the greenhouse gas most responsible, there would be no need for expensive storage technologies.
it is also noted that the use of renewable energy sources must not and cannot be pushed into the background.
member states must remain committed to the objectives of the 2020 strategy, in particular to reducing co2 emissions and increasing the share of renewable energy in gross final consumption.
the example of croatia clearly shows that the emphasis on renewable energy sources is paying off, given that the country has reduced its co2 emissions in recent years.
the commission notes that the average annual energy consumption in the eu is around eur 10 billion, which is a significant increase compared to the average annual energy consumption in the eu.
i also believe that we cannot ask the regions at this point to implement activities to tackle problems such as unemployment, poverty, energy security and demographic change, because many member states, including croatia, are not able to implement them in a quality way.
i am pleased that the report has emphasised several times that the development of a smart specialisation strategy is important not because it is a prerequisite for the use of european funds, but because it ensures long-term and sustainable growth and development for countries or regions.
the results achieved are excellent, not only in terms of quantity, as you yourself have said, but also in terms of the energy that the lithuanian presidency has invested in this six-month mandate.
you managed to fight against some narrow selfish policies, and from the very beginning you set a very ambitious agenda that related to energy security, to financial stability, to reducing unemployment and to promoting continuous economic growth.
finally, i feel the need to express my special thanks to mr agimantas rimkunas and mr vytautas leškevičius for the enthusiasm and enormous energy they have put into their work for the benefit of all the citizens of the european union.
it is necessary for regions to recognise the importance of their differences and to focus their energy on their own qualities and potentials, rather than just passively and often quite counterproductively copying the ideas on which the successes of other regions are based.
the potential exists, innovative ideas do not, and this report establishes a forward-looking instrument that successfully promotes smart and sustainable development.
and this is what must guarantee the sustainability of the union, which is why this kind of networking is an important step towards greater exploitation of potential.
the smart specialisation strategies will create a framework in which all european regions can make better progress, as a broad-based promotion of disconnected, differently developed areas is often not sustainable.
there is also a five-year programme for the sustainable social and economic development of assisted areas which has not been fully implemented since 2009 when it came into force.
− i agree that improving the eu's innovation capacity in a sustainable way is necessary in the context of the recession.
croatia, given the cleanliness and biodiversity of the country, has potential for further growth and development in bio-strategic sectors such as biotechnology, bioenergy, agriculture and water management.
− i welcome the smart specialisation strategy because in times of economic, financial and social crisis there is a need for more innovation and for creating sustainable economic growth.
in order to ensure the consistent implementation of the strategy, the commission will develop a strategy for the promotion of sustainable development in the regions of croatia, which will be based on the following principles: the smart specialisation strategy is a dynamic and long-term process and requires the close linking of research, education, administration and small business actors as well as other regions to become as competitive as possible on the european and global market.
i also believe that we cannot ask the regions at this point to implement activities to tackle problems such as unemployment, poverty, energy security and demographic change because many member states, including croatia, are not able to implement them in a quality way.
mr president, i support the report by mr krahmer on the regulation to determine ways of achieving the 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
these vehicles emit 13,5% of the total co2 emissions in the european union and the proposals made contribute to the achievement of the set greenhouse gas reduction targets of 60% by 2050 and 2020 respectively.
the energy efficiency report for trucks and light commercial vehicles shows a significant increase in energy efficiency in that sector.
the report sets long-term targets for 2020 of 147 g co2 emissions, which will ensure environmental objectives and stability for companies that need time to develop new technologies.
i also think it's a very good system of so-called super credits for the production of vehicles with extremely low emissions below 50 g co2.
− environmental protection is one of the broadest areas of the eu2020 strategy.
the eu2020 joint strategy of all member states sets a clear target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 g/km by 2020. more ambitious co2 reduction targets are feasible, but it is important to steer manufacturers in the right direction to encourage investment in green technologies without compromising competitiveness.
the environmental tax is calculated on the basis of the purchase value of the vehicle and the co2 emissions, which means that cars emitting less than 120 grams of co2 per kilometre are cheaper, those emitting between 120 and 130 grams per kilometre remain at the same or slightly lower price, and those with co2 emissions above 130 grams per kilometre are significantly more expensive.
in conclusion, i would like to point out that setting co2 reduction targets encourages european car manufacturers to innovate technologically, thus not only improving the economy but also saving the environment.
this regulation improves the quality of life of citizens, but also gives the automotive industry an incentive to look for new ways to reduce emissions.
− i supported the report and welcome the efforts of the rapporteur and all those who have sought to find a compromise solution to the environmental and economic challenges.
it suggests that europe will maintain its leadership in the production of environmentally-friendly vehicles, sticking to the target set in 2011. i believe that all those who follow european trends in the field of ecology, and especially those who advocate reducing co2 emissions, have reason to be pleased.
− this report confirms the target of 147 g co2/km from light commercial vehicles, defined as early as 2011, to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by 2020. it's a good thing we didn't change the target under pressure from both the reduction and the increase sides.
in particular, i support the part of the report that recommends incentives for manufacturers producing a light commercial vehicle with specific co2 emissions below 50 g co2/km, as well as the part that would be supported through incentives and eco-innovation.
for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind the climate challenges we face, which require a long-term development strategy that is economically sustainable, while minimising the environmental impact.
− i regard this compromise as a victory for common sense and congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent balance between the needs of the environment and the needs of the producer he has achieved in his report.
i also commend the efforts of the rapporteur towards securing the long-term target of 147 g co2/km, which should apply by 2020, while underlining the need to protect manufacturers who consider that a change to the mentioned emissions target agreed only two years ago would significantly undermine the legitimate need for safety.
the most positive part of the report is the rapporteur's effort to recognise the disproportionate impact of compliance with certain targets on small manufacturers and his recommendation that manufacturers responsible for the production of less than 1 000 new light commercial vehicles be excluded from the scope of the emission reduction target and the payment of the excess emissions premium.
the development of ccs technology is emerging as a key driver in the fight against climate change, but despite all the efforts of the european union, it has not yet fully taken hold in the member states.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate and energy strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's 2030 climate and energy strategy.
− environmental protection is one of the broadest areas of the eu 2020 strategy.
the eu 2020 joint strategy of all member states sets a clear target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 g/km by 2020. more ambitious co2 reduction targets are feasible, but it is important to steer manufacturers in the right direction to encourage investment in green technologies without compromising competitiveness.
the environmental tax is calculated on the basis of the purchase value of the vehicle and the co2 emissions, which means that cars emitting less than 120 grams of co2 per kilometre are cheaper, those emitting between 120 and 130 grams per kilometre remain at the same or slightly lower price, and those with co2 emissions above 130 grams per kilometre are significantly more expensive.
in conclusion, i would like to point out that setting co2 reduction targets encourages european car manufacturers to innovate technologically, thus not only improving the economy but also saving the environment.
this regulation improves the quality of life of citizens, but also provides an incentive for the automotive industry to seek new ways to reduce emissions.
- the environmental problem of waste management of co2 is one of the biggest problems of our time, the cause of human health problems, the extinction of animal and plant species, and the cause of global warming.
fossil fuels will still provide 75% of the world's energy by 2030, but we need to ensure that this carbon is properly stored to meet the long-term goal of reducing co2 use by 20% by 2050. carbon capture and storage is an important environmental factor because by reducing its share of emissions, it can keep the global temperature rise to 2 degrees celsius, which is crucial in an age of global warming.
in addition, carbon capture and storage should be part of a strategy to develop renewable energy sources in the transition to low-carbon production.
in particular, i welcome the proposal to the commission to consider establishing a european investment fund for industrial innovation to stimulate the development of innovative technologies that are good for the environment, including leading-edge projects related to carbon capture and storage technology, other innovative low-carbon technologies and measures to reduce co2 emissions from energy-intensive industries and their processes.
i also agree with the rapporteur that the use of carbon capture and storage technologies is a competence of the member states and they should decide for themselves whether to include such technologies in their national co2 reduction strategies or whether the targets will be achieved by direct emission reductions.
− i consider co2 storage to be a highly positive practice and an advanced technology that can significantly reduce co2 emissions from industrial sources and fossil fuel power plants.
i support the efforts of the rapporteur in calling on the commission to take into account parliament's proposal to prepare a legislative framework that would ask each member state to develop a low-carbon strategy by 2050. i also support the rapporteur's proposal that the national plans for the strategy be updated every five years.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers and the protection of the environment.
he's an introduction to low pay, low standards and an unsafe work environment.
there are many problems that arise in relation to this topic, both in croatia and in other european countries, and only some of them are undeclared work, the lack of social and health insurance that arises from it, insecure working environment, fragmentation of the labor market, lack of personnel and resources necessary for the effective conduct of labour inspections.
i am glad that mr bennion's report recognises and encourages such privileges, but it stresses that profit is by no means the only reason why this type of management model should be promoted as sustainable, humane, high-quality and good.
− employee financial participation programmes build on the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and increase employee interest in the success of the business.
employee financial participation is a mechanism that contributes to the europe 2020 core objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by increasing the involvement of workers in decision-making in the companies in which they work, encouraging the strengthening of good governance and ensuring a share of the financial benefits of successful business operations, and i therefore support this report.
− the report highlights the need for continuous adaptation and modernisation of social protection systems at member state level, which will guarantee quality, sustainable and adequate social protection for all citizens, based on the principles of universal access and non-discrimination and the ability to respond in a timely manner to new demographic and labour market changes.
the issue of pensions and ensuring the sustainability of the pension system is of particular importance.
the current economic climate is not helped by the fact that the number of unemployed is increasing and that young people are unable to find work.
i would stress the importance of focusing on a results-oriented approach, ensuring a positive long-term impact, but also recognising economic, social and environmental priorities.
cooperation is needed at all levels - national, regional and local - in all phases of the funding programme and the flow of information to all actors, and those representing different economic, social and environmental perspectives.
an effective cohesion policy can make a significant contribution to member states in creating jobs, increasing competitiveness and fostering sustainable growth and development.
i voted in favour because i support increasing the efficiency of public spending to ensure the best possible outcome in terms of value for money and to enable public procurement to be of greater benefit to shared social objectives such as environmental protection, employment and social inclusion and insurance.
− with the increasing technological possibilities of recycling and the increasing use of plastics in everyday life, it is important that plastic waste is separated into a specific category and treated as a resource.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of recycled plastic waste, the definition of recycled plastic waste and the definition of recycled plastic waste.
- i support this report and want to highlight the current underestimation of plastic waste considering that 40% of waste comes from packaging.
we often forget that the issue of plastic waste can be seen not only from an environmental perspective but also from an economic one.
of course, always keeping in mind the sustainability of the ecosystem, in this case, where economic and environmental interests can overlap.
if we were to treat plastic waste more rationally, and this applies in particular to waste prevention, reuse and recycling, viewing it as a raw material and a usable resource, we would be in a position to reconcile these two often conflicting interests.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the implementation of the union's policy on plastic waste.
i would particularly like to point out the importance of funding infrastructure for recycling plastic waste instead of funding landfills and incineration of waste.
in croatia, we have a big problem with landfills that threaten human health and the sustainability of ecosystems.
−i voted in favour of this resolution based on the concept of a circular economy, taking into account the factual situation set out in the proposal: i support the development of specific eu legislation on plastic waste and the alignment of existing standards with actual production, and above all the initiative of absolute reduction of resource use.
the commission notes that the waste incineration plant is located in a different area of the city of kleve, and that the waste incineration plant is located in the same area of the city of kleve.
− redefining europe's approach to plastics and shifting the notion of plastics and plastic recycling from waste to a usable industrial resource is a welcome step that will have positive effects on the environment but also on economic growth through the stimulation of recycling plants that also create new jobs.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of the waste management strategy, including the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment.
in this respect, the croatian example of subsidising the purchase of pet packaging, which, with its upgrade and extension to other types of plastic packaging and products, can serve as an example of good practice that has successfully provided plastic raw material to recycling plants and removed a significant amount of plastic waste from the environment, should be highlighted.
− i supported the report by my colleague vittoria prodia which aims to reduce the environmental impact of plastic waste, extend the life cycle of existing plastic products and tackle the issue of plastic waste in the seas.
the eu plastics sector is an industry that generates more than €300 billion in turnover and employs 1.54 million people, but there is still no clear waste data.
of the estimated 25 mt of plastic waste in 2008 in the eu27, only 21.3% was recycled.
croatia generates on average one third less municipal waste than the eu27.
as regards plastic waste, in 2007 croatia generated 143 kt of plastic waste, or 32t/capita, of which only 17% was recycled, which is below the already relatively modest eu average.
i want to draw attention to the problem of plastic waste from albania that croatia is unfortunately facing.
the situation of large quantities of waste being carried by sea currents and southeast winds from albania is becoming more frequent.
in just a few days, hundreds of tons of plastic waste are being dumped on beaches in the southern part of croatia, directly threatening not only the environment but also croatian tourism as one of the most important industries.
− plastic waste should be treated as a valuable resource by promoting its reuse, recycling and recovery.
the new eu policy on environmental protection, eco-innovation and waste management should be preceded by comprehensive impact assessments, including their social consequences and the potential for creating new so-called green jobs.
in particular, i welcome the proposal to introduce a commission green paper and to identify problems that would lead to additional measures on plastic waste in european union legislation and to a harmonisation, consistency and more rigorous application and enforcement of existing waste legislation.
− this ambitious target of 75% recycled plastics by 2020 gives impetus to the creation of efficient waste management systems.
i point to the great problem of plastic waste in the sea, and i express particular concern for the adriatic sea, which is a semi-enclosed sea.
the problem is relevant to all eu member states and to those countries that are about to become members, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that the rules relating to environmental protection are harmonized.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on waste management and its implementation in the member states.
− given that croatia has not yet established an effective plastic waste management system, i am particularly interested in this strategy.
i voted for this report because i agree that we must give priority to recycling over incineration or disposal of plastic waste.
the rapporteur advocates punishing the illegal export and disposal of plastic waste, but unfortunately the flow of plastic waste from third countries to eu member states by sea is not mentioned.
croatia has had a problem for some time with waste coming by sea from albania, where there are only two legal landfills and a large number of illegal landfills.
the report emphasises that respect for workers' rights and consideration of environmental impacts are particularly important aspects of the quality criteria.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my support for the report by my colleague marc tarabella and congratulate him and the other shadow rapporteurs who, on the basis of the commission proposal presented to us here by commissioner michel barnier, whom i also welcome, have explained the development of this legislative package which modernises the texts of the directives in force since 2004 and that it is good that concession contracts and public procurement and public procurement contracts are adopted and awarded together by entities involved in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector.
i welcome the introduction of new criteria in the concession award procedure, including environmental protection, innovation, social issues focusing on working conditions and the protection of the health of staff, and the promotion of the social integration of disadvantaged persons, including accessibility for persons with disabilities.
this tradition should be nurtured and the efforts of croatian beekeepers who make great efforts to adhere to good beekeeping practices, which are the basis for sustainable development of beekeeping, should be recognised.
we need to say no to the pressures of the gmo industry and strongly advocate for the production of honey as it is done today in croatia, in a natural, safe and clean environment.
on the energy policy issue, croatia and russia failed to reach an agreement during the centre-right government in the last government of the republic of croatia, and we hope that now as an eu member we will be able to reconcile common goals and interests and resume talks on all issues, especially on energy, as well as to resume cooperation in all other relevant areas of common interest - tourism, economy, science, education and culture.
the union and the republic of moldova shall cooperate in the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and sustainable development.
the parties shall cooperate in the development of the union's energy policy and in the implementation of the union's energy policy.
i believe that the eu should continue to take measures to contribute to the eradication of poverty in individual asean members, to the strengthening of human rights and dialogue, and to the protection of the environment and migration flows.
as the most important positive change linked to this directive, i would like to emphasise the binding social, labour and environmental conditions and respect for collective agreements advocated by the group of the socialists and democrats in the european parliament.
this item encourages all actors in the process to maintain and respect commitments in the areas of environmental, social and labour standards based on union standards, national standards and collective agreements and relevant international agreements.
new selection criteria based on quality, longevity and sustainability, rather than just the lowest price, are introduced.
if the tender is the result of exploitation of workers, non-compliance with collective agreements and environmental pollution, or if it does not meet other social, labour and environmental requirements, the contracting authority will have to reject an unreasonably low tender, in other words, there is a strong emphasis on the social component of public procurement and for these reasons i support this proposal.
the new rules relating to the protection of social as well as environmental issues in the management of certain services of general interest such as electricity, transport or gas are also of key importance.
i also agree with the rapporteur that the 'cheapest bidder' philosophy should be abandoned and replaced by the most economically advantageous practice, taking into account, apart from price and social criteria, criteria of sustainable development and environmental protection.
mr president, i also supported this directive because it has the task of striking a balance between simplifying regulations and effective procedures with regard to innovative, sustainable award criteria.
i support the concept of the most economically advantageous tender which, in addition to the lowest price, involves meeting certain specific needs of the contracting authority and strategic social aspects such as social labour rights, working conditions, environmental criteria, access to employment for the unemployed, young people and women.
− i voted for changes to public procurement procedures in this sector as they help to stimulate investment while ensuring respect for social and environmental obligations, promoting innovation and quality and the efficient use of public funds.
− i support the adoption of the report on the directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
this directive supports the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement in the water, transport, energy and postal sectors.
it is important to note that 27% of the value of public procurement in croatia relates to entities in the water, transport, energy and postal sectors, and i therefore welcome this proposal for a directive which will be of importance for the croatian public sector.
− i supported this report which proposes a regulation on public procurement by entities operating in the water, energy and transport sectors and the postal services sector.
the establishment of e-procurement as a general rule in all member states is a positive thing that will lead to a more efficient, simpler and modern public procurement system in the water, energy and transport sectors and in the postal services sector.
− i voted in favour of this directive because the existing public procurement rules adopted under directive 2004/17/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 should be revised and improved in order to increase the efficiency of public consumption, ensure value for money, facilitate equal access and fair participation of smes and artisans in public procurement, both at local and union level, and to enable suppliers to make better use of public procurement in achieving sustainable production and consumption.
in order to ensure competition in the procurement of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, it is necessary to lay down rules for the harmonisation of procurement procedures with regard to contracts above a certain value.
mr president, public procurement procedures are a waste of public money, the money of the taxpayers of the member states, and of the european union as a whole.
such an environment does not contribute to the healthy development of the european union's trade relations with these countries, constrains the market and delays the recovery from the economic crisis.
at the same time, bearing in mind the union's commitment to the protection of human rights and social justice, amendments in the form of articles 5a and 24a calling for compliance with environmental, social and labour legislation of third countries as well as with european union legislation, which are among the most progressive in the world in those legal categories, should be particularly commended.
in this sense, any initiative that would open up new business opportunities for croatian entrepreneurs in areas such as construction, electricity industry, etc., provided that high standards of labour rights and environmental protection are respected, and in conditions of economic crisis, should be supported.
− i agree with the views of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on the status of honeydew, which is following the decision of the european court of justice in case c-442/09, where honeydew is defined as an ingredient of honey.
particular support should be given to countries with a clean and unpolluted environment, such as croatia, whose honey is of high quality and whose production of honey has been steadily increasing, in the case of croatia by about 400% over the last 10 years, i.e.
- in the context of the debate on the girling report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey, i took account of the arguments put forward by the shadow rapporteur, mr peterle, in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
that's why i supported the environmental committee's position by voting for an amendment to this report that would require gmo pollen to be listed as an ingredient in honey and not a natural part of it.
− i fully support the position voted by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which endorses the position of the european court of justice by legally classifying pollen from gmos as an ingredient of honey, rather than a natural constituent of it.
i would like to highlight the experience of sustainable fisheries, as iceland is the first country in the world to achieve the ideal of sustainable fisheries, one of the priorities in the next multiannual programmes of the european union.
for this reason, it is primarily resource and energy efficiency that is at the heart of europe's industrial renewal.
competitiveness and sustainability are consequences, not goals.
a sustainable, innovative and efficient industry is key to growth and development.
mr vice-president, i support the report by mr bütikofer on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability, which gives clear directions for strengthening production within the european union and facilitates access to capital and strengthens the common market.
we need to keep in mind that we need to embed the principles of sustainability in this process and thus set an example of good management of natural resources without long-term adverse effects on the environment.
the european commission has put forward data showing that the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors alone have the potential to create 5 million jobs by 2020. the economic crisis has led to the loss of 3.8 million jobs in the eu's industrial sector.
the direction in which they should move is actually to formulate strategies and plans that are in line with their own natural resources and that would lead to the creation of a more successful business or investment environment.
− i welcome the adoption of the report on the reindustrialisation of europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability.
i believe that innovation and a skilled workforce are the key to achieving sustainable competitiveness.
only as pioneers of technological development and innovation can we have a competitive and sustainable european industry that will meet the challenges of the new age.
− i believe that with a good strategy we can reindustrialise europe, both to promote competitiveness and sustainability, and to drive innovation and create new jobs.
i would like to stress here the importance of green industry and the need for an environmentally efficient strategy based on energy and resources.
the european commission has indicated that the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors have the potential to create 5 million jobs by 2020, indicating the importance of generating capacity as well as increasing competitiveness and sustainability in order to secure these new jobs.
first, i would remind you that regional economies are the key to achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
among other things, further reorganisation of public administration, reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption, closer cooperation between the legislature and the executive, and the creation of a favourable economic climate for economic growth are needed.
iceland is a very important strategic partner of the eu, as evidenced by the european economic area and the schengen area and a range of common interests in the areas of renewable energy and climate change, as well as the strategic importance of the eu's arctic policy.
just speak with people who lead companies in border areas, and they will tell you how much energy and money is lost in useless red tape.
the impact assessment of the regulation is a very important mechanism that allows to identify at the outset the sustainability and feasibility of the regulation and to determine qualitatively the timeframe needed for implementation in view of the fiscal capacities of the member states.
madam president, i support the report by mrs schroedter on the local and regional implications of the development of smart grids to enable the increasing uptake of renewable energy sources in the electricity systems of the member states and regions.
the report takes as its starting point the promotion of a change in the paradigm of the regions in terms of the way energy is produced and consumed, by moving from a conventional model to a variable, decentralised and local production that integrates a large part of renewable energy sources from small-scale production.
many member states will not be able to achieve their ambitious carbon reduction targets beyond 2020 without significant progress in the development of smart grids that need to integrate renewable sources into electricity systems.
the achievement of the renewable energy targets will create 2.8 million new jobs by 2020, a large share of the european union economy.
the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the establishment of a european network for the exchange of information on the implementation of the union's policies and activities in the field of energy, in particular by means of implementing acts.
madam president, smart grids are key to the development and use of renewable energy sources.
the european union has set a target of at least 20% renewable energy in its total electricity generation in the 2020 strategy.
the republic of croatia has the opportunity to use european funds to develop smart grids and increase the level of use of these cheap energy sources for households and production, thus reducing input costs and increasing competitiveness.
studies show that the use of renewable energy sources also creates new jobs.
smart grids are the way to achieve europe's goals: an energy-independent and competitive european union with as many jobs as possible.
madam president, allow me to express my support for this report, which i believe offers new opportunities for the regional economy and positive effects on local employment, and therefore on the socioeconomic status of the region, but also on climate change.
it is essential that we promote new models of energy production and consumption, where local communities and citizens can become producers and consumers.
the transition to variable, decentralised and local generation involves investing in smart energy networks, but also connecting the energy sector to other sectors in order to increase economic benefits and align regional energy supply and demand.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and the council amending regulation (ec) no 1224/2009 on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables (oj l 347, 20.12.2010, p. the republic of croatia has aligned its legislation with the acquis of the european union in the field of energy in accordance with the commitments undertaken.
the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the renewable energy sector.
the commission notes that the new law on the energy market is based on the principle of the 'one country, two systems' principle.
in addition to this productive function, they directly contribute to other public goods: the preservation of the european countryside and biodiversity, the preservation of folk customs and other intangible heritage, and the production of regional and traditional products.
it opened 2900 such proceedings in 2009, 2100 in 2010 and 1775 in 2011. however, there has been an increase in late transfers over several years (1185 in 2011, 855 in 2010, 531 in 2009), most of which related to environment (17%), internal market (15%), transport (15%) and tax (12%).
by aligning existing eu legislation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (clp) with the united nations system for the identification of hazardous chemicals and the provision of information to users on related substances (ghs), we achieve better control of the chemicals market and indirect environmental protection.
this would modernise the regulations and improve the level of health and safety protection when hazardous chemical mixtures and substances are present in the working environment.
all five directives should be reconsidered as soon as possible in order to harmonise legislation and achieve an adequate level of health and safety protection when hazardous chemicals and mixtures are present in the working environment.
the clp regulation entered into force in 2009. its aim is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by means of labelling, which indicates all potential harmful effects of the chemical.
in order to facilitate trade worldwide, while protecting human health and the environment, harmonised classification and labelling criteria, together with the general principles for their application, have been carefully developed over a period of 12 years within the united nations framework.
i think it will also benefit our special associations that deal with copyright protection and remuneration for phonogram rights in croatia and i expect that in this respect in the new digital environment both users and licensors and users will be satisfied.
- this report is the result of the repeal of the previous regulation regulating the obligation of member states to report to the european commission on investments in energy infrastructure.
the aim of the proposal is to provide the commission with accurate and timely information on the state of the energy sector in order to better regulate the common energy market and policy.
i support this regulation because it will enable us to identify future energy demand and supply and reduce barriers to investment.
- the establishment of a common framework for the collection of data on energy projects under planning or construction will create a comprehensive energy picture of the european union.
this will allow for a better development of the european energy policy.
i support this report because its adoption will allow regular access to up-to-date data and information, which should enable the commission to make the necessary comparisons and assessments or to propose appropriate measures on the basis of the relevant figures and analyses, in particular with regard to the future balance between energy supply and demand on the european market.
the energy picture in the european union has changed considerably in recent years, with the eu's increasing dependence on energy from third countries becoming more visible.
there is a need for better coordination between member states and eu bodies, especially when it comes to energy contracts with third countries, and this report provides for the information on such energy projects to be communicated to the commission.
the report recognises smaller wind and solar power plants, further adding to the importance of renewable energy sources, which are expected to become an important part of future energy production in the european union.
- the work on this draft report on a highly relevant subject has seen the submission of many amendments aimed at simplifying the procedures for investment projects in energy infrastructure.
in addition, work has been done to extend the scope of the legislation to include coal as an important element in the energy mix.
it has a significant impact on the union's energy policy.
- the creation of a comprehensive picture of the development of investment in energy infrastructure in the union is a prerequisite for the development of european energy policy.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the energy market and to take appropriate measures to ensure that the union's energy market is not affected by the effects of the measures.
in order to ensure that the commission has a consistent overview of the future evolution of the union's energy system as a whole, a harmonised framework for reporting on investment projects is needed, based on up-to-date information to be provided by member states.
i support this report which calls on the commission and the energy market observatory to provide for a regular, cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and outlook of the union's energy system and, where appropriate, a more precise analysis of certain aspects of that energy system.
- i supported this report because i believe that a regulation which will provide a harmonised framework for reporting on investment projects planned or under construction in the member states relating to the production, storage and transport of oil, natural gas, electricity, coal, biofuels and carbon dioxide is a good example of how to reduce the administrative burden and costs of the member states.
in addition, this regulation will contribute to strengthening energy security by identifying potential infrastructure shortcomings and reducing the risk of insufficient or inappropriate investment in energy infrastructure.
it should be underlined that this regulation also reduces the capacity threshold of installations using renewable energy sources, so that the data collected on the state of the eu energy system will be even more precise and complete as it will also include installations of lower capacity, such as croatian wind farms.
i am pleased that investment projects of croatian wind power (we) such as the zelengrad-obrovac pv, which is under construction, and the ogorje and glunča pv, which are planned, will now also be part of the eu energy system.
- investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure are of particular importance to the european union.
in the context of the new energy policy, which aims at secure supply, mitigating climate change and ensuring competitiveness, investment in energy infrastructure is key and private economic operators are playing an increasing role in this investment.
the republic of croatia, as a member of the european union, has an important role in the field of energy infrastructure and energy infrastructure projects and is included in the list of 250 priority projects of common european interest.
- i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the reporting by the commission on investment projects in the field of energy infrastructure in the european union.
reliable data on energy investment is the basis for planning and policy-making in this area and a clear overview of current and planned investments in the energy sector is needed.
the proposed regulation requires member states to provide the european commission with information every two years on investments in planned energy projects as well as carbon capture and storage projects.
according to un figures for 2011, the energy industry was responsible for 30.91% of the eu's greenhouse gas emissions, which speaks volumes about the importance of the energy sector in the fight against climate change.
it was at the last plenary session of parliament that i drew attention to the importance of reliable and accurate data in the energy sector, during the debate on carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology.
in particular, in its report on the future of ccs technologies, which are considered a key element in reducing greenhouse gas concentrations, the european commission took data from zero.
in line with the above, i consider it crucial in the development of public policies to have reliable and accurate data on investments in the energy sector.
- mr president, the aim of the regulation before us is to provide the european commission with accurate and timely access to figures, statistical analyses, expert reviews and other qualitative and quantitative information relating to the state of the energy sector in individual member states, so that the commission can carry out its tasks in planning the overall energy policy of the european union in a sound and structured manner.
as we all know, the energy situation has changed considerably in recent years and investment in energy infrastructure has become a key issue for the security of the european union's energy supply.
in this context, the issue of the community's energy supply necessarily affects the functioning of our internal market, but is also of crucial importance for the gradual transition to a sustainable energy system that we have embarked upon as a community.
in order to give the european commission a consistent overview of future developments in the eu's energy system as a whole and to plan our public policies accordingly, i believe that the harmonised framework for reporting on energy projects proposed by ms valean is not only necessary but also indispensable.
it sets out the future and the future role of the court of auditors, the definition of the traditional das guarantee statement model, new dimensions and challenges in the work of the court, cooperation with national audit institutions, the new environment for the court's work and the restructuring of the court's structure.
in this way, the court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the european union.
- i supported the report on regulatory adequacy, subsidiarity and proportionality in the european union because it contributes to achieving smart and sustainable growth that benefits citizens, companies and workers, which is a shared responsibility of the european commission, the member states of the european union and the other institutions.
as its scope focuses on the parameters of justice systems that contribute to improving the business and investment climate in the eu, the analysis relates exclusively to civil, commercial and administrative law.
predictable, timely decisions are important components of an attractive business environment.
mr president, i have already stressed on several occasions in this parliament the importance of the potential for new jobs that lies in renewable energy sources and smart energy systems.
it seems to me that it is not only necessary, but crucial, to encourage all regions and local authorities to consider the benefits of investing in smart energy systems as a potential source of new jobs.
not only because it highlights the positive environmental effects of developing smart energy systems, but especially because it recognises that they have the potential to provide employment for many of our citizens.
- under the 2014-2020 european and structural investment funds regulations, member states are obliged to channel the resources of these funds towards investing in a smart, sustainable and inclusive europe.
gussing in austria, for example, has managed to transform itself from a poor and peripheral region into a model of self-sufficiency by producing energy for its needs from renewable sources.
in addition to encouraging development in the region through employment, investment and so on, the environment is also protected.
however, they play an important social, environmental and cultural role, and their sustainability is in the interest of all of us.
i consider it essential to take account of the specific needs of small economies in order to strengthen their competitiveness, sustainability and profitability.
i supported this report, which calls on the member states and the european commission to take measures to promote the sustainability of small farms and rural areas under the new cap.
at the same time, competition from countries such as china is investing in new plants and increasing steel production by using lower energy prices and cheaper labour.
due to the limited resources in europe, energy prices in the eu have increased significantly in recent years, causing a noticeable weakening of the competitiveness of european industry in the world.
i believe that this report, supplemented by a number of amendments by my colleagues, represents an acceptable plan for maintaining the competitiveness of this industry, while emphasising its sustainability.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the new rules on the environment, which will be published in the official journal of the european union in the form of a report.
- i supported the european commission's action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe because the industry currently employs 420,000 people and has a market share of 11% of world production (the eu is second only to china, with 45% of world production).
steel is an important raw material for other key industries in the european union such as the construction and automotive industries, which together use 40% of steel in europe, but it is also important for engineering, electrical engineering and renewable energy sources.
the commission's green paper on the 2030 climate and energy policies is a good example of how the european council can help to ensure that the union is able to compete effectively in the global marketplace.
i also believe that this climate policy should not become an anti-industrial policy in order to keep the european union globally competitive.
i can therefore support the two-pronged framework because i believe it is the best way to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions while not jeopardising industrial and economic growth.
recent studies have shown that 95% of global warming is caused by human activities, compared to 90% in the fourth assessment report in 2007. so we must do everything in our power to preserve the stability of our ecosystem.
the union is also at the forefront of technological innovation in the field of renewable energy sources.
i stress that the continuation of this policy with binding targets for renewable energy sources will further strengthen the union's position in this area.
it has also been demonstrated that the development of renewable energy sources contributes to the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the need to import fossil fuels and increasing the diversity of our energy sources.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
the council and the fisheries committee of the european parliament rejected the commission's proposal to ban tuna imports from bolivia, cambodia, equatorial guinea, sierra leone and georgia because the committee considers that it is necessary to impose so-called sanctions on tuna imports only from georgia and bolivia, which are in the opinion of the fisheries committee in violation of resolution 98-18. as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i have supported this statement because i believe it contributes to sustainable and balanced environmental development and environmental protection in accordance with international regulations.
- i believe that the eu-gabon protocol, provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the two parties, based on the principle of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, will help to establish responsible fishing in the gabonese fishing zone.
the promotion of experimental fishing for a period of no more than 12 months and scientific cooperation on responsible fishing must be based on the principle of non-discrimination in technical conservation measures between the different fleets fishing in those waters and on the principle of sustainable management of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems.
the proposal also makes clear that the principle of preserving the marine environment will be respected, and that fisheries management will be guided by an ecological and precautionary approach.
this will ensure that the impact of fishing activities on the marine ecosystem is limited and that marine resources are protected.
efficient and sustainable management and management of marine and coastal areas is still not sufficiently emphasised, and we must therefore always promote sustainable blue development so that future generations have healthy food supplies.
i would also like to stress that, in improving relations and developing cooperation in sensitive areas such as exploration and exploitation of mineral resources, it is very important to bear in mind the value, but also the vulnerability, of the arctic ecosystem, and in this regard to respect high safety, social and environmental standards.
in view of the climate change that is evident, greenland will certainly face a series of consequences of this change in its near future, in a positive as well as in a negative sense, and the european union must keep a watchful eye on developments and be ready to respond, as a responsible and reliable partner.
the 2006 joint declaration by the european union, greenland and denmark defined the common priorities of the partnership and served as the basis for cooperation in the period 2007-2013. as the partnership/cooperation agreement expired on 31 december 2013, there is a need to adopt a new partnership framework for the period 2014 to 2020. in view of the geostrategic importance of greenland and the arctic and, therefore, the interests of the european union, further cooperation between the european union and greenland is needed, in particular in areas such as energy, climate change, environment, natural resources (where the exploitation of natural resources must apply the highest safety, social and environmental protection standards).
the arctic region, which includes the world's largest island, greenland, has attracted additional attention in recent years, largely due to the impact of climate change in that part of the world.
gradual melting of the ice leads to the exploitation of natural resources, including minerals, gas and oil, and easier navigation allows for sustainable sea passage between europe, asia and the americas.
climate change will undoubtedly have a negative impact on the flora and fauna, as well as on the traditions and way of life of the inhabitants.
economic development, especially mining and oil and gas extraction, is likely to pose serious and obvious threats to an already fragile ecosystem.
the proposal for a council decision on relations between the european union, of the one part, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, of the other part, establishes a framework for cooperation between the parties for the period 2014-2020. however, in order to prevent over-exploitation of natural resources, it should be emphasised that eu financial assistance under this partnership should be concentrated on addressing challenges such as: increasing the skills of the workforce, including scientists, shaping sustainable diversification of the economy and improving greenland's information systems and its competitiveness in the field of information and communication technologies.
however, greenland is more exposed to climate change than other areas, which plays a major role in the development of the economy.
the adoption of this commission proposal for a programme until 2020 will allow for the strengthening of the relationship between the european union on the one hand and the kingdom of denmark and greenland on the other, which is of paramount importance for the economies of both parties, as well as for the sustainable use of natural resources and the preservation of the arctic ecosystem.
in view of the common objectives of the partnership, the social and political foundations, and taking into account the geostrategic importance of greenland and the arctic for the eu, i support further cooperation with these countries, and for the establishment of a new programme for 2014-2020, as the old programme is no longer operational as of 31 december 2013. the new partnership programme will facilitate consultation and policy dialogue on objectives and areas of cooperation of common interest, in particular in areas such as: energy, climate change and environmental protection, natural resources including raw materials and excluding fishery products, and maritime transport, research and innovation are just some of the areas of great interest to the eu and to the citizens of the member states.
the union should also support the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to human health and the environment, including through the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the prevention of and response to emerging threats to human health and the environment.
environmental accidents such as water and soil pollution have a direct and long-term negative impact on the health of the population.
i consider that this type of cooperation agreement on competition is very welcome in a globalised economic environment where cartels and cross-border legal measures need to be prevented.
the commission therefore considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the guidelines on state aid for environmental protection and energy efficiency [18].
however, i welcome the amendments incorporated by the s&d group in the proposal which limit the trade preferences that can be granted to third countries in the event that they do not respect high social and environmental standards.
we also have new principles for sustainable fishing, namely reform of the fisheries policy, a ban on discarding of excess catches, but we want to simplify the rules and a new control regulation.
the european commission has been given the right powers and i hope that its future acts will take into account and bear in mind the specificities of countries and regions and adapt appropriately to fisheries practices and ensure the sustainability of fisheries throughout the union.
that is the key to sustainable fishing in our seas.
the essential requirement is that each explosive is designed, manufactured and supplied in such a way as to minimise the risks to the safety of human life and to avoid damage to property and the environment.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems.
the amendments we considered necessary concern the essential requirements to be met by appliances for their placing on the eu market, with particular attention to the unintentional generation, transmission and reception of electromagnetic energy.
the ability of an appliance or system to operate correctly in its electromagnetic environment without introducing unacceptable electromagnetic disturbances into that environment.
simplifying the regulatory environment for products opens up the scope for a more consistent implementation of technical standards, which contributes significantly to the functionality of the common market, thus ensuring equal treatment of products with all non-compliant products and economic operators.
- i welcome the introduction of a simplified environmental regulator for electrical equipment for use within certain voltage limits which allows for more consistent implementation of technical standards.
it is important to ensure that all steps are aligned in order to ensure that necessary bodies are notified and to ensure consistency of the overall regulatory environment for such products.
to ensure compliance and that necessary bodies are notified, as well as for the sake of consistency of the overall regulatory environment on products, it is important that all necessary factors are aligned.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of natural resources, including the impact of the measures on the environment.
i consider these amendments to be important not only because they remove unnecessary red tape from the already highly competitive market for measuring instruments in the european union, but also because they concern consumer protection in the european environment.
in particular, the legislative framework lays down rules for the following measuring instruments: water meters, gas meters and volume converters, effective electricity meters, heat energy meters, measuring systems for continuous and dynamic measurement of the amount of liquids other than water, automatic weighing scales, taximeters, real measurements, dimensional meters and exhaust gas analysers.
i believe that it is also necessary to introduce additional tools that contribute to simplifying the regulatory environment for products and to allow for a more consistent implementation of technical standards in the eu common market.
i support the current efforts of eu officials to ensure that the ukrainian protagonists can find a peaceful and sustainable way out of the deep crisis their country is in.
- ecology and renewable energy are areas where the european union is a model for all countries in the world.
the commission's official figures show that most of the 2020 climate targets will be met, a major success for the union and its policies.
the paradox of the simultaneous increase in the share of renewable energy and the dependence on fossil fuel imports shows that measures taken so far may not have been ambitious enough.
the billions we spend on energy imports could have been put to much better use by investing in renewable energy research, modern infrastructure and energy efficiency.
the price of energy from fossil fuels will only rise in the future, and that's why i'm advocating for setting the bar high when it comes to climate and environmental goals for 2030. today it may seem like a liability, but tomorrow it will pay off as an investment.
the disregard for the environmental consequences and climate change caused by industrial production is not in keeping with the times in which we live.
i have just made a speech on the environment action plan 2020 in which i stressed that sustainable economic development and a green economy are of interest to all member states.
my position remains the same on the 2030 framework for climate and energy and i support a compromise approach.
the base year from which the percentage of co2 emissions reductions is calculated is 1990. in that period, the croatian economy was at a high-quality industrial level.
the war that croatia experienced during the 1990s completely devastated our industry, destroyed large plants and, consequently, significantly reduced the impact on the environment.
- i voted for this report because i believe that climate protection is a political agenda for all progressive forces that think about future generations.
i welcome parliament's vision for a new framework for climate and energy policy in the first place, and i believe that binding energy targets should relate to energy efficiency, and i believe that we should strive to avoid energy import dependency and fossil fuel dependency.
there is a huge potential in the use of renewable energy sources which will certainly create the right conditions for the creation of new jobs which are important for us in europe, which has always been the policy of the social democrats.
- the 2030 climate and energy policy framework will build on the significant progress already made in this area.
the worrying data showing that the eu is the largest importer of fossil fuels with an annual value of over eur 500 billion is a clear sign that changes in the union's energy strategy are needed.
the example of croatia clearly shows that the emphasis on renewable energy sources is paying off, given that the country has reduced its co2 emissions in recent years.
the commission notes that the average annual energy consumption in the eu is around eur 10 billion, which is a significant increase compared to the average annual energy consumption in the eu.
the changes proposed by the commission in the 2030 strategy should aim at reducing dependence on fossil fuels while further increasing the share of renewable energy sources, in order to preserve the environment and prevent further climate change.
in addition to achieving this objective, the new strategy needs to be balanced in order to achieve an energy system that contributes to the competitiveness of the european union's economy, providing internationally competitive prices and affordable energy for final consumers.
- i supported the report by colleagues delvaux and szymański which should provide a framework for eu climate and energy policy up to 2030. the procedure for this case will be completed by the next european parliament, but it is crucial to send a political message of the european union's commitment to climate protection before the elections and to provide the framework for a final international agreement on greenhouse gas reductions in paris in 2015. the objective of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 is ambitious enough on the one hand, but realistic enough on the other hand, and takes into account the needs of economic development.
after the last climate conference in warsaw in november last year, i organized a roundtable in croatia that brought together relevant experts and expanded the public debate.
this year we are also joining the eu emissions trading system where we will be able to increase greenhouse gas emissions not covered by that system by 11% by 2020 compared to 2005. in order to ensure the achievement of the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets by 2020 and beyond, croatia is in the process of adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050. i support the report and believe that this will demonstrate the eu's commitment to reducing the impact of climate change and stimulate the development of low-carbon technologies and the creation of new jobs in clean and green industries.
- i did not support this report but it is important to europeanise european policy and establish an independent energy policy of the european union.
we need to have binding targets and if we can't agree on all three targets then i'm prepared to make a compromise proposal that supports two targets, which are energy efficiency and renewable energy.
i am aware that energy in europe is very expensive and that we have three times more expensive gas and twice as expensive electricity than the united states and that these unacceptably high prices are making european products uncompetitive, and i agree that we must direct our action towards a single market, encouraging renewable energy and reducing taxes on energy, which are enormously high in some member states.
we also need to balance climate, energy and environmental policies.
it also requires a 40% cut in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, but also that greenhouse gas reduction alone cannot be the only goal and therefore we need to aim to have 30% renewable energy in production by 2030 and to bring energy efficiency up to 40%.
first, the european environment agency recently found that the european union reduced its emissions by 18% between 1990 and 2012. as you know, that's very close to our goal of reducing emissions by 20% by 2020. it therefore seems to me quite logical that we should increase our target to at least 30%, in line with the opinion of the development committee.
second, i think it's crucial to reconcile our climate and our development goals.
i believe that this potential can only be realised by coordinating our climate and energy policies in a timely and targeted manner with sustainable development, which we have emphasised in recent years as crucial.
thirdly, i believe it is extremely important to better align our external energy policy because it has a strong impact on our internal market.
in conclusion, i am pleased that we are showing the will to remain committed to good climate and energy policies, but i stress once again how important it is that we make the most of these good policies in economic terms as well.
consumers are also concerned about the standards of animal husbandry and transportation for ethical reasons, but also for reasons of environmental protection, and it is precisely this information that could be made available to consumers through specific insight into the exact origin of the meat product.
the provisions consist of a general arrangement and two special arrangements, including the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), charging no duties on imports of more than 6 000 tariff lines from beneficiary countries.
- the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme is an international scheme for greenhouse gas emissions trading within the eu.
the european emissions trading system (eu ets) is a cornerstone of european policy to combat climate change and a key tool for reducing industrial greenhouse gas emissions.
the eu ets is the first and largest international greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme, covering more than 10,000 power plants and industrial installations in 30 countries.
the trading system itself is synchronised and regulated to the extent that it operates on the principle of limiting the permitted amount of greenhouse gas emissions, the so-called quotas, that may be emitted by the various installations covered by the directive e.g.
the republic of croatia shall apply a single eu-wide greenhouse gas emission allocation quota at this stage.
by 2020, emissions are expected to be 21% lower than in 2005. such planned reduction of the number of allowances over time in a way that reduces the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions is certainly worth supporting
mr president, one of the important policies of the european union is the neighbourhood policy.
the eu-russia cooperation underway covers four important areas and the eu and russia are also cooperating on a number of challenges of bilateral and international importance, including climate change, the fight against drugs, trafficking in human beings, organised crime, the fight against terrorism, etc.
i believe that important progress has been made in all areas of cooperation over the past decade, with particular attention to be paid to energy security and the development of overall economic relations.
in addition to transport projects in bih, rich mines, the timber industry, the potential in renewable energy sources, potential oil and gas deposits, tourism, agriculture and food sales, the metal processing industry are waiting to be realized and participate in growth and development.
- transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods.
the aim of the naiades ii package is to create the conditions for inland navigation transport to become more efficient and sustainable.
madam president, i would disagree that this is not a climate policy debate but an industrial policy debate.
there is talk of both because this proposal is good for consumers and producers, but also for the environment.
it should be borne in mind that co2 emissions from other sectors have decreased significantly recently, and that road transport is one of the few that still has an increase in emissions and between 1990 and 2008 they increased by as much as 26%.
i thank commissioner hedegaard for the plan to reduce emissions by another 20% from 2020 to 2030, which i think is very good.
madam president, i support the report by mr ulmer on how to achieve the co2 emissions reduction target for new passenger cars by 2020. this sets clear standards for the production of new vehicles and also stimulates the development of technologies and eco-innovations that are crucial to maintaining the competitiveness of the economy.
road transport today accounts for one fifth of total co2 emissions in the european union, and unlike other sectors where emissions are falling, in transport they have increased by 23[nbsp ]% from 1990 to 2010. the measures provided for in the 2009 regulation and the introduction of carbon dioxide emissions into the motor vehicle taxation system have led to the emergence of lower-emission passenger vehicles and increased consumer awareness.
the report submitted clearly confirms the objective and the measures to achieve it by 2020, when we want to have new vehicles on the market with co2 emissions of up to 95 grams per kilometre.
from all of the above, i want to say that in croatia with the new tax, the special tax on motor vehicles, the cheapest vehicles are economic and environmentally friendly and therefore i believe that this report will contribute to both the economy and environmental goals.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should propose a new regulation on the use of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions trading system (eu ets) for the purposes of the eu ets.
consumers will have lower fuel costs, the environment will be protected by reducing carbon dioxide emissions, and the european union will reduce its dependence on imported fossil fuels.
the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and climate change, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on climate change.
i consider this decision necessary if we are to achieve the priority of eu fisheries policy, which is to strike a balance between ensuring a competitive fishing industry on the one hand and sustainable fish stocks and a sustainable marine ecosystem on the other.
he has proved himself in many sectors: financial, banking, energy, transport, agricultural, etc.
in particular, while co2 emissions from other sectors are generally decreasing, road transport is one of the few sectors where they are still growing, having increased by as much as 26% between 1990 and 2008. as a result, the sector is the second largest greenhouse gas emitter in the european union and contributes approximately one fifth of the total co2 emissions within the eu.
so what i'm glad about is that after 2020, the commission is continuing to look at how to reduce co2 emissions by another 20%.
madam president, i supported this report because the objective is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the measures set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
all the measures provided for are in line with the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, which emphasises the long-term target of reducing emissions by 80% by 2050. i also support the report's call for the development of support schemes to encourage the development and use of new and environmentally conscious innovative concepts, which should not, of course, have a negative impact on budgets.
- any action aimed at reducing pollution is a good and significant contribution to the union as a whole, but also to neighbouring countries.
the commission's proposal is not limited in time to the period up to 2020 but also covers the period after 2020. with this report, colleague thomas ulmer makes a significant contribution to reducing pollution of nature, which results in boosting the international competitiveness of the european economy as a whole.
i voted in favour because i believe that this document represents a win-win combination between technological development and a justified investment in environmental protection.
- i supported this report and the intention to contribute to further reducing co2 emissions from new vehicles in an economically and environmentally acceptable way, using modern and innovative concepts.
i welcome this proposal as one of the steps towards achieving sustainable growth and i am in favour of a more environmentally conscious union in the long term.
- i would like to express my support for this proposal as it contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the measures prescribed by the energy development strategy of the republic of croatia until 2020, the national energy efficiency programme until 2016 and the plan for the protection of the air, the ozone layer and the mitigation of climate change for the period 2013 to 2017. i also welcome the fact that a compromise has been reached on the emissions level for the new fleet among the political groups on this issue, and it has been confirmed that the target for 2020 should be 95gco2/kg, while the long-term target would be to achieve emissions in the range of 68gco2/kg to 78gco2/kg for the vehicles of the new fleet.
one way of achieving this objective and reducing emissions in general is to subsidize car manufacturers to produce ultra-low emission vehicles through so-called 'super credits' for low emission vehicles.
- studies have shown that the concentration of carbon dioxide in the earth's atmosphere has increased by more than 20 percent in the last 50 years alone.
such results indicate the need for action and i therefore support the proposal to amend the regulation on the determination of the means of achieving the co2 emissions reduction target for new passenger cars.
i see the target of 130 g co2/km after 2015 and 95 g co2/km after 2020 as a significant step towards reducing atmospheric carbon dioxide pollution and have therefore supported this proposal.
in addition to significantly reducing pollution, such a directive is expected to stimulate research and innovation in the automotive industry, thereby promoting green growth, creating jobs and ultimately strengthening the competitiveness of eu industry.
- i supported this report because i believe that the final trialogue has struck a healthy balance between environmental sustainability and technological and economic utility.
i particularly welcome the part of the report which directly affects small car manufacturers, by moving the limit for the application of excess co2 premiums from 500 cars to 1000, which i believe will give a positive economic and development stimulus to these manufacturers, whose impact on overall pollution is almost negligible.
the community trade mark system has been adopted by eu and third country traders and has become a successful and sustainable complement and alternative to the protection system of the member states.
- in an increasingly competitive environment, we are seeing an increasing number of brands at both national and eu level.
the aim is to make the european union an exemplary centre for research and innovation, to improve its position in the global competition for talent and to increase the overall competitiveness of the european union and sustainable development and growth.
poverty, inequality and social exclusion are key to achieving sustainable economic growth and increased employment.
the fund itself should not replace the policy pursued by member states' governments to limit the need for emergency food assistance and to set sustainable targets, and the policy to eradicate hunger, poverty and social exclusion.
the fead is intended to support the development of the union's energy policy and to contribute to the achievement of the union's objectives in the field of energy.
- the action of biocidal products is directed towards the control of undesirable organisms whose undesirable presence or harmful effect affects human health and activities, animals and the environment.
therefore, their placing on the market and use should ensure that biocidal products present on the market are sufficiently effective to control undesirable organisms, but also that they do not have an unacceptable effect on human and animal health and the environment.
i therefore support the report as it takes us one step closer to the successful use of biocidal products and to achieving the highest level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
- the biocidal products regulation represents a significant revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the use and availability of these products on the market, while ensuring a high level of protection for both humans and animals and the environment.
the health of citizens and the protection of the environment in which we live, and which future generations will one day inherit from us, are the key backbones of legislation relating to biocidal products.
- the commission has identified a significant number of errors of a technical nature in regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products adopted in 2012. the commission should be able to request the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
regulation (eu) no 528/2012 concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products with regard to certain conditions for access to the market introduced a substantial change in legislation and harmonised the rules that biocidal products must comply with in order to be placed on the market in the european union and to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment in general.
i am a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and this is a very important subject for me because i think we have to do everything in our power to protect the health of the citizens of the european union and to protect the environment as much as possible.
delegating powers to the commission can be of considerable political importance for european union citizens, businesses, entire sectors because of the potential socio-economic, environmental impacts.
for example, the shift of taxation from labour to consumption and particularly in activities that have adverse effects on environmental protection.
- i supported this report because the main objective of the 2014 annual growth survey is to achieve sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness that will lead to economic recovery in the european union and thus to the creation of new jobs.
the year 2014 is crucial for building smart, sustainable growth and increasing competitiveness.
structural reforms need to be complemented by more long-term investments in education, research, innovation and sustainable energy.
it is essential to promote sustainable vocational reforms for stability in the medium and long term.
partly because of the wrong approach to the economic crisis, and partly because of the lack of political will to implement measures that were good and sustainable in the long run.
the third thing i would like to look at is the recommendation on sustainable pensions.
the necessary reforms are needed to ensure the sustainability of pension systems in the light of the ageing trend in the eu.
it is necessary to continue differentiated fiscal consolidation that has a positive impact on growth, thus ensuring the long-term sustainability of the welfare state and public finances.
all member states need to perform better in order to promote sustainable and equitable growth and job creation.
however, such efforts require great care to protect human health and the environment.
- to meet future challenges such as food supply needs and climate change, it is of the utmost importance to have an effective and competitive plant breeding sector.
however, it remains essential to preserve and develop the diversity that exists in all regions of europe, both at the level of the agricultural ecosystem as a whole and with regard to genetic diversity.
accordingly, we are aware that drastic climate change is likely to occur in the future and that european agriculture will face major challenges.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its impact on the environment.
- the world's population is estimated to grow to 9 billion by 2050, which will result in a significant increase in the demand for food, accompanied by climate change.
to overcome these problems, a policy framework for the development of agricultural production with a particular focus on sustainability is needed.
because of climate change, the cultures we have today will have to adapt to new conditions.
the eu should play a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and promoting plant science and breeding.
the plant-growing industry is of fundamental importance for productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and the environment.
i come from the youngest member state of the european union, where the variety of climate, terrain and soil types allows the production of a wide range of agricultural products, from cash crops and industrial crops to vineyards, continental and mediterranean fruit and vegetables.
i therefore welcome the adoption of this action programme which puts the emphasis on a sustainable health system and looks at health not just as a consumer but as a sector with great potential for creating new jobs.
the economic environment is not yet conducive to job creation.
it is also important that our economies as a whole return to sustainable growth, which can help create jobs.
i agree that the key markets that need to be improved are the services market, the financial services market, the transportation market, the energy market and the digital market.
mr president, the key sectors defined by the commission are relevant to overall development, but i would certainly stress the importance of the single market in the transport and energy sectors.
the unity of the energy sector allows the full application of the principle of competition, while transport connectivity is a necessary prerequisite for exchange and development.
labour market reform involving the creation of a flexible and secure environment is one of the most common recommendations to member states under the european semester.
the priority areas of further integration important for the development of the single market are the services sector, the energy sector, the transport sector, the digital single market and the single european industrial policy.
mr president, i supported the report by our colleague mr cofferati on the governance of the single market in the european semester 2014 precisely because the single market is one of those main drivers of growth and jobs, that is, the basis of economic integration for sustainable growth in the european union.
key sectors such as services, financial services, transport, the energy sector and the digital market are crucial for the smooth integration and functioning of the single market.
i agree with the commission that the services market, financial services, transport, energy and digital markets are key sectors in creating the eu single market.
i also agree with the finding that the services, financial services, transport, energy and digital sectors are crucial to achieving growth.
- the european union's cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between regions, the backwardness of disadvantaged regions and economic, social and territorial cohesion, which promotes more balanced and sustainable territorial development.
in addition, the member states' reports give a clear overview of the socio-economic challenges they face, citing delays in research and innovation, rail, it services, energy and capacity building.
i support the report and consider it crucial to focus efforts on funding specific areas such as employment, especially youth, education and training, social inclusion, innovation of smes, energy efficiency and the building of ict infrastructure and digitalisation.
- the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports show that the development gap between europe's regions has widened as a result of the economic and financial crisis that hit most eu member states in 2008. in order to achieve the triple objective of economic growth (smart, sustainable and inclusive growth), based on research and innovation, the optimal and rational use of europe's energy resources and potential, and a proactive policy of job creation, the commission shall take action within the framework of the objectives of cohesion policy.
- the european union's cohesion policy is a lever for sustainable eu economic growth and a key instrument of the union in achieving the europe 2020 agenda.
i believe that cohesion policy in croatia can be a good driver of economic activity by stimulating youth employment and the labour market and promoting a sustainable economy and growth.
- cohesion policy, or as we also call it, solidarity policy, is the second most generous part of the european budget and aims to reduce regional inequalities and make economic development sustainable in the context of globalisation and more dynamic growth of all eu regions, especially nuts ii regions.
i therefore support the report by mr savisaar-toomast on the commission's seventh and eighth progress reports on eu cohesion policy and the 2013 strategic report on the implementation of the 2007-2013 programme and consider it necessary to focus efforts and increase investment at regional and local level in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment (especially youth), labour mobility, training, research, sustainable transport, environment.
i believe that the outermost regions have potential in the areas of biodiversity management and conservation, climate change adaptation and the development of renewable energy sources.
i therefore welcome the synergy with the life+ programme, which aims to co-finance innovative projects for environmental protection for the period 2014-2020. i also support the synergies with horizon 2020, which supports research, innovation and technological development, and the commission's decision to include the outermost regions in the trans-european networks with the aim of connecting them to the european continent.
i welcome mr omarajee's proposal to develop the potential of the outermost regions to strengthen economic and social development in a sustainable way.
- the objective of this report is to optimise the potential of the outermost regions and to increase their inclusion in eu programmes, in particular europe 2020 and horizon 2020. the eu's policy towards the outermost regions has so far been based on providing basic support through various cohesion policies and agricultural and fisheries support, so a new approach is needed that will encourage sustainable development in these regions through eu investment in new areas and expand opportunities beyond existing frameworks.
this would include the areas of tourism, renewable energy, telecommunications, biodiversity, research (seismology and volcanology) and innovation (aerospace).
such regions are often excluded from priority transport, telecommunications and energy corridors and thus deprived of funding from the connecting europe facility.
the agreement is particularly important in helping to fight for political and social stability and poverty reduction in the context of sustainable development.
this political dialogue and cooperation agreement consolidates political dialogue and economic cooperation between the parties to the agreement, promotes sustainable development for all stakeholders including civil society and the private sector.
this political dialogue and cooperation agreement consolidates political dialogue and economic cooperation between the parties to the agreement, promotes sustainable development for all stakeholders including civil society and the private sector.
this text covers many aspects of cooperation: political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, culture, education, environment, consumer protection, health and scientific cooperation, etc.
i believe that each member state should adhere to the guidelines set in order to create the conditions for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
- in 2010, the council supported the commission's proposal to develop and launch a new strategy for jobs and growth based on enhanced economic policy coordination and focusing on key areas where action is needed to increase the potential for sustainable development and competitiveness.
the guidelines are also important for croatia, which is in a difficult situation due to the large number of unemployed, which is 370 000. measures to help tackle this problem and move towards sustainable growth accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion need to be taken as soon as possible.
we need to focus on sustainable development accompanied by an increase in the number of employees and increased productivity and social cohesion.
- i would like to stress once again the importance of tackling unemployment in a coordinated way at european level, first and foremost by aligning our public policies on growth, promoting competitiveness, sustainable development and, above all, job creation.
this is primarily about economic policies that aim for smart, sustainable and inclusive development, accompanied by high employment, production and social cohesion.
the reasons for this were remoteness, raw material and energy dependence, the obligation to build up larger stocks, etc.
as an example of a global challenge in this sense, i would highlight the fight against climate change where the rapporteur recognises the key role of indonesia and the eu.
i welcome indonesia's growing role in the international climate change negotiations.
i believe that the eu and indonesia need to strengthen cooperation based on shared principles of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit in trade, industrial policy, environment, climate change, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture and that they need to jointly fight corruption and organised crime.
no other form of transport can boast the energy efficiency of rail.
in fact, railways have been the only means of reducing their carbon dioxide emissions since 1990, while all other modes of transport have increased their share.
finally, i support this report and would like to point out that the rail sector has even agreed to reduce its emissions by 30% by 2020. such measures are necessary to preserve the environment by establishing a single european railway area.
the single european transport area should facilitate the movement of citizens and freight, reduce costs and enhance the sustainability of european transport.
i believe that the eu transport system should constantly emphasise the importance of transport modes that have a less negative impact on the environment and contribute to the overall efficiency of the transport system and to the reduction of overall transport costs as part of the development of the overall eu transport infrastructure.
in conclusion, i support this report and would like to point out that rail transport plays a significant social and environmental role and a significant role in terms of mobility planning.
it can also significantly increase its overall share of european passenger transport, which would reduce environmental pollution compared to other modes of transport of people.
investing in sustainable transport modes not only benefits the environment and economic development but also stimulates growth and employment, which is of utmost importance in this time of crisis and unemployment.
to ensure financing for objectives of sustainable public transport plans, competent authorities have to design obligations to attain public transport objectives of a high quality and in a cost-effective manner.
i would like to highlight the environmental aspect throughout the union.
the plan is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2050 and co2 emissions by 60% compared to 1990 levels.
- the commission has set as its objectives for passenger and freight transport by 2050 a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% compared to 1990 levels, and the achievement of more than half of medium-distance travel by rail.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's environmental policy.
the union railway environment has undergone profound changes, brought about inter alia by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s.
- the railway environment in the union has undergone radical changes brought about, inter alia, by the three union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s.
in view of the current climate of lack of funding, it would not be a bad idea to retain the possibility of compensation to railway undertakings, but in this case, to leave this possibility to all railway undertakings.
the commission thinks that the regulation no longer respects the legal environment.
the european union-wide health programme finances a number of activities that contribute to the development of innovative and sustainable health systems, the quality and safety of health, the prevention of disease and the promotion of healthy lifestyles, and protection against cross-border health threats.
i support all kinds of investments in health because without a good health system, there is no sustainability, growth and development of society.
in particular, i welcome the projection of growth and competitiveness of the health sector in the economies of the member states of the union, as i believe that it will also contribute to a more innovative and sustainable health sector, to increasing citizens' access to health care, to disease prevention and to the promotion of good health.
i support the commission's proposal to create a 'connecting europe facility' to promote the completion and achievement of the energy, transport and digital infrastructure targets.
mr president, i supported this report because it supports the importance of investing in fast and very fast broadband networks under the cef, which is a programme designed to promote development in the areas of energy, transport and digital infrastructure.
this is the only way to achieve a stable and sustainable european economy.
it also requires investments in energy, transport, communication technology, services, and eco-innovation, which are also hugely important for economic growth and employment.
- to put the european union back on the path to sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, significant, long-term and large-scale investment is needed.
the long-term investments must be in line with the needs of the real economy in order to create the necessary foundation for sustained and sustainable economic growth and job creation, all with a view to achieving a competitive, sustainable and socially inclusive and innovative european union.
long-term investment provides the foundation for the social welfare and economic growth needed to achieve a competitive and sustainable future for the european union.
- long-term investment must be in line with the needs of our community's real economy in order to create the necessary foundation for sustained and sustainable economic growth and ultimately achieve the goal of all our economic strategies: a competitive, sustainable, socially inclusive and innovative european union.
these are serious obstacles to the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth we are striving for.
i support the rapporteur in her view that a strategy is needed to address, among other things, the following challenges: how to address the causes of conflict over natural resources and how best to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of exploitation.
it is also important that developing countries implement reforms and ensure environmental protection and human rights protection.
we need to prevent smuggling and illegal activities so that developing countries can benefit from participating in international initiatives for sustainable sourcing.
- the current international trade and investment system has highlighted the difficulties developing countries face in achieving their national interests and sustainable development goals.
the eu regulation would be an important step towards ensuring sustainable and responsible access to key natural resources for these companies.
only then will the local population not need smuggling or rebel groups to provide for their basic needs, but will it pay off to participate in international initiatives for sustainable sourcing.
i will support any political, economic and financial effort by the european union to help the ukrainians to find their own peaceful and sustainable way out of the deep crisis in which their country finds itself.
the european union is working towards the three strategic objectives set out in the europe 2020 development strategy, namely smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the scope of the tool has been reduced in relation to distance selling, but has been extended in relation to digital content through the inclusion of online contracts, and in line with the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy which aims to ensure inclusive and sustainable growth by enhancing the digital agenda of the european union.
mr president, i want to say that as a member of the committee on the environment and health i supported this proposal because this directive is very important and it is primarily about the health of our young people.
i agree that this is an important step by the eu to improve sustainable forest management globally and that the agreement sets new standards for indonesian forest management.
as with any new technology, like dynamite in the nineteenth century or nuclear energy in the twentieth, with this one we have a responsibility to try and use it as a society to build and advance society, not to destroy and kill.
the partnership agreement is helping the european union promote the effective sustainable management of forests while minimising unfair competition and deforestation.
the work of women in fisheries represents a significant economic value and contributes to the social, economic and environmental sustainability of many european communities and regions.
the citizens of the union have recognised this instrument, they are increasingly using it, and it is important to emphasise that environmental, fundamental rights and internal market issues are the three main areas of interest of the petitions submitted.
mr president, i have a positive opinion of this report and i thank you for it, given that the kingdom of saudi arabia and the european union are facing common challenges, but they are global in origin, such as migration, energy security and international terrorism.
the cooperation between the european union and saudi arabia is of course important not only in terms of trade, energy; it has a geostrategic dimension, it is important for regional stability, for the cooperation of the european union with other islamic countries.
but with all these considerations, geostrategic, energy, trade, it's really important to also raise the issue of respect for human rights.
i believe that the multilateral dimension of the eastern partnership should be strengthened, for the sake of the partnership itself, to foster a climate of cooperation, friendship and good neighbourly relations, and therefore the objectives of political association, and in particular economic integration, should be supported, and people-to-people contacts should be established, taking account of democratic reforms, but with the help of the rich experience of european countries and of the process of establishing democratic systems that we have also undergone.
therefore, it seems to me that the objectives we have defined here, namely, first and foremost, supporting regions and other countries in terms of local private sector development to support smes, social and economic infrastructure, climate change mitigation and upgrading all the comparative advantages that the eib has already proven to have, are very constructive in our external action.
in this context, alongside economic and social development, i am thinking in particular of improving environmental protection and eradicating poverty and improving human rights.
i support the changes proposed in the report, namely the targeting of guarantees to less creditworthy beneficiaries, stronger financing of climate change projects and a more concrete linking of eib financing with european union policies.
infrastructure, logistics, navigation, environmental impact and the need to stimulate new jobs and innovation in the inland waterway transport sector need to be improved.
i believe that the role of inland waterways would be enhanced by an increased use of waterways for the transport of goods and people, especially when innovative ships powered by alternative energy sources are used, which is the cleanest mode of transport.
the conditions for the operation of this sector need to be improved, including infrastructure, environmental protection, markets and innovation, business skills and integration in the logistics chain.
- the economic crisis has shown us how vulnerable we can be if, as a deeply interconnected community of states, we do not progress in a balanced way that ensures equally stable growth and long-term sustainable development for all parts of the european union.
the parties shall cooperate in the development of the relevant international standards and standards for the protection of human health and the environment, including the international standard for the protection of human health and the international standard for the protection of new varieties of plants.
this substantial agreement covers a wide range of areas of cooperation: environment (including climate research), biomedicine and health (including research on aids, communicable diseases and drug abuse), agriculture, fisheries science, technological research, non-nuclear energy, natural resources, materials science and metrology, information and communication technologies, telematics, biotechnology, marine science and technology, social science research, transport, science and technology policy, governance, training and mobility of scientists.
i hope that the successful cooperation will continue and will enable even greater progress in the fields of science and technology, both through the exchange of knowledge, methodologies and experience, and through the joint financing of scientific and technological projects of particular developmental interest, where i would particularly highlight cooperation on energy, which is extremely important in order to find more efficient and safer new sources of energy, which is of common interest not only to the united states of america and the european union but also to society as a whole.
this is also illustrated by the example of hungary, which allocated 0.9% of the budget for science and technology in 2008 and fell to only 0.75% in 2011. the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the acquisition of the rights of the defence and the protection of the environment.
the nagoya protocol was adopted at the international congress on biodiversity held in japan on 29 october 2010. the protocol relates to genetic material and resources to which sovereign states claim rights and regulates their use.
equal access and fair use will encourage biodiversity conservation and development.
- the nagoya protocol, an international treaty signed by the 28 eu countries, has as its primary objective the equitable sharing of the benefits of energy resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its availability in nature.
in this way, it contributes to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components in accordance with the objectives of the convention on biological diversity.
on the other hand, i supported the draft because the protocol's intention is to explore and conserve the genetic resources in the ecosystem, thereby also contributing to the preservation of the natural signal of biological units.
but regardless of the 'in situ' method of conservation, i stress that the use of genetic resources or genetic material from nature must not endanger the survival of the ecosystem or the population of species in their natural habitats.
the rapid development of mankind has led to the fact that today one in three species is threatened with extinction, since our actions simply lead to the disruption of the balance of a particular ecosystem and unpredictable consequences for its survival.
with some 38 000 known species, 101 of which are mammals, many different endemic species, and numerous ichthyophthalmos and ornithophthalmos, the republic of croatia is one of the richest european countries in terms of biodiversity.
yet, this biodiversity is also very fragile, and today, 14 percent of mammals, nearly 50 percent of bird species, 59 percent of freshwater and 28 percent of marine fish are considered endangered.
the objective of the protocol is to ensure a fair and equitable distribution of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in particular in terms of access to and transfer of relevant technologies, taking into account all rights over those resources and technologies and with appropriate means, thereby contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of genetic resources.
in this context, sustainable access to genetic resources is essential, as is increased trust of our international partners and a clear legal framework.
in this sense, the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity are fundamental principles of action.
madam president, (microphone off) on the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development and as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, it is recommended that this commission proposal be rejected, as there are problems with the structure of the proposal which allows the commission to adopt a large number of delegated acts at a later stage.
we need to focus more on enabling and encouraging biodiversity conservation in agriculture and horticulture, so i think this is a sensitive area to apply a one-size-fits-all approach.
since the issue of plant reproductive material involves the issue of biodiversity, natural and cultural characteristics, i consider it extremely irresponsible to start a comprehensive regulation of this vast area in such a short time.
madam president, it's a shame that the biodiversity measure has been returned to the european commission.
it is true that this may be better than decisions that may increase or work towards monopolizing seed production, which may well be an obstacle to the development of small producers who are the guardians of biodiversity in many fields.
the scope of this topic is not just about agriculture, but it affects the whole environment that surrounds us, not just the landscape, but some of the foundations that define it.
of course, decisions of such a significant scope are more successful if they are made from a position that is not only unmoved by the environment, but also removed from the field of spiritual ecology.
eu legislation on plant reproductive material must enable and encourage the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
- over the last few decades we have witnessed a massive loss of genetic diversity; the industrialisation of agriculture has created enormous environmental problems, while the agrochemical industry has continued to dominate the seed market.
i believe that the amendment of the directive is necessary to achieve the stability of the financial system in the european union, which is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and job creation.
the conditions for the operation of this sector need to be improved, including infrastructure, environmental protection, markets and innovation, business skills and integration in the logistics chain.
a revision of the current so-called third anti-money laundering directive of the european union was needed to further strengthen the internal market in order to make financial transfers more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment and to support the further fight against terrorism and organised crime and the strengthening of the financial system.
money laundering and terrorist financing are often conducted in an international environment.
it also promotes sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries.
- the activities of the european investment bank under this proposal shall contribute to the general principles of the union, in particular those laid down in article 21 of the treaty on european union (teu) where democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights are paramount, and to the policy objectives of the union, including the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, poverty eradication and the prosperity of the union in a changing world economic environment.
the entry into force of the nagoya protocol requires the european union to implement the convention on biological diversity, which aims to protect biological and landscape diversity, the sustainable use of its components, but also the equitable distribution of benefits arising from the use of genetic resources, as well as adequate access to genetic resources, including fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising therefrom.
in line with the objective of policy coherence for development set out in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, this regulation restores a fair balance between providers and users of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with such resources, while contributing to the conservation of biological diversity and the sustainable use of its components in accordance with the objectives of the provisions of the convention on biological diversity.
equal access and fair use will encourage biodiversity conservation and development, and i therefore support this report.
- it's a worrying fact that biodiversity loss is steadily increasing and accelerating.
for this reason, biodiversity needs to be preserved, and it is biodiversity that is the source of innovation and discovery in scientific research and technological applications.
i also support the view that a union profit-sharing fund should be established to collect and channel contributions towards the conservation of the world's biodiversity in the time until the establishment of the multilateral mechanism.
in conclusion, i support this report with the aim of establishing a fair balance between providers and users of genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with these resources, which contributes to the conservation of biodiversity.
increased biodiversity loss in daily life is on the rise.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to the measures taken by the member states in the field of biodiversity.
the eu should make a stronger contribution to preventing biodiversity loss.
genetic resources are the backbone of many economic sectors, including food production, forestry, biotechnology, development and production of medicines, cosmetics or the development of bio-based energy sources, and are one of the most important factors in the implementation of strategies designed to restore degraded ecosystems and protect endangered species.
the benefits arising from the sustainable use and conservation of genetic resources should be shared equitably and contribute to poverty reduction and thus to the development objectives of the nagoya protocol.
the adoption of a clear legal framework would benefit all users and ensure sustainable access to genetic resources and legal certainty throughout the chain.
the proposal is in line with the road safety conditions set out in the white paper 'guide to the single european transport area' with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
the proposed regulation aims to ensure increased road safety and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by defining minimum standards for roadworthiness tests of motor vehicles across the eu.
i supported this proposal by the commission to impose new rules on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers, and for motorcycles and scooters, all with a view to increasing road safety and higher environmental protection standards.
the changes it mentions with a view to enforcing road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection are more than positive.
the aim of this proposal is to improve road safety and to allow for better environmental protection, which would further improve the performance of roadworthiness tests and road checks.
- this proposal, as part of the 'feasibility package' for motor vehicles, aims to improve safety on european roads and protect the environment.
the vehicle must meet all the required safety and environmental standards before it is placed on the market.
this proposal is part of the technical package for the support and implementation of the usability testing of motor vehicles with the aim of improving road safety and environmental protection.
the vehicle shall be designed to meet the requirements of the relevant regulatory or individual approval requirements, which ensure an optimal level of safety and environmental standards, before it is placed on the market.
- the directive on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles is part of the 'motor vehicle technical suitability package' and aims to improve safety on european roads and protect the environment.
this will also relieve the burden on companies that own commercial vehicles that meet all safety and environmental standards.
in 2012, the commission presented a set of three legislative proposals aimed at strengthening road safety, environmental protection and fair competition by upgrading the current conditions for periodic roadworthiness tests, roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, and vehicle registration.
- the importance of statistical data is essential for a correct assessment of costs, unnecessary losses, and developments on the railways in all member states, especially in terms of the environmental aspect of this type of transport, given the increasing congestion, pollution, noise and co2 emissions, i believe that it would be more constructive to broaden the dialogue on the major problems facing many national railways, especially the newer eu member states, such as croatia.
i welcome this report because it is conducive to the sustainability of the agricultural sector.
- i particularly supported the report because the implementation of the common agricultural policy, in coordination with other european union policies, is an opportunity for croatian agriculture to exploit its full potential, and thus become more competitive and sustainable, while preserving its tradition.
food production is of strategic importance for stable economic growth and sustainable development in all eu member states.
the first concerns the protection of the environment.
- i support the proposal for a so-called qualified external protection, which is an external protection that prohibits the import of products that do not comply with the provisions of union law on food safety, environmental standards, animal welfare and social standards, and accordingly i consider the commission's power to delegate acts in the same segment to be justified.
i call on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities related to economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate action and resource efficiency, through the further development of new financial and non-financial instruments.
i hope that the full potential of the recent eur 10 billion capital increase will be put to good use for new lending linked to growth and jobs in sustainable sectors, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises.
i also welcome the clear division of responsibilities for the various interests of citizens, from environmental to financial difficulties.
the most common petitions cover issues related to: fundamental rights, disability and disabled persons' rights, citizenship, voting rights and freedom of movement, crisis, environment.
- i supported this report because it is important to promote the eu's horticulture sector and enable it to strengthen its competitiveness on the world market, through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, adaptation to climate change and measures to improve market placement.
in order to improve the overall situation, the emphasis should be on strengthening competitiveness on the world market through innovation, development, energy efficiency and security.
- i support this report because there are many challenges facing the european fruit and wine sector, from adapting to the effects of climate change to ensuring food on a global scale with a lower impact on the environment.
the kas is working on regional stability, the fight against terrorism, the stability of global energy and financial markets, but there is still room for raising the general level of awareness of human rights.
especially in economics, science, education, energy, transportation, environmental protection, security issues.
i think we've gotten answers to a frequently asked question about how the post-soviet transition will go, not just in russia, but in its geopolitical environment.
- only strong political and socio-economic reforms can contribute to building sustainable democratic institutions and strengthening public institutions and legislation in pakistan.
given the many challenges facing pakistan, i believe that there is a need to strengthen democracy and civil governance in pakistan and that serious measures are needed to build a sustainable democracy and social justice.
- i supported the report by mr boris zale because i believe that pakistan's role in the region and the eu-pakistan relationship have an important and growing impact on eu interests given the country's pivotal position at the heart of the volatile environment in which it finds itself, among other things, also the security of european citizens is in question.
however, at the same time, i believe that only deep and demanding reforms of pakistan's political and socio-economic order (2.5% of the population owns over 40% of the land) can lead to a sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society.
- eu-pakistan relations have an important and growing impact on eu interests, given the country's pivotal position at the centre of a volatile environment, its crucial importance for security and development in central and south asia, and its key role in combating terrorism, arms proliferation, drug trafficking and other transnational threats affecting the security and well-being of european citizens.
the experience of trade with third countries has also shown certain shortcomings in the three aspects of sustainable fisheries development: the social, economic and environmental aspects.
it also points to the importance of sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, respect for human rights, environmental protection, the fight against undeclared and irregular fishing, and compliance with sanitary and phytosanitary standards.
that is why i welcome this proposal, which ensures both economic benefits and sustainable growth.
this will contribute to improving the health and well-being of the population, the quality of food and the preservation of the environment.
this regulation needs to be adapted to the digital environment as it was adopted 19 years ago when less than 1% of eu citizens used the internet.
cross-border cooperation to protect the euro should create new mechanisms to stop euro counterfeiting processes and thus ensure a positive financial climate throughout the union.
preventing children from participating in conflict breaks the cycle of violence and is therefore crucial for our future, security, sustainable development and further peace.
as a representative of a country that was a victim of devastation not so long ago, i can confirm that armed conflict leaves long-lasting consequences for human security and sustainable development.
- i support this initiative by the environmental, health and food safety committee.
according to experts in the police community, the compromises of the informants are neither feasible nor sustainable.
according to experts in the police community, mr. droutsas's compromises are neither feasible nor sustainable.
compared to 2004, the single european sky could triple airspace capacity, halve air traffic management costs, increase safety 10 times and reduce the environmental impact of aviation by 10%.
the result would be shorter flight times, lower flight costs and fewer harmful emissions than air travel.
as i come from croatia where tourism is a major part of economic activity, this would greatly improve the quality and accessibility taking into account the environmental protection of the member states as tourist destinations, but also air travel in general.
this regulation lays down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky, focusing on the introduction of advanced safety standards in air transport, the development of a sustainable air transport system, the improvement of air traffic management (atm) and the improvement of air navigation services (ans) in the eu.
- this regulation lays down rules for the establishment and proper functioning of the single european sky in order to ensure the latest standards of aviation safety and to contribute to the sustainable development of the air traffic system and to improve the overall performance of air traffic management (atm).
mr. chairman, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i support this regulation because i think we need to think now and immediately about the quality of life of future generations and about the balance between industrial development and environmental protection.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the proposed amendments on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to take into account the impact of the amendments on the environment.
if we ensure that f-gases are replaced by safe alternative sources with no or less impact on the climate, annual emissions can be reduced by two thirds by 2030 at relatively low cost.
- fluorinated greenhouse gases, by some estimates, heat the atmosphere 23,000 times more than carbon dioxide.
and once released into the environment, they persist for thousands of years.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate action strategy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan.
the european union must continue to lead the world in ecology and the fight against climate change, and that is why i support this report.
- fluorinated greenhouse gases currently account for a small percentage of total greenhouse gas emissions in the european union and are predominantly used in areas of the union with warmer climatic conditions.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the amendment of the list of sources of fluorinated greenhouse gases to which the member states are party.
i hope that this, in addition to the obvious environmental benefits, will also provide support for the market for sustainable alternative fuels.
- i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on fluorinated greenhouse gases by mr bas eichhout because we have to face the fact that such gases are very aggressive towards the natural earth's mantle.
the role of fluorinated gases in the global warming process is enormous, mainly due to their relative greenhouse potential (gwp), which is 23000 times higher for gases such as sulphur hexafluoride or 6500 gwp of carbon dioxide (co2) for perfluorocarbon, and can persist in the atmosphere for thousands of years, making them very dangerous and undesirable for the preservation of the normal ozone layer.
the use of these gases in a number of industrial sectors and households has increased significantly and could reach up to 8% of global greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, up from 1.3% in 2004. such gases are exclusively anthropogenic because they could not be found in the atmosphere before the development of the industrial revolution, whereas their present concentration, for example in rh, is 72 pptv for sulphur hexafluoride, which is most associated with the production of magnesium, and 110 pptv for perfluorocarbon obtained from the production of aluminium.
with our responsible attitudes towards the present and the future, we must think and plan for the quality of life of future generations and strike a balance between industrial development and environmental protection.
- the aim of this regulation is to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases and to encourage innovation in sustainable technologies.
accordingly, this regulation lays down rules for the reduction of emissions, use, collection and disposal of fluorinated greenhouse gases and prohibits the use of those gases for specific purposes, while setting quantitative limits for the placing on the market of hfcs.
the increased use of fluorinated greenhouse gases has achieved the goal of replacing other substances that deplete the ozone layer.
fluorinated greenhouse gases currently account for only 2% of total greenhouse gas emissions in the union and are predominantly used in areas of the union with warmer climatic conditions.
mr president, this is a subject of particular interest to me as a member of the environment committee, but also as a representative of the youngest member of the union characterised by a secluded coastline combined with natural resources, which make our country an attractive destination for people of all interests.
it is important to strike a balance between the benefits of the project itself and its impact on the environment, while at the same time in its development aspects we have a task to inform citizens in a timely manner, this is very important.
the visual aspect shall be a key criterion in the assessment of the environmental impact of the preservation of the historical and cultural heritage of natural landscapes and urban areas.
mr president, i have supported the report by mr zanoni on the amendment of the directive on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects.
it builds on the europe 2020 strategy with a focus on sustainable development where we must ensure both a climate for investment and economic development, but at the same time protect the union's environment and natural resources and adapt to new environmental factors such as biodiversity, climate change and alignment with the principles of smart regulation.
the careful selection process for projects introduced by the directive should involve those with a real impact on the environment.
the commission should also be able to request the member states to provide information on the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment in the light of the current situation.
- climate change and environmental issues are of paramount importance to every citizen, and a healthy and high-quality environment is a public good that must be guaranteed for all present and future generations.
the assessment of projects and their environmental impact is an indispensable prerequisite for environmental awareness and i believe that the proposed directive goes in the direction of recognising the importance of shared responsibility for the environment.
with the enlargement of the european union, eu-level infrastructure projects have a natural and wider-ranging impact on the environment.
to ensure that a proactive approach to the assessment of projects and their environmental impact delivers good results, we need to establish an effective common policy with common control mechanisms.
the directive on the assessment of the effects of public and private projects on the environment is changing, since it was adopted in 1985 and needs to be brought into line with the political, legal and technical progress achieved in the meantime.
the european union is a global leader in ecology and 'green' development today and therefore needs to adapt its legislation to the goals we have set for ourselves in terms of sustainability, biodiversity and climate change.
the overall objective of the change is to adopt more harmonised and more efficient environmental impact assessment procedures.
the end result should be a directive with less administrative burden that will have a positive impact on the environment and human health.
today we know much more about how certain projects and interventions affect nature and quality of life, and therefore there is a need to extend the rules and standards for environmental impact assessment.
- directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects (eia directive) aims to ensure the environmental sustainability of projects falling within its scope; the directive therefore affects a wide range of industrial sectors such as energy, transport, construction, waste disposal, agriculture, etc.
the aim of the report is to adapt the provisions of the codified version of the directive to correct its shortcomings and to reflect ongoing environmental and socioeconomic changes.
- i supported the report which stresses the importance of maintaining biodiversity, strategic use of natural resources, prevention of disaster risk and other factors, and is introduced with the aim of protecting the environmental impact assessment of projects.
the new proposal for a commission directive on which this report is based calls on the competent institutions to specify the scope and level of detail of the information to be included in the environmental report.
in addition, obligations to assess reasonable alternatives to the project and to monitor significant adverse environmental impacts and administrative simplification are introduced.
it is important to administratively harmonise the environmental impact assessment of publicly funded public projects and to reduce unnecessary costs of private projects, some of which have a significant environmental impact.
- i welcome and support the report by mr zanoni, which aims to harmonise the principles for assessing the environmental impact of projects by introducing minimum requirements that contribute to a high level of protection of the environment and human health.
it is worth noting that in recent years, environmental issues have become more politically important, such as resource efficiency and sustainability, the protection of biodiversity, land use, climate change, and the risk of natural and man-made disasters.
therefore, i agree that environmental issues should be taken into account in the assessment and decision-making procedures of public or private projects that have an impact on the environment.
- in the last decade, environmental issues such as resource efficiency and sustainability, biodiversity protection, land use, climate change and the risk of natural and man-made disasters have become more prominent in policy-making.
it should therefore represent important elements in the assessment and decision-making processes with regard to any public or private projects that could have significant effects on the environment, in particular in relation to infrastructure projects.
in many cases, administrative procedures become overly complex and time-consuming, causing delays and creating additional risks for environmental protection.
however, i voted against this report because it retained the mandatory environmental impact assessment for shale gas exploration.
i believe that the eu is seeking to develop relations with non-member countries not only through external trade but also through a number of other channels such as environmental protection, various scientific research, the fight against illegal drugs and the like, but more effort can and must be put into each of the activities just mentioned.
the programme is a continuation of the gmes (global montoring for environment and security) project and will give us the ability to, inter alia, observe the earth's surface from orbit for the purpose of collecting information on natural and other disasters and coordinating efforts to mitigate their consequences.
- i support this report because copernicus, together with galileo, represents a great opportunity for the eu to provide information about our environment, monitor climate change, improve civil security, encourage investment by foreign companies and thus create new jobs, and stimulate innovation and growth.
the copernicus programme shall be implemented in accordance with the principles of the union's policy on climate change and the union's policy on the environment.
the european commission's proposal marks the beginning of the operational phase of satellite deployment, and the primary objective is to benefit european citizens in various areas, especially in environmental and climate change issues, which is why i supported this report.
- i supported this draft resolution because the copernicus programme contributes to environmental monitoring and protection and supports civil protection and security.
- i support the copernicus programme which aims to provide environmental information and to monitor natural or man-made disasters.
recent events, not only in europe, where for example croatia was hit by severe floods, but also on a global scale, confirm the need for a satellite navigation system that will give us access to information about climate change.
copernicus is the successor to gmes (global monitoring for environment and security), the 1998 earth monitoring initiative by the partnership between the eu, the member states and the european space agency (esa).
- i supported the report by the prodi mp on the copernicus programme 2014-2020 which is also being renamed gmes (global monitoring for environment and security).
the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. the allocation of this financial envelope to gmes demonstrates its importance and, in line with the europe 2020 strategy, contributes to the achievement of smart and sustainable development by developing a smart space policy to address key global shifts and take steps towards climate change and sustainable energy objectives.
the copernicus programme, formerly known as gmes (global monitoring for environment and security), provides for the monitoring of the state of the environment on land, at sea and in the atmosphere, and i strongly support it.
the program provides information on climate change and thus increases the security of all mankind.
in order to achieve its objectives, copernicus should rely on the union's autonomous space-based surveillance capabilities and provide operational services in the field of environment, civil protection and security.
satellite systems also make a major contribution to the development of sectors such as agriculture, transport, telecommunications, environmental protection, fisheries and many others.
i believe that it is the entrepreneurial incubators that create a positive entrepreneurial climate among young people in croatia because they develop business ideas, increase competence and competitiveness and enable self-employment of young people.
first of all, a high-quality political and economic access to the eastern partnership countries is an opportunity to defend the vital energy and security interests of the european union.
it is our duty and obligation to continue to provide the maximum support to the eastern partnership countries in their journey towards full democratisation, the rule of law and the development of a free and open civil society, which can only flourish fully in a dynamic and mature democratic environment.
that is why we are helping the eastern partnership countries in a practical way, facilitating trade with them, helping them on their way to energy independence, liberalizing the visa regime and allowing the free movement of citizens in these countries.
it is important that we are firm and determined, that we use the mechanisms of the eastern partnership for politics and for economics and for democracy and for energy security.
respect for international law, democratic principles, fundamental freedoms and human rights, independent legislation, the principles of a market economy, and sustainable growth and development are the fundamental values on which the european union was founded.
i therefore supported the priority statement for the union's relations with the eastern partnership countries, providing further support to their citizens and measures that will bring tangible results (such as the introduction of a visa-free regime) and cooperation in the field of energy.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission on the implementation of the union's energy policy.
- the european neighbourhood policy (enp), particularly in relation to the eastern european partnership countries, is based on a commitment to international law and fundamental values and the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, a market economy, sustainable development and good governance.
the eastern european partnership is by no means aimed at jeopardising bilateral relations with the russian federation, on the contrary, it is open to cooperation with moscow with the aim of establishing the most favourable conditions for the sustainable growth of a common neighbourhood.
i therefore believe it is important to regulate the environment for these changes, i.e.
volunteering is of utmost importance in times of political, economic and environmental crises that we face every day.
the aim is to promote cooperation between citizens and civil society organisations in the various countries, so as to encourage interaction and activity in a european environment that respects diversity.
the pilot project will also provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment, and will provide a platform for the exchange of information on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment.
turkey has the potential to play a key role in increasing the diversity of energy sources and routes for the transit of oil, gas and electricity from neighbouring countries to the eu, and there is also the potential to benefit from turkey's abundant renewable energy sources with the eu to create a sustainable low-carbon economy.
and certainly contributing to this is the fact that, thanks to climate change, the ice sheet has seen a 14% decline in the last 30 years.
the european union has both rights and obligations under international law in environmental and climate and research roles and an economic interest in this area.
- arctic policy is of paramount importance to the european union's economic and energy interests.
knowing that in recent years there has been a great interest in the arctic from countries in southeast asia, especially when it comes to the exploitation of arctic energy resources, this need is justified in many ways.
beyond economic and energy interests, the european union should continue to pursue policies that will mitigate the negative climate change affecting the arctic.
i therefore support all policies that go in the direction of protecting the environment and the interests of the european union.
- i agree that there is a need to consolidate the eu's arctic policy, as well as a comprehensive strategy and concrete action plan for eu participation in the arctic, paying particular attention to socio-economic and environmental issues.
ecological and biological areas need to be preserved and binding instruments to prevent pollution need to be put into effect.
by claiming the area in question, many countries around the world, not just the arctic ring countries, are trying to exploit some of the rich resources, which poses a significant risk and potential problem due to the significant potential for pollution.
i have a positive opinion of the motion for a resolution, but i would like to draw attention again to the potential pollution that could result from oil extraction.
the climate conditions there, the winter, are still a great enigma to man, and it is very difficult to cope with the demands of business in extreme conditions where temperatures often fall far below freezing.
i have fond memories of the gulf of mexico and the environmental disaster, and i think with great trepidation of all the problems that would occur if something similar happened there.
i believe that potential disruption would be impossible to clean up, which would automatically mean that such a fragile ecosystem would be completely devastated.
in addition, the disposal of unnecessary chargers is an environmental problem.
the most important thing for immigrants and asylum seekers to feel accepted in their new environment is to provide them with education, employment, language training and housing.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
i agree with the report that the hong kong convention is not an ideal solution for the european union, but i think it is an important step towards achieving global environmentally sound practices in the recycling of waste ships.
in this context, it is of particular importance that facilities in non-oecd countries comply with high environmental standards in recycling.
the purpose of this regulation is to minimise the harmful effects of ship recycling on human health and the environment, and i therefore support it.
as croatia is a maritime country, i support this regulation which would protect croatian ports and anchorages and prevent pollution of our sea.
i also agree with the fact that safety and health protection of the eu's people and marine environment must be increased over the life of the ship.
it is of particular importance that hazardous waste generated from ship recycling be secured and disposed of in an environmentally sound manner.
this regulation would protect people and the environment from the possible harmful effects of materials on board ships calling at a port or anchorage of a member state.
the need for sustainability of public finances and adequate social protection for citizens is also highlighted.
i did not support this report because it contains many paragraphs with which i disagreed, in particular the commission's call for the international labour organisation (ilo) and the council of europe to draw up a report on possible corrective measures and incentives to improve the social situation, the procedure for securing funds and the sustainability of public finances in those countries, as well as the call for compliance with the said legal obligations laid down in the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights.
it is also very simple to understand that growth will not happen until investment starts and until businesses and citizens feel that their living conditions are better and that the market is sustainable.
employment, growth and social issues are interrelated themes and understanding their interaction will be key in building a strategy for a sustainable european future.
employment rates play a crucial role in the sustainability of social protection and pension systems and in the achievement of the europe 2020 social and employment objectives.
the joint asylum and immigration policy action, which is based on solidarity between member states, third countries and their nationals, creates a link that allows the creation of a free and secure environment.
the commission's communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment for the year 2013 is a good example of the importance of the european year of the environment and the european year of the environment for the union.
investment in security infrastructure is also important for sustaining vital economic and social activities in the fields of energy, transport, banking, finance and the like.
the proposed harmonisation of the standard will reduce costs for consumers in the future, increase energy efficiency and significantly reduce the amount of e-waste.
mobile phones, and reduce waste and costs.
the report identifies the drivers of sustainable growth such as education, mobility, research and innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, and emphasises that the main thrust of the new budget is to provide citizens with the means to overcome the crisis.
to create sustainable growth and employment opportunities with the aim of boosting competitiveness and increasing economic and social cohesion across the european union.
given that the budget is being reduced in times of economic crisis both at the level of croatia and at the level of the eu as a whole, i believe that the costs must be carefully analyzed from the standpoint of sustainability and efficiency.
it is also important to invest in future sectors such as renewable energy, infrastructure, communication technologies and long-term investments to strengthen the economy and create new jobs.
- i support the report in that it calls for all programmes and expenditure to be carefully analysed in terms of their sustainability, efficiency and effectiveness, provided that this does not constitute an additional bureaucratic burden, as i believe that, given the lack of funds and fiscal consolidation policies, it is necessary to focus on those programmes which will prove to be the most productive.
- i supported the report on the role of property ownership and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development because i believe that one of the global goals is to eradicate poverty in developing countries and establish the rule of law, especially in the area of real estate and property ownership.
- as explained in the report on the role of property ownership and wealth creation in poverty eradication and sustainable development, property rights can be defined as the rules governing the ways in which individual stakeholders, communities and public and private actors acquire and maintain access to tangible and intangible property through formal law or customary regulations.
land management is closely linked to the major challenges of the 21st century, namely food, energy, population growth, environment and climate change.
i also believe that property rights regulation will improve the business climate, stimulate entrepreneurship and encourage innovation in developing countries.
on the other hand, it is indisputable that securing ownership rights will increase the level of responsibility of those who cultivate it and encourage long-term and sustainable investments in land.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests, and to assess the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment.
i am particularly pleased that fisheries are among the priority areas of action and that the importance of harmonising standards for environmental and social sustainability and transparency in eu waters is highlighted.
harmonised policy is considered to be a global policy tool and process aiming at integrating the multiple dimensions of development into all policy development stages, and union policies themselves must be designed to meet the long-term needs of developing countries by combating poverty, ensuring social welfare and decent incomes and guaranteeing respect for fundamental human rights as well as economic and environmental rights.
madam president, i am not an expert on greenhouse gas emissions, but having followed developments in this field for decades, i believe that, and perhaps my colleague, the previous speaker, will support me in this, that is my question: by setting up legislation, by taking various measures, is the issue of the spiritual ecology perhaps very important and neglected in all our actions, perhaps at a global level, not just in the european union?
although the lisbon treaty contains many novelties, there is a notable lack of progress in the consistency of the union's external action in areas related to development, trade, energy, the environment, migration and other global issues.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
furthermore, as a member of envi, i believe it is essential to build a solid foundation for successful negotiations and continued progress in the field of emission reduction and environmental protection.
the 2015 unfccc will need to strengthen strategies to continue to take care of the environment responsibly.
the 69th session addressed important issues of the day - from the guarantee of civil privacy, which has become a burning issue due to recent discoveries, to climate change, which has been a challenge to society for years.
sustainability was arguably the main theme of this assembly, not only in terms of sustainable development and ecology, but also in terms of resolving long-standing and unfortunately often bloody conflicts from south sudan and the central african republic to the gaza strip and the west bank.
while i support the broad principles of pluralistic electronic media in defence of freedom of expression and objective news gathering, in particular financially sustainable and independent public broadcasting, i believe that broadcasting should be a competence of the member states.
if other environmental impacts are ignored, on rural roads traffic noise is not as much of a problem as in cities where, due to relatively short distances and relatively high traffic density and the inability to build adequate protection (e.g.
hedges and embankments), noise can have a very negative impact on residents and the environment.
noise pollution is becoming a growing problem in urban areas.
it is estimated that one fifth of eu citizens suffer from noise pollution that scientists consider inadequate, and 50% of citizens in urban areas are exposed to noise above 55 db.
the aim of the proposal is to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles.
- although the development of the automotive and related industries has done much to reduce noise pollution, i believe that continuous improvement is needed both technologically and in legislation.
the aim of this report is to protect public health and the environment by reducing the noise level of motor vehicles.
although this is mostly a formal legislative procedure, i particularly welcome the amendment which emphasises that eu trade with bangladesh must be aligned with the eu's development cooperation objectives, namely the promotion of sustainable development and good governance in developing countries and poverty eradication.
the union aims to pursue common policies and activities to promote sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries, with a view to reducing and eradicating poverty in the long term, which the regime presented in this report seeks to achieve.
this regulation is also based on the recognition of the right of small farmers and farmers to a decent income, a safe and healthy working environment.
the effective implementation of international conventions on human and labour rights, environmental protection and good governance is also important.
i agree with this regulation because it is based on the recognition of the right of small farmers and farmers to a decent income and a safe and healthy working environment.
it is necessary to extend the classic national measurements to key aspects of sustainable development and thus develop consistent environmental economic accounts.
achieving social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way is an imperative for the european union.
the need to monitor the causal and consequential links between the economy and the environment is fully evident, and i therefore support the proposal to amend regulation no 691/2011 by introducing three new accounts which will make a significant contribution to building a robust instrument for measuring environmental-related changes.
i believe that a wider application of environmental accounting will contribute to a more efficient management of resources.
in order to influence policy-making and raise public awareness of the environmental impacts of the economy, it is important to collect reliable and understandable data.
- the economic aspect of environmental costs must be taken into account in calculating the structural situation of a country.
the environmental issue can be applied not only to the implementation of measures aimed at protecting the environment, but also to the inclusion of environmental factors such as costs and benefits.
energy saving, environmental protection and the use of alternative energy sources can become the driving force behind growth and development for countries if they are supported by appropriate european and national legislation.
- i supported the report on the european economic and environmental accounts.
- given that gdp is no longer considered a sufficient indicator of the progress and well-being of people in the world, the european council in 2006 called on the european union and its member states to extend the traditional national accounts to the integrated economic accounts for the environment.
the regulation on european environmental economic accounts entered into force in july 2011 with the introduction of the first three modules: air emission accounts, environmental charges and material flow accounts.
following the entry into force of this regulation, eurostat, together with the member states, started to carry out pilot studies in the first three modules referred to in article 10 of the regulation: environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the energy flow physical energy account.
- i supported the report by mrs antonescu on the amendment of the regulation on european environmental economic accounts which recognises the need to introduce new economic and environmental parameters in measuring the progress of society and the quality of life of citizens.
the report submitted complements the regulation with three new application modules ready for implementation, namely: environmental protection costs; environmental protection goods and services; and energy flow calculations.
although at first sight this report seems very technical, it will provide a better understanding of the sustainable economic development of the member states and the european union as a whole in line with environmental protection objectives.
the recent weather disasters in croatia, where ice and snow destroyed most of the timber in gorski kotar in february, illustrate the need to include economic and environmental parameters in progress assessments.
the damage estimated at almost eur 200 million will generate some economic growth, but not the activities we want in this area and which ensure sustainable development.
in view of all this, i support the report and believe that by applying new modules in environmental economic accounting we will create a better basis for the development of public policies for sustainable development.
- the aim of the policy's diverse application is to use data from environmental accounts, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the european union.
the use of data from environmental accounts should in particular highlight the example of domestic material consumption resulting from material flow accounts as the most important key indicator of the resource efficiency initiative in coherence with the eu 2020 strategy, which aims to achieve climate and material objectives in equal measure, while ensuring sustainable economic growth.
- data from the environmental accounts are used for a variety of policy applications, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the union.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy.
the purpose of this report is to amend the existing regulation by adding three new reporting modules: environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow account.
accordingly, i support the need to develop instruments aimed at raising public awareness of the environmental impacts of economic activities.
- space debris has become a serious threat to the sustainability of space activities, the availability of the best orbital positions, the radio frequency spectrum and the opportunity to launch spacecraft.
i also believe it's important to take a cue from the united nations guidelines on space waste reduction or other international initiatives to ensure space sustainability.
- space debris has become a serious threat to the sustainability of space activities, the availability of the best orbital positions and radio frequency spectrum, and the opportunity to launch spacecraft.
the ministry of agriculture, fisheries and rural development is responsible for the implementation of the agricultural policy of the government of the republic of croatia and one of the objectives is to ensure the health and quality of food and the protection of the environment and natural resources.
the union's financial means may be used to contribute to one of the following objectives: a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain and food production systems; the prevention and eradication of disease and harmful organisms; ensuring a balance between a high level of protection for consumers and the environment; improving union access to food and feed; and promoting union competitiveness in industry and job creation.
wood is used mostly for energy purposes (42[nbsp ]%), 24[nbsp ]% is used for sawmill needs, 17[nbsp ]% for the paper industry and 12[nbsp ]% for the wood panel industry.
- illegal logging - the cutting, transporting, selling and buying of trees, in violation of applicable national laws - has serious consequences for the environment.
it contributes to deforestation and forest degradation, causing about 20% of global co2 emissions and threatening biodiversity loss.
illegal logging is costing governments significant amounts of money that could otherwise be invested in better health, education, and other public services (of particular importance to developing countries), and it is undermining efforts to implement sustainable forest management.
at the european union level, major efforts are being made to improve safety standards for nuclear power plants and to ensure safe and responsible nuclear waste management and disposal.
- further development of legislation on the safety of nuclear installations must take into account a transparent and democratic decision-making process as in the field of other energy sources.
i believe that in the wake of the recent nuclear accident in fukushima, and of historic accidents such as chernobyl and three mile island, it is extremely important to ensure citizens' confidence in nuclear energy through stronger and more efficient monitoring systems, and that is why i support this report.
- nuclear energy is a source of energy which the union and the member states must treat on an equal footing with other sources of energy in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
the resolution of the european parliament on safety and risk assessments of nuclear installations within the eu and related activities refers to the clearly visible risks from nuclear waste generated by the fukushima nuclear accident and stresses that the commission should find a place for the safest possible storage of radioactive material.
we are faced on a daily basis with new threats and rapid technological changes affecting the creation of a common market for dual-use goods, so we need to modernise and further harmonise our systems to reduce distortions and to develop a sustainable model for export controls to third countries.
- greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly and currently account for about three percent of total greenhouse gas emissions.
the international civil aviation organization (icao) estimates that co2 emissions from aviation have almost doubled between 1990 and 2006. unfortunately, of all forms of transportation, aviation's greenhouse gas emissions are the most tightly regulated.
the commission proposes that the proposal for the adoption of ets 'stop sat' legislation, which means a temporary derogation from the provisions of the ets of directive 2003/87/ec, facilitates the process at international level towards global market-based measures (gmms) for aviation emissions.
the european union has so far followed its commitment to the challenge of climate change, and i believe that this agreement can be improved.
namely, it is important to build trust in the internet environment which is crucial for today's economic and social development.
this is partly due to the rise of a multipolar international scene with new actors pursuing regional and global ambitions, then the increasing struggles for energy security, the increasingly severe effects of climate change and the severe and protracted global financial and economic crisis.
i believe that in such a geopolitical climate, the eu must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security and well-being of its citizens.
we are aware of the geostrategic changes taking place and therefore in such a geopolitical climate the eu must protect and promote its ideas, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security of its citizens.
- on the global stage today, we are witnessing a number of political tensions and a variety of threats including the increasingly serious effects of climate change.
in the face of the growing struggle for energy and resource security, the increasingly severe effects of climate change and the severe and protracted global financial and economic crisis affecting all member states, the eu must preserve and promote its values, interests and stability on the global stage, as well as protect the security and well-being of its citizens.
- the cotonou agreement, as the framework for the union's relations with third countries, has set as its main objective the reduction and ultimate eradication of poverty in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the progressive integration of developing countries into the world economy.
the evaluation of projects in sub-saharan africa in 2012 showed improvements in project design, relevance and sustainability, but only slightly more than half of the projects were rated as good or very good.
the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom on the application of the state aid rules to the aid scheme for the production of electricity from renewable sources.
the court of auditors has also made a number of recommendations to the commission, including the following: parliament recalls the need for the budgetary and legislative arm of the court of auditors to provide not only a statement of assurance on the reliability of financial statements, but also reliable and sustainable opinions on the results obtained by the various union policies.
i particularly welcome the committee's activities on energy consumption, given the knowledge that all electricity is supplied from renewable sources, which i personally would like to see in practice in all other institutions and bodies of the european union.
to maintain the quality and success of this important function, it is crucial to ensure sustainable and efficient funding and i am therefore pleased that the court of auditors commends the ombudsman's financial management.
- the third energy package, which established the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, aims to provide an effective regulatory framework for the development of an open and competitive energy market within the union.
at the opening of the agency, energy commissioner günther oettinger stated that his priority was to remove all barriers to the internal energy market so that energy could flow freely throughout the union.
the agency is tasked with ensuring that the principles of the eu single market function in the trade and distribution of renewable and non-renewable energy sources while, at the same time, assisting national regulatory authorities (in croatia, hera) to carry out their regulatory functions at a pan-european level.
the agency's other activities, such as removing technical barriers to cross-border energy trade, coordinating the activities of national energy regulators and helping to resolve potential conflicts between them, require special attention.
in the internal energy market, we must remove all barriers to allow energy to flow freely throughout the union, and the single european energy market must become our reality.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the european environment agency aims to ensure quality and independent environmental information.
it is a key source of information for all actors, including the general public, involved in the development, adoption, implementation and evaluation of environmental policy.
the agency assists the community and the member states in making informed decisions on improving the environment by integrating environmental issues into economic policies and by coordinating the european environment information and observation network.
i support the discharge given by the european parliament to the executive director of the european environment agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. the agency's final budget for the financial year 2012 is eur 41 700 000, representing an increase of 1,25% compared to the previous year.
- the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 is eur 41 700 000, representing an increase of 1,25% compared to the 2011 budget.
the commission should also be able to take into account the impact of the use of public transport on the environment and the environment in general.
i take note that the centre has continued to streamline and reduce maintenance costs by reviewing the safety settings and reducing energy consumption.
the total union contribution to the authority's budget for the financial year 2012 was eur 6 408 000, representing a decrease of 5,54% compared to 2011. i agree with my colleague sarvam that the authority's role in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the stability of the financial system and in enabling safe operations in the european securities market is crucial to achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe.
- having regard to the opinion of the court of auditors that esma's annual financial statements in all material respects present an objective view of esma's financial position for 2012 and that the annual financial statements for 2012 are legal and regular in all material respects, i am voting in favour of the proposal to close the accounts of the european securities and capital markets authority for the financial year 2012. the role of esma in promoting the stability and security of financial markets and the financial system is crucial for achieving economic recovery and creating sustainable jobs and growth in europe, but also requires the adoption of corrective measures in the planning and implementation of the budget and greater transparency in the recruitment process.
- euratom as a mechanism for the development of nuclear energy through a system of redistribution and sale of surplus energy and as a mechanism for financing nuclear projects within the european union is of great importance for the future of energy and the sustainable development of the union.
i hope that the development and exploration of this extremely important energy source will progress and help europe in its goal of sustainable energy growth.
- parliament welcomes the activities of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions in 2012, such as the launch of new projects linked to priority themes such as the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and the sustainability of the public sector.
the agency has launched new projects related to priority themes related to the social consequences of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and a sustainable public sector.
the foundation's contribution to the promotion of knowledge in living and working conditions in the union and to working conditions research, which contains relevant findings on trends in job quality, sustainable work and the ageing of the workforce, is of great importance.
- the artemis joint undertaking was established in 2007 with the aim of defining and implementing a 'research plan' for the development of key technologies for the integration of computer systems across different application areas, which would result in enhancing european competitiveness and sustainability, and allowing the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
this programme is particularly important in the context of the single european sky and the targets of 50% and 80% emission reductions by 2020. given the important environmental objectives pursued by the programme, i am pleased with the court of auditors' conclusion that the programme's management and financial procedures have improved and i hope that this trend will continue and that the reduction of harmful emissions will be in line with the target set.
- research and development in nanoelectronics is important for the development and competitiveness of the european industry from semiconductors to nanotubes, with results that have a visible impact on computer performance, increased speed and quality of signal transmission and perhaps even more efficient energy production, if nanoelectronics are properly exploited in the field of solar cells.
the main objective of the joint undertaking is to define and implement a 'research agenda' to develop key competences for nanoelectronics in different application areas in order to increase european competitiveness and sustainability and to enable the emergence of new markets and societal applications.
- the idea behind the fuel cell and hydrogen joint venture is to use a public-private partnership to develop hydrogen and fuel cell energy technologies to become commercially viable.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the joint undertaking's activities in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
- iter, which means 'way' in latin, is a joint venture established for international cooperation on one of the world's largest fusion energy projects, which has the potential to provide a sustainable solution not only to european but also to global energy needs.
- i welcome this discharge as it indicates significant progress on the management and allocation of the iter joint undertaking and the development of fusion energy.
the goals of this system are to reduce carbon dioxide emissions to preserve the environment, to increase fuel efficiency, and to reduce average flight times.
airplanes consume more fuel, increase their emissions, pay higher fares, and suffer longer delays.
i agree with the high commissioner that there is a need to establish a sustainable dialogue with iran and to encourage dialogue on a wide range of issues, in particular those relating to the protection of minorities and the protection of people in general.
the union must help create an environment for the proper functioning of civil society organisations and make greater efforts to promote democracy and respect for human rights and the rights of national minorities.
the committee on budgets thank you, mr president, the proposal to prepare alternative fuels infrastructure is an important step in ensuring sustainable mobility across the union.
the ultimate objective is to ensure sustainable development, create new quality jobs and invest further in research.
the investment and promotion of alternative fuels should be one of the union's priorities not only for environmental reasons such as the reduction of greenhouse gases, but also to ensure a sustainable energy supply to europe.
in doing so, the european union must protect producers, especially small ones, who produce their food in a clean and safe environment in an environmentally sound way and facilitate the application of the proposed measures.
thank you, mr president, as a representative of croatia, where the business and investment climate is seriously affected by high taxes and the unpredictability and instability of the government's fiscal policy, i fully support this report.
i regret that croatia does not implement the aforementioned directives, although the current government adopted the energy law in line with the acquis of the european union in 2012, but unfortunately without implementing regulations.
in the energy sector, contract termination procedures should be simplified, electronic invoicing introduced and price changes made more transparent, while in the telecommunications sector, the importance of setting up new infrastructure and facilitating switching service providers without additional charges should be emphasised.
the reserve funds must also be used to enhance the multiplier effect of grants financed from the union budget and the same effect of the european investment bank's financial instruments for measures supporting innovation in the field of vessels, including the development of vessels adapted to river navigation, and their adaptation to technical progress essential for the preservation of the environment and the reduction of pollution as a whole.
- transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods.
i welcome the idea of creating an environment that encourages the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and all business entities.
- the shfit2rail joint undertaking (s2r) should be a public-private partnership aimed at encouraging and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the rail sector, creating new employment opportunities, accelerating and facilitating the transition to a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu rail market.
the aim of shift2rail is to contribute to the development of the most sustainable mode of transport of goods and passengers, namely rail, through research and innovation, thereby strengthening the competitiveness of european companies and maintaining europe's leadership in the global rail market.
the commission notes that the project is part of the 'clean energy' initiative, which aims to improve the energy efficiency of buildings by reducing the use of fossil fuels and by improving the energy efficiency of buildings.
madam president, the european union is very concerned about protecting the environment and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and so we in the committee on the environment have also dealt with this issue and concluded that it is of the utmost importance to reduce the use of fossil fuels and to build the infrastructure to make the use of alternative fuels as widespread as possible.
the use of electricity and sustainable energy sources is of particular interest from the point of view of electric vehicles, especially those intended for public transport.
- the eu's target is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 60% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
member states should aim to reduce energy consumption, in particular oil and oil products consumption in the transport sector, as well as the introduction of public transport services by electric vehicles.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's energy market.
the idea is to achieve europe's energy independence, given that more than 80% of petroleum products used in transport in europe are imported.
the main objectives of the proposed directive are to reduce emissions of harmful gases, to ensure the security of own resources and to increase competitiveness in the face of the much lower prices of alternative fuels compared to petroleum derivatives.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environmentally sustainable use of energy.
madam president, i supported the report by my colleague jörg leichtfriede because heavy goods vehicles are responsible for about 26% of co2 emissions from road transport in europe and their fuel efficiency has in most cases not improved in the last 20 years.
improved aerodynamics of the cabin of motor vehicles would allow for significant improvements in the energy efficiency of the vehicle and i fully support the rapporteur's view that it is of the utmost importance to reduce vehicle emissions in the road freight transport sector as a matter of urgency.
in the case of vehicles equipped with a technology to reduce co2 emissions, it should be allowed to exceed the maximum permissible mass by up to one tonne depending on the mass required for that technology.
- heavy goods vehicles are responsible for approximately 26%[nbsp ] of co2 emissions in road transport in europe, and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved in the last 20 years.
the new design should also include structures for absorbing energy in the event of a collision.
- heavy goods vehicles are responsible for approximately 26% of carbon dioxide emissions from road transport in europe, and their fuel efficiency has hardly improved in the last 20 years.
these data make it clear that we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport as soon as possible.
i also agree with the directive's framework idea that improved motor vehicle aerodynamics would allow for significant improvements in vehicle energy efficiency.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related impacts of the measures.
in view of the eu's energy costs, i believe that we need to establish conditions for the use of engines that are less harmful to the environment, build infrastructure for vehicles powered by alternative fuels, adapt the rules and laws on vehicle dimensions and masses to allow for better vehicle usability, the installation of alternative powertrains in vehicles and greater safety for all road users.
in the same year, 8926 million tonne kilometres of goods were transported by road, both domestically and internationally, with a significant impact on transport infrastructure, energy costs and environmental pollution.
issuers of money market instruments will benefit from a more stable environment that preserves the role of mmfs as a financing instrument.
- transport by river and canal is also an energy efficient way of transporting goods.
the reserve funds must also be used to enhance the multiplier effect of grants financed from the union budget and the same effect of the european investment bank's financial instruments for measures supporting innovation in the field of vessels, including the development of vessels adapted to river navigation, and their adaptation to technical progress essential for the preservation of the environment and the reduction of pollution as a whole.
the objective of the research and development programme in the field of active and supported living is to improve the quality of life of older people, their carers and to increase the sustainability of the care system by improving the availability of ict-based products and services for active and healthy ageing.
it is important to note that the programme can help older people to adapt their lifestyle, health management and working environment to ageing in order to be able to participate in the economy, society and live at home for longer.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's energy supply and demand, in particular by examining the impact of the measures taken by the member states on the union's energy supply and demand.
the main obstacle to sustainable development in developing countries is poverty-related diseases, which represent a social and economic burden.
- sustainability reporting is indeed a key step towards achieving a sustainable world economy by linking long-term profitability with social justice and environmental protection.
sustainability reporting helps measure, monitor and manage the performance of a company and has a positive impact on society.
the disclosure of non-financial data improves the corporate governance system and internal policy, thereby reducing negative impacts on society, the environment and human rights.
in order to increase the consistency and comparability of non-financial data, undertakings should be obliged to include in their management reports non-financial data containing information on the impact of activities relating to environmental, employee, human rights, anti-money laundering and anti-corruption issues.
finally, it is also useful for companies and groups to include in their non-financial statements aspects relating to environmental protection, social aspects, employment policies that include people with additional needs, gender equality and respect for human rights, as well as issues of corruption and bribery and measures to combat these phenomena.
- entrepreneurs have an impact on the environment and society.
so i think we should publish sustainability reports alongside financial reports, which are now fairly transparent.
this step is indeed crucial to managing change and achieving a sustainable world economy by linking long-term profitability with social justice and environmental protection.
sustainability reporting helps measure, monitor and manage the company's performance and the impact it has on society.
the commission's proposal is contained in two key elements, firstly as including non-financial information in its reports when they relate to environmental and social issues, and to issues of respect for human rights, bribery and corruption.
the commission is striving to achieve a comparable level of transparency of social and environmental information provided by businesses to their sectors across all member states to ensure the conditions through the single market act twelve actions to stimulate growth and strengthen confidence: working together to create new growth.
i believe that in its personnel policy, a company should be guided solely by the expertise and ability of its personnel and not by other circumstances marked by ideology that have no place in a healthy and rational business environment.
freedom of movement of people as one of these freedoms is the foundation of the new social order which i absolutely support because only through synergy and close cooperation can we achieve sustainable development, both at the level of the member states and at the level of the european union as a whole.
the provisional evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking has shown that it is successful in promoting development towards environmental objectives.
the interim evaluation of the clean sky joint undertaking has shown that it is successfully driving development towards environmental objectives, leading to new forms of cooperation and involvement of new organisations.
the future of the company is to do business in a sustainable way.
the energy and product production sector is dominated by petroleum products and other fossil fuel sources.
to reduce this, the bioeconomy encourages the production of bio-products and biofuels that partly replace renewable sources.
this would ensure lower risks for private investment in research and innovation in developing sustainable and competitive bio-based products and biofuels and allow for benefits to all stakeholders, including those from rural areas.
- i supported the joint technology initiative on biotechnology, which should be a public-private partnership with the aim of increasing and scaling up investment in the development of a sustainable bio-industry sector in europe, as the bio-industry can make a significant contribution to achieving the goal of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by 2020. it should provide environmental and socio-economic benefits for european citizens, increase europe's competitiveness and contribute to establishing europe as a key player in the research, demonstration and deployment of advanced bio-based products and biofuels.
in order to maximise its impact, the bio-industry joint undertaking should develop close synergies with other union programmes in areas such as education, environment, competitiveness and smes, and with funds in the field of cohesion policy and rural development policy, which can in particular contribute to strengthening national and regional research and innovation capacities in the context of smart specialisation strategies.
the objective is to ensure a high-performance air traffic control infrastructure by 2030 that will enable the safe, environmentally friendly and energy-efficient development of air transport.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment-related aspects of aviation.
and work on regulating aircraft speeds, for energy efficiency, to reduce the impact of aviation on climate change.
the objective of the union's 2030 framework is to provide a highly efficient air traffic control infrastructure that will enable the safe, environmentally sound and energy efficient development of air transport.
the aim is also to integrate aircraft speed control, for energy efficiency, thereby reducing the impact of aviation on climate change.
research drives innovation in all areas of life and the right investment would provide further impetus to the europe 2020 objectives, contributing to both the development and sustainability of the eu economy.
the first is to gain control of key elements of the value chain that are essential to ensure the sustainability of value creation from electronic products in europe and the competitiveness of many other european industrial sectors.
the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the implementation of the european union's energy union strategy for the period 2014-2020 and the implementation of the energy union strategy for the period 2014-2020. the aim is to accelerate the market uptake of these technologies because of their potential to create a carbon-free energy system.
this is particularly important given the greater role that the joint undertaking could play in the future of the european union, as hydrogen in its various applications can be a highly important factor in providing clean and green energy and in enhancing the competitiveness of the european union economy.
the experience of the predecessor of this joint undertaking shows that it can also have a positive impact on important economic factors such as reducing unemployment and developing innovation at regional and local level, not only in energy but also in transport, science, heavy industry and many other sectors.
i supported this proposal which will enable support for the eu's policies on sustainable energy and transport, climate change, environment and industrial competitiveness as embodied in the europe 2020 growth strategy and help achieve the eu's main objective of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the tripartite social summit for growth and jobs is tasked with ensuring continuous coordination between the council, the commission and the social partners, as well as the coordination of their strategies for high-quality and sustainable employment.
tourism is one of the most important sectors of the croatian economy and its growth depends on our willingness to protect the environment.
as the common agricultural policy is the second largest beneficiary of the eu budget, quality regulation is essential for its sustainability.
union rules also ensure a high level of human and animal health, animal welfare throughout the food chain and in all areas of activity where the main objective is to combat the possible spread of animal diseases, which in some cases are transmissible to humans or organisms harmful to plants or plant products, and ensure the protection of the environment from the risks that may arise from genetically modified organisms and plant protection products.
it aims to establish a robust, transparent and sustainable regulatory framework that is better 'fit for purpose'.
mr president, as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and food i am interested in these issues and can therefore say that the globalisation of trade and climate change are affecting european agriculture, forests and natural heritage by increasing the risk of harmful organisms entering european territory.
plant health is a key factor for sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry, and is also of paramount importance for biodiversity, natural ecosystems and ecosystem services.
- plant health is of paramount importance for biodiversity in the union, and consequently affects plant production, public and private green spaces and natural ecosystems.
unfortunately, with globalisation and the increase in climate change, the risks of introducing 'harmful organisms' that threaten european species into the union are also increasing.
- plant health is very important for plant production, public and private green spaces, natural ecosystems, ecosystem services and biodiversity in the union.
it is threatened by organisms harmful to plants and plant products and is at increased risk of introduction into the european territory due to the globalisation of trade and climate change.
the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the conditions for the participation of the european parliament and of the council in the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
this proposal aims to improve the functioning of the internal market in marine equipment, thereby increasing the safety of ships and their crews and preventing marine accidents and pollution of the marine environment.
accordingly, i support the commission's proposal which aims to improve the application and implementation of the mechanisms of directive 96/98/ec on marine equipment, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for marine equipment and ensuring a high level of safety of ships and crew at sea and the prevention of marine pollution.
this has led to unequal conditions on the market and the placing on the market of unsafe products, and the adoption of this directive will result in a simpler environment for products and thus contribute to improving the functioning of the single market.
- due to the extension of the scope of action to include marine pollution from ships and oil and gas installations, additional funding should be provided to the european maritime safety agency (emsa).
the agency's work in the field of pollution prevention and preparedness for pollution response has not only financial benefits but also added non-monetary value.
the agency should play an active role in maintaining and further developing the satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and responsible vessels or oil and gas installations.
this system should improve the availability of data and the efficiency of the pollution response, and should also speed up the initial response and the provision of appropriate support facilities.
the agency's work in the field of pollution prevention and preparedness for pollution response has not only financial benefits but also added value.
the devastating environmental impact and the huge economic costs of potential pollution-causing accidents, the negative socioeconomic impacts on other sectors such as tourism or fisheries are just some of the reasons for funding the agency in sufficient amounts and for its importance.
in recent years, croatia has had problems with the pollution of the adriatic coast, especially in the area of pelješac, by trash coming from albania.
oil pollution is the worst form of marine pollution, with an estimated 100,000 tons of oil spilled into the adriatic sea each year.
although the adriatic is one of the cleanest seas in the world, if we do not take preventive measures to prevent oil spills and other pollution, that could change.
- the work of the maritime safety agency in the field of pollution action is of the utmost importance to prevent pollution from accidental or intentional spills of harmful chemicals, which is of inestimable tangible as well as intangible value for environmental protection and environmental sustainability.
in this respect, and especially in view of the agency's extended responsibilities in relation to timely response to pollution, such as oil platforms, the work of the agency requires sufficient funding and i consider that the guarantee of eur 160 million until 2020 is sufficient, with an adjustment of up to 8%.
- i voted in favour of the proposal to fund the european maritime safety and pollution prevention agency and i believe that funding the agency is of crucial importance.
the agency's activities have not only financial benefits but also added value in terms of the risk of detrimental environmental impacts, huge economic costs and socio-economic impacts on, for example, tourism and fisheries, which cause pollution.
i agree with the rapporteur that the agency should play an active role in maintaining and developing the satellite imagery surveillance service, which would contribute to the early detection of pollution and improve the efficiency of the pollution response.
every second, about 100 m3 of waste water is poured into the adriatic sea, and if you take into account the 40,000 ships that pass through that waterway every year, with approximately 30 million tonnes of cargo in our ports, not to mention the waste oil from ships and industries on the coast.
i believe that with the proper allocation of the current budget without further increases, the agency could play an active role in maintaining and further developing the satellite imagery service for monitoring, early detection of pollution and responsible vessels or oil and gas installations.
mr vice-president, it is important that i support the report by mrs mcintyre on how the european union can contribute to creating a favourable environment for business and business activities of newly created enterprises with a view to job creation.
in croatia, where i come from, there is currently a dull and inert bureaucracy, as well as high start-up costs, and all of this is forcing entrepreneurs to flee to a more favorable business environment like in some countries where you can register a company within 24 hours with minimal start-up costs.
a well-prepared business plan is the first step towards more successful financing and sustainability.
for other cites species, trade is regulated by a permit system to ensure that it is legal, sustainable and can be monitored.
- i supported this report in view of the close cooperation between the european union and seychelles, in particular under the cotonou agreement, and the common interest in promoting the introduction of responsible fishing to ensure the long-term conservation and sustainable exploitation of living marine resources.
a partnership framework will be established to develop sustainable fisheries policies and the sound use of fisheries resources in the fishing zones of the union of the comoros.
the new protocol covers a period of three years from 1 january 2014, the date of the start of the provisional application laid down in article 13. the main objective of the protocol to the agreement is to offer fishing opportunities to european union vessels in the union of the comoros's fishing zone within the limits of the available surplus and to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros in order to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros's fishing zones in the interest of both parties.
taking into account the statistics that south korea is the 10th largest trading partner of the union and the eu is the 4th largest export destination of korea, i hope that these figures will continue to grow and that we will cooperate even more with korea in other areas of mutual interest such as science and technology, energy, environment and tourism.
this agreement, signed in 2010, covers a wide range of international issues such as human rights, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, energy security, climate change, etc.
taking into account the statistics that south korea is the 10th largest trading partner of the union and the eu the 4th largest export destination of korea, i hope that these figures will continue to grow and that we will cooperate even more with korea in other areas of mutual interest such as science and technology, energy, environment and tourism.
this will allow for the promotion of further cultural, educational, environmental, technological and scientific links, with increased sectoral cooperation and the strengthening of political relations within the eastern partnership.
these two regions, known as the outermost regions, face a number of difficulties caused by geographical features that include in particular their remoteness, the fact that they are islands, their small size, their unfavourable topography and climate.
- council decision 2002/546/ec authorised spain to apply, until 30 june 2014, an exemption or reduction in the aiem (arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias) to local products produced in the canary islands, in order to strengthen competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production due to geographical isolation, raw material, energy dependence, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity.
this region, like the other outermost regions, faces a number of difficulties caused by geographical features, in particular the remoteness, the fact that it is an island, its small size, the unfavourable topography and climate.
- council decision 2004/162/ec authorised france to apply exemptions or reductions from the dock dues to products from the french outermost regions, in order to enhance competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production due to geographical distance, raw material, energy dependence, the small size of local markets and the low level of export activity.
the french overseas departments, like all the other outermost regions, face a number of difficulties caused by geographical features, in particular their remoteness, their small size, their insularity, their unfavourable topography and climate.
the implementation of appropriate policies and procedures is necessary to create a secure and structured system that can be regularly checked, as the core function of the system is to provide a secure and reliable environment for the digital preparation, signing and delivery of parliament's documents.
nowadays, with so much attention being paid to environmental protection and ecology, one of the main negative elements present in every part of the human environment, including transport, is noise.
studies show that the most common cause of their decline is human activity, which is a great loss, not only because whales and dolphins are endangered but because the entire marine ecosystem is threatened because they, as animals at the top of the food chain, have an important controlling role in keeping the ecosystem stable.
in order to ensure the consistent application of the principles of sustainable development and sustainable management of the marine environment, the commission should develop a methodology for the assessment of the impact of incidental catches of whales and dolphins on the marine environment.
the numbers of whales, dolphins, and porpoises have been drastically reduced, with thousands dying each year from habitat destruction, ship collisions, and underwater noise and pollution.
mr. chairman, given that this is a topic within the purview of my environmental protection committee, the consumption of plastic bags is causing large amounts of waste to be dumped into the environment and an inefficient use of resources and is expected to increase even more if nothing is done.
the dumping of plastic bags into the environment is causing pollution and exacerbating the widespread problem of waste, especially in water bodies, threatening aquatic ecosystems around the world, and i'm referring specifically to the world's seas, and here i want to refer to the adriatic sea and the problem of the threat of the adriatic sea related to plastic waste.
states should work to inform citizens, raise awareness of the negative consequences of the use of plastic bags, and all to contribute to the creation of a cleaner and healthier environment.
mr. president, the report by ms. auken on the amendment of the packaging and packaging waste directive to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags.
in addition, 8 billion plastic bags in the european union are leaking into the environment, including the sea, posing not only a problem for the environment but also for the development of tourism potential in coastal areas.
i spoke about this and about the particular problem where the croatian beaches around dubrovnik and mljet are also getting plastic waste from albania in the debate in january.
tourism is one of the most important sectors of the croatian economy and its growth depends on whether we want to protect the environment.
- the aim of ms auken's report is to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastic bags, given that, according to 2010 data, each eu citizen uses around 200 plastic bags a year and more than 8 billion of them become waste.
these concerns are a serious problem, causing environmental pollution and damaging the quality of water bodies.
i welcome the effort to reduce plastic bags compared to the average use of plastic bags in the european union in 2010. i also agree that charging for plastic bags would reduce and prevent their use and consumption in a fast and sustainable way.
- given the negative impact of plastic bags on the environment, but also on the economy, i welcome any initiative that aims to regulate and prescribe their rational use.
in fact, i am particularly interested in this problem, given that every year a large amount of plastic waste coming from third countries ends up on the croatian coast, creating significant environmental and economic damage, given that tourism is one of the strongest branches of the croatian economy.
however, i consider that the rapporteur's proposal does not leave sufficient freedom to member states to determine measures to effectively combat the accumulation of plastic bags, in particular by imposing rigorous targets for a sustainable reduction in the consumption of lightweight plastic bags and by imposing an obligation on food business operators to charge an effective and proportionate price for lightweight plastic bags.
on the other hand, i welcome the introduction of the obligation to organise a public information campaign and raise awareness of the negative impact of the excessive use of conventional plastic bags on the environment, but for the reasons mentioned above i voted against the proposal.
the union, like the member states, is already a contracting party to the energy charter treaty which provides for investment protection.
the preservation of european industrial production must be ensured on several levels, but to be successful, we must first create a favourable environment within which our industry can grow and develop freely.
are threatened by low prices of energy and raw materials coming from outside which our producers cannot compete with, which leads to market distortion.
- bearing in mind the commission's 2011 white paper 'a roadmap for a single european transport area' which calls for a reduction of emissions from maritime transport by 40% and 50% respectively, it is very important to have objective and accurate systems for measuring these emissions, so that we can react in a timely manner by introducing new measures or adapting existing ones if emissions are not being reduced fast enough.
i therefore welcome the main objective of this regulation, which is to set up a european system for the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions.
- studies have shown that emissions from international shipping have been increasing rapidly in recent years.
although energy efficiency for ships was introduced in 2011, it has not proved to be sufficient.
the establishment of a european monitoring, reporting and verification system for co2 emissions from ships should be the main objective of this regulation.
the commission should take measures and other activities leading to emissions of greenhouse gases and air pollutants not covered by this regulation.
the maritime market already has a very high incentive to increase energy efficiency and real-life transport work in view of high fuel prices.
- this regulation lays down rules for the accurate monitoring, verification and reporting of carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from ships calling at or departing from ports under the jurisdiction of a member state in order to promote the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport in a cost-effective manner.
the commission proposal introduces four basic methods for measuring co2 emissions, covering 98% of all emissions from ships.
accordingly, i did not support this report as the amendments mentioned would represent a significant burden for smaller ship owners to implement and the measures are not proportionate in terms of reducing emissions.
- the european union's environment is extremely diverse, with over ten thousand alien species in the union (of which about 40% are imported from other member states), and it is estimated that about one in ten are invasive.
- alien species have been pushed out of their natural range across ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action.
some of these species can't adapt to their new environment and they need help.
invasive species (hereinafter 'irps') are those that are identified as being lacking in ecosystem biodiversity or as having a negative impact on the environment, human health and socio-economic development.
as early as 2009, the european parliament and the environment council supported eu strategies.
the mrs was one of the 10 priority objectives of the biodiversity action plan.
- the kyoto protocol, signed in 1997, is the only legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gases in highly industrialized countries.
in december 2012, at the doha climate change conference, the 192 signatories to the kyoto protocol, along with the united nations framework convention on climate change, adopted an amendment to the kyoto protocol.
the amendment establishes a second commitment period of the kyoto protocol from 1 january 2013 until the end of 2020 and legally binds the parties to reduce greenhouse gases.
i support the report on the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the unfccc, as i believe that it is of the utmost importance to reduce the amount of greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013-2020 to below the average of the period 2008-2010.
written.
- i accept the proposal to amend the regulation concerning the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change will set a second commitment period until 2020 to ensure transparency of the parties' performance with their commitments.
the european union, its member states and iceland must reduce their average greenhouse gas emissions by up to 80% of their annual emissions.
the adoption of the doha amendment is among the most important goals that the european union must achieve, alongside the further implementation of the kyoto protocol, in order to contribute to global efforts to tackle climate change.
- as a result of the significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union and due to climate-related policies and economic circumstances, there will be a significant surplus of allocated allowances, verified emission reductions and emission reduction units in the accounts of the union and the member states in the second kyoto protocol target period.
the relevant international rules on emissions calculation and progress towards meeting commitments should be adopted at the next climate conference in lima in december 2014. accordingly, i supported this report and believe that the commission should work with member states and third countries to help ensure the formal adoption of the kyoto protocol accounting rules at the lima climate conference.
the fund will obviously play an increasing role, primarily because of the increasing frequency of climate extremes in europe, and the next parliament should therefore focus more on commitments and criteria for taking measures to prevent the most severe consequences, at least those of foreseeable disasters.
i welcome this draft law as it focuses on combating unemployment, which is currently a burning issue in croatia as well as in many other member states, promoting sustainable employment, combating social insensitivity, involving the social partners, and taking into account the responsibilities in individual member states.
in short, i see this as helping to fight youth unemployment, promote sustainable employment and combat social insensitivity.
as a member of the committee on budgets, i am aware of the importance of this fund to the member states in the wake of a series of natural disasters caused mainly by climate change, and the importance of making this assistance by the european union as quick, effective and as simple as possible for the member states, and in particular of making it possible to grant advances at the request of the affected country.
- as a consequence of climate change, the number and frequency of natural disasters in the union have increased in recent years.
the european union has been working to improve the quality of life for people in the region, and to help them to become better informed about the impact of climate change on their lives.
the fund was set up following the various floods that occurred in central europe during the summer of 2002. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the following measures: in view of the increasing number of natural disasters as a consequence of climate change, which have not bypassed croatia, i consider that this is a fund of great importance and it needs to be adapted in an adequate and effective way to this situation.
the union's participation in the capital increase of the fund is of great importance in order to achieve the union's objectives of promoting an environment favourable to initiatives and to the development of enterprises throughout the eu, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises.
these measures are perhaps the most beneficial to fishermen and i believe they can really help to preserve the sustainability of fisheries.
- although slavonia, where i come from, is landlocked, i am aware of the importance and impact of the common fisheries policy on economic, social and environmental developments in croatia and the european union.
support for small-scale fishing is of particular importance in order to respond to the problems specific to that fishery and to support the local management of those fishing zones and ultimately to achieve their sustainability.
i supported this report because i believe that cooperation is a key factor in tackling the problems of fisheries at all levels and in promoting sustainable development that would ensure the protection of the wealth of the sea and the economic and environmental sustainability of the sector.
with a budget of eur 6,5 billion for the period 2014-2020, the fund will help eu fishermen to make their activities sustainable, while also financing projects that create new jobs to improve the quality of life along the coast.
i consider that the emff should contribute to the objectives of promoting environmentally and economically sustainable and socially responsible fisheries, aquaculture and similar processing or marketing activities; promoting the balanced and inclusive territorial development of fisheries and aquatic areas; encouraging the implementation of the cfp, including its regionalisation and implementation and encouraging job creation in order to prevent the disappearance of fishing communities and to create better skills and working conditions in the fisheries sector.
i am pleased to note that the fund is not aimed at helping and encouraging the big fishing powers to increase their fleets and build even bigger vessels, but at equity and greater sustainability.
mr president, the european long-term investment funds put at the forefront what national governments often forget, long-term projects with the goals of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
while citizens wait for the political elites to become aware and accountable in their political work, these funds will help to facilitate the achievement of essential infrastructure and economic objectives that guarantee the sustainability of national economies in the future.
- in order to put the european economy back on a path of sustainable and inclusive growth under the europe 2020 strategy, it is essential to promote long-term financing as a key tool to achieve the goal.
- maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management will contribute to promoting the sustainable development of maritime and coastal economies and the sustainable use of marine and coastal resources, and to opportunities for public and private investment, which will have an impact on all sectoral policies related to maritime and coastal space.
the maritime space as a key element for renewable energy sources, oil and gas exploration, maritime and fisheries activities, ecosystem and biodiversity conservation, aquaculture facilities, tourism and fisheries resources needs coordination, linking or integration of spatial plans, integrated strategies and coastal area management.
this would ensure the sustainable use of maritime space and the management of coastal areas.
but social, economic, and environmental factors and goals must also be considered.
i am voting in favour of this directive because it will meet european objectives as well as national objectives, which is of great importance not only for croatia but for all countries that want to preserve sustainable tourism and protect cultural heritage.
i also object to the concept of "essential ecosystem components" because i believe that they would place an excessive and unnecessary burden on local government.
- each of europe's more than half a billion citizens generates more than half a tonne of waste per year in their homes every day, a huge number, not to mention the manufacturing and construction sectors.
the european union as a whole produces around three billion tonnes of waste a year, which, as expected, creates a huge environmental problem, from pollution and greenhouse gas emissions that affect climate change, to financial and material costs.
the commission should be able to verify that the waste is transported in a way that is compatible with the waste hierarchy.
in order to contribute to the solution of this problem, the commission proposes that all member states make a publicly available inspection plan and set the strategy and objectives of inspections of waste shipments and the necessary resources.
for environmental as well as economic reasons, i fully support the commission's objective and the rapporteur's proposals to further reinforce this objective, such as the proposal to make the plans and results of inspections by member states permanently available to the public, to increase the powers of the competent authorities and to increase cooperation between member states.
i hope that this regulation will help us to tackle this environmental and economic problem in the context of increasing the efficiency and sustainability of the european union.
over 70 million people gravitate to this space, and the initiative already includes priorities like investment and energy independence.
despite the great solidarity of the rest of croatia and the enormous energy that volunteers and humanitarians have invested in helping the victims, the question remains open as to when the housing and economic capacities will be ready to receive their tenants and users again.
some add that russia's goal is not to annex parts of ukraine but to permanently destabilize the whole country, blockade the european path and strengthen the union's energy and thus political dependence on moscow.
ukraine and the crisis in ukraine today is a real test of the credibility of the european union's foreign policy and its holistic approach, from our values, violations of international law, respect for the territorial integrity and integrity of ukraine to economic relations, enlargement policy, energy policy, relations with strategic partners.
you are questioning me on the basis of texts that you have, but that obviously you have not read, because if you had read those texts you will see that we are not going to change the phytosanitary norms, the norms for the protection of the environment, for labour rights and whatever.
let me just tackle one more issue that has been mentioned – it is very interesting for the climate in which all this is happening – and that is geographical indications (gis).
the expected values can only be achieved through high-quality agreements that preserve european social and cultural values, environmental standards, geographical origin, the right to oppose genetically modified organisms, cloned and hormone-treated food and the protection of private data.
if we want a healthy union of sustainable economies, we need to address this problem at member state level.
all these are tools to help solve this big problem, but it's a real solution in creating a culture that is conducive to the development of smes, creating a conducive economic environment that can create growth and development, in creating a flexible labour market, and in removing bureaucratic obstacles.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states.
the eu's foreign policy influence in the case of ukraine should be reflected in respect for european values, but also in the enlargement of the neighbourhood policy, energy policy, but also in relation to the violation of territorial integrity and violation of international law.
strengthening cooperation is a priority, and the basis for all this was the barcelona process in 1995. i would like to stress cooperation in all areas, but particularly in the area of the environment, because we have not mentioned it much, and i believe that we all share a common concern to take care of the mediterranean sea and to preserve the environment.
as this agreement places particular emphasis on cooperation in the field of environmental protection, energy security and a commitment to sustainable development, which are at the heart of european values, i support its ratification as i firmly believe that cooperation in these areas is crucial for the well-being of all our citizens.
in the context of building the european research area, and in line with the objectives of the agreement covering scientific and technological cooperation, we need to pay particular attention to the mobility of researchers and scientists and to facilitating their entry, as scientific cooperation is the foundation of economic development and the backbone of smart, inclusive and sustainable growth.
madam president, climate change and its slowdown is a key political issue today.
the negotiations so far have shown that, despite the awareness of the need to reach an agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, there is still no consensus on how commitments should be shared among countries.
europe is working hard to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while encouraging other countries and regions to do the same.
my view is that we need to do a better job of preventing climate change, but not by shifting production to other countries or trading emissions as our main mechanism, because that doesn't help the economy or the environment.
i am committed to stronger support for low-carbon and green economies that create jobs, protect employee social security and protect the environment.
because climate change is happening today, it's happening to us, and its negative impact includes the damage caused by more frequent and more powerful natural disasters.
so i call for solidarity with the croatian people, but also for a fair balance of burden sharing between the industrialized countries and those that contribute very little to greenhouse gas emissions, and suffer from them, because they face a lack of capacity and resources to be able to adapt to them.
we see for ourselves that the climate is changing faster than expected and the effect is worse than predicted.
the un climate change conference in new york should make all participants aware that fighting climate change has far more positive effects than it can at first glance.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy, increasing energy efficiency is the only right way if we want to leave this world to our children.
europe is one of the important global players on the world stage that must show by example that fighting climate change can create jobs.
i am also talking about mr juncker and his programme, in which one of the very important points is a solid energy union with an advanced climate policy.
madam president, i support the reports submitted by the council representative and the commissioner and welcome the continuation of cooperation within the framework of the un climate conference convened in new york by un secretary-general ban ki moon to ensure that a final agreement on greenhouse gas emission reductions is reached in paris next year.
the issue of climate change is a global issue where the european union is not only a leader in achieving emission reduction standards, but also in developing innovative green technologies that should enable the transition to a low-carbon economy.
croatia is a good example that has already exceeded the kyoto protocol targets and, by adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050, has ensured the continuation of the same policy.
at the last summit, we started to work on a framework for the european union's climate and energy policy until 2030 and i believe it is important that we complete it soon.
i expect the messages of the new york climate conference to be a good basis for reaching a final international agreement.
madam president, what i was talking about, i was talking about croatia adopting a low-carbon development strategy by 2050 and ensuring the continuation of the policy, which is the policy of fulfilling the kyoto protocol.
that also says something about how the world perceives europe’s role in international climate change.
he will also focus on what will come from the eu budget when it comes to international climate finance.
mr pargneaux asked about the green climate fund and how it is that we – that is, the commission – cannot pay money through a fund where we are not on the board.
that is why, but it definitely does not mean that we will not give a lot of money to international climate finance through the eu community budget, and this will also be made very clear in president barroso’s speech.
now, just one comment: i know that mr helmer has gone and i know that, even if he had been here, i would not be able to persuade him about climate change.
but there is one thing i simply do not understand: how is it that efforts to reduce europe’s energy dependency be blamed for rising energy prices in europe?
it could be that one of the reasons why we have higher energy prices in europe than in other regions is that we have to import around 60% of our energy, meaning that today we are spending around eur 400 billion each year.
i sincerely do hope that this new parliament will help my successor to keep climate change high on the commissions agenda, as well as on the eu’s agenda as a whole – including on our growth and economic agenda, which is where it really belongs.
i really do believe that the world needs a strong european climate policy, and that it has to be very visible in the run-up to paris next year.
i would like to stress one point that has been raised and which we particularly appreciate: the effort and the call for the effort to raise awareness among all europe's partners worldwide, in the differences we know economic, growth and even pollution levels the effort to involve all partners.
climate change is affecting the daily lives of citizens around the world more than ever.
i therefore believe that environmental protection issues must become an integral part of the union's security strategies.
achieving a low-carbon society by 2050 is one of the strategic directions, and the road ahead requires even greater commitment and commitment to smart and sustainable growth and competitive markets based on innovation and knowledge.
according to the latest eurobarometer survey, the level of environmental awareness among european citizens has increased significantly despite the economic crisis, thus providing a fertile ground for the implementation of sustainable development policies, which are also strongly reflected in the europe 2020 strategy within the european union.
while recognising the interdependence of national economies, the fight against climate change creates the necessary synergies of sustainable economic development and meeting the environmental targets that the eu has always been a leader in.
the un summit in new york is a call to make a clear 'yes' to stronger implementation of measures to combat climate change and protect the environment.
this is just a preview of what we're going to be facing in paris in 2015, when we have to come up with a binding global climate agreement that is acceptable to all parties.
the eu-canada trade and investment relationship will not come at the expense of environmental or social and labour standards.
but on the other hand, i'm aware that we have to think responsibly about a sustainable health care system.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
measures to assist workers, such as guidance, counselling and job searching, and training and retraining, are expected to be adapted not only to their needs but also to the actual business environment.
the commission has also requested the european parliament and the council to provide the european parliament with the information it needs to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and to provide it with the information it needs to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment.
there was a discussion here in parliament on this topic with tonio borg in early september in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the green party conference in macedonia concluded that the natural disaster that hit areas of south-eastern europe conceals responsibility for climate change.
for this reason, we must combat the harmful effects on the environment and make a serious commitment to promoting and financing preventive measures to reduce natural disasters.
the green parties of the balkans will advocate for a sustainable and secure future with an emphasis on a healthy environment and human life in the same.
the concept of an ecosystem approach is not sufficiently recognised by the member states and the commission, even though the approach itself shows better results than traditional technical solutions.
i call on all stakeholders to use this sustainable way of preventing and dealing with the consequences of floods and other natural disasters.
so we must act on the ground with more energy and determination than ever before.
i would like to add three incentives to this: firstly, the creation of a really effective mechanism for self-employment of young people; secondly, the mobility of young people within the european union; and thirdly, the conclusion that the digital market and energy as a sector for the employment of young people is something that is topical, as i heard from mr della vedova, but i add also agriculture and tourism.
it is important to include sustainable development objectives in this framework, which aims to measure the success of european economic policies, and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has therefore expressed its opinion on the report in this respect.
it is essential to include in the recommendations to member states evaluations and recommendations aiming at energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources and reducing co2 emissions by 2020. the commission should recognise at all departmental levels the importance of these objectives as key to achieving local jobs and sustainable green growth.
energy security and sustainable development are the only guarantees for the long-term and successful economic recovery of the member states of the european union.
in this light, it is essential to involve environment ministers, environmental policies and awareness raising on the importance of moving to a circular economy as a new paradigm for waste and energy management in this overwhelming economic debate.
we need to become more efficient in managing the resources we have and turn to energy connectivity and energy independence as the keys to successful economic growth.
i support the plan to provide interest-free loans to start-ups that could help participants to establish sustainable businesses.
mr president, i expect that of the announced 300 billion euro investment in the reindustrialisation of europe, a significant part will be for the energy sector, and of course i support the creation of a common energy union.
i also support the efforts of the baltic countries, finland and the efforts that malta is making here, and i want to make it clear that we should also take care of our environment.
so i call for a good reflection on whether to build a thermal power plant on the coal in croatia, when already there near immediately to that location we can build an lng terminal that would be much better of course for the environment.
what i want to emphasize here is the large reserves of renewable energy in the balkans in countries that are not yet members of the european union, and i believe that we need to find common ground here, because in this way we can get much cheaper energy and renewable energy, and maybe also solve the problem of flooding and other problems that these countries have.
mr president, the russian embargo, climate change, record youth unemployment, unpaid bills, over-indebtedness, failure to meet growth and employment targets are challenges that the 2015 budget must address at least in part in order to meet the targets set for 2020. the common agricultural policy is certainly an important part of the budget and i would be glad if it were bigger and if projects were implemented to ensure that people in the countryside could stay and live in dignity.
my view is that special attention should be paid to small family farms which are food producers, conservationists of space and biodiversity, and drivers of development and life in rural areas.
it is important to build better infrastructure, strengthen industry, create a strong energy union and pursue an active climate policy.
and the five most pressing european problems that the new commission needs to tackle immediately are: unemployment, social inequalities, member states' public debt, climate change and population ageing.
the commission will also significantly weaken the sectoral climate change and environmental protection policies by merging the climate change and energy and environment and fisheries directorates-general.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the medium term.
the new commission's imagined energy policies are risky enough to discourage private capital and expose europe to energy insecurity.
- i voted in favour because i support increasing funding for programmes that represent the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, namely the programme for growth, employment and competitiveness, information and communication technologies, energy security and environment and climate action.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy for the protection of the environment against climate change (2014-2020) and the european union strategy for the protection of the environment against climate change (2014-2020).
at the same time, i am pleased that the eu has recognised the importance of energy independence and synergies of all member states, and the importance of promoting renewable energy sources and energy efficiency to achieve energy security, especially in the member states that are most dependent on russian gas.
the crisis in ukraine has imposed the need for stronger cooperation on all energy sources, not just gas.
in order to reduce dependence on russian gas, it is important to invest in renewable energy sources to achieve energy security and to align the targets for the consumption of energy resources under horizon 2020. i support the decision to increase funding for smes, because it is their innovation that can contribute to the desired economic recovery of the eu in terms of reducing unemployment and stimulating economic growth.
in a time of economic globalisation and the opening up of world markets, it is of the utmost importance to ensure the sustainability and competitiveness of the economies and trade of smaller eu countries such as croatia.
this is why it is important to insist on the sustainable and smart functioning of the economic and monetary union and to strengthen the coordination of macroeconomic and budgetary policies, alongside the euro area policy, led by the european commission.
it is therefore important to encourage the commission to provide concrete recommendations to member states and the eu as a whole, including those in economic adjustment programmes, aiming also at structural reforms that will result in real, sustainable and socially balanced growth, employment and increased competitiveness.
madam vice-president, with this speech i want to highlight a very important problem in croatia, a problem that has serious and severe consequences for the environment and the health of citizens.
the citizens of slavonski brod are daily victims of cross-border air pollution from the mentioned refinery owned by the russian company zarubezhneft.
the measuring station in slavonski brod records high concentrations of several pollutants that put the health of citizens in the eastern part of croatia at risk and pollute its environment.
the key is to reduce emissions of long-lived pollutants as soon as possible.
the equality of all eu citizens and the provision of a healthy and sustainable environment for a healthy and quality life for all citizens should be the supreme value of the european institutions, but also the motivation for stronger and more purposeful action in addressing this serious european problem.
as one of its objectives, the eu is trying to move goods to cleaner, safer and low-energy modes of transport.
together with short-haul rail and maritime transport, inland waterway transport can make a significant contribution to the sustainability of the transport system, which will have a positive impact on the european economy.
it's not just physical walls, but also various energy, cultural and financial walls of blackmail.
in accordance with the values of the european union and the un convention on the law of the sea, i call for a peaceful settlement of the dispute in the context of the new phase of the unification negotiations and the creation of a positive climate for both sides.
the investigation of potential oil and gas deposits in cypriot waters is of common interest to the greek and turkish sides, inter alia, because the consequences of the adverse environmental effects may be felt throughout the island.
i support the need to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies access to the moldovan market.
- i voted in favour of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community, on the one hand, and the republic of moldova, on the other, because it opens up a concrete european perspective for this part of eastern europe.
the agreement also contributes to positive effects for the eu, which will be provided with a simplified and better investment climate for investments in the country concerned.
- i have supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
- given that this agreement establishes the association of the republic of moldova with the european atomic energy community and its member states, and that this represents a new stage in the development of such relations aimed at creating the strongest possible links, economic integration and political association, i consider it necessary to support this proposal for association between moldova and the european atomic energy community.
the agreement itself provides not only for sectoral cooperation based on the implementation of reforms, the achievement of economic recovery and growth and cooperation in areas such as public administration reform, environmental protection, transport, agriculture, education, consumer protection, etc., but also for an institutional framework covering various forums for cooperation and dialogue and includes provisions to address any open trade issues, compliance issues and dispute settlement.
i support the need to create a transparent business and investment environment and appropriate regulatory reforms to allow companies and investors that meet eu standards to trade freely within the eu market, as well as to allow eu companies access to the moldovan market.
with the convention on the rights of the child exactly 25 years ago, we committed ourselves to do everything in our power to protect and provide a proper environment for their unhampered development and a safe childhood.
it is also necessary to note that the exploitation of oil and the sharing of revenues alone are not a guarantee of peace, sustainable development and the well-being of the population.
the european union is a true global leader, not only because it is the largest donor, but also because, as a community founded on democratic values, it is absolutely convinced of the universality of the right of every human being to peace and freedom, to a life of dignity, to the right of every society to development, to sustainable economic, social and environmental development.
the european parliament resolution therefore sends a clear message to the council that in december we want the member states to put aside what divides them and to focus on what unites us europeans in the fight against world poverty, in the fight against inequality, in the promotion of sustainable development.
we want the council to adopt a common position in december that will give the european union a strong and effective voice in the negotiations for a new global development framework that will replace the old millennium development goals of 2000 and bring in a new set of targets for the period after 2015. this new global development framework must be transformative, it must address not just the symptoms but the root causes of poverty and the modern scourges that stifle human dignity and prevent sustainable development.
it's important that all the aspects are taken into account here, both the social and the economic and the environmental aspects, and it's very important that this is looked at in a joint way.
otherwise, in times of climate change, in times when resources are slowly being depleted, we really need a new approach.
it is therefore important to redirect the financial support we provide towards sustainable development and to encourage the creation of those jobs that come from a sustainable economy, that protects workers and their social security and that protects the environment.
gender equality, migration, the environment and human rights will most certainly be some of the key priorities in our work.
this also goes for education, sustainable growth, health issues, and domestic, international and private-public interlinks into development policies.
it works alongside and shapes a range of policies from foreign affairs, security and trade to the environment, agriculture and fisheries.
of course, as i said earlier in the introduction, effective development policy is actually the antidote to any radicalism, both in the world and in our own environment, but of course it is also true within the european union.
what is important is that the european union speaks with one voice, that we have one strong position in the negotiations to be held in 2015, and that in this way the european union remains a strong force for good and for sustainable development.
i believe that we need to turn to investment and innovation in the european railway sector, to promote environmentally friendly and sustainable modes of transport, and i also support capital investment in the railway sector - particularly in certain eu countries that show significant backlogs in rail infrastructure.
the protocol also encourages the shift towards a more environmentally conscious and sustainable mode of transport such as rail.
as a member of the environment committee, i find this proposal of particular interest and welcome the point in the proposal that aims to encourage sustainable and green modes of transport such as rail.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu and global development framework for the period after 2015 because it clearly sets out the necessary guidelines for achieving a balanced and sustainable system of overall stability.
also, large-scale inequalities are known; economic, social, political...therefore, the global development framework after 2015, is largely focused towards poverty eradication, sustainable development and environmental protection, provision of basic services, rights and health conditions, and promotes dynamic employment and quality education.
- i support this report because i believe that the fight against poverty and inequality, sustainable development and a human rights-based approach, including the principle of good governance, are essential components of a new long-term global framework that requires global engagement and collective action.
i agree that the 'global sustainable development framework post-2015' should be transformative in addressing the root causes of poverty and inequality and thus continue and fulfil the unfinished business of the current millennium development goals.
furthermore, key issues such as inequalities, human rights violations, climate change, limited access to education, demographic change and other problems we face today are key factors that need to be addressed and that need to be taken into account in the formulation of new goals.
as a member of the environment committee, i would specifically refer to environmental sustainability as one of the main challenges, and i agree that failure to achieve it would likely jeopardise all aspects of human development and the achievement of sustainable development.
- i strongly support efforts to take into account the different circumstances, capacities, policies and priorities of individual countries in the new development framework and i consider it extremely positive that poverty eradication and sustainable development are recognised as key themes of the new development framework.
- since the europe 2020 strategy came into force in 2010, no significant progress has been made in reducing eu member states' unemployment, poverty levels, and the overall long-term sustainable development agenda.
- the commission's proposal for a 'europe 2020' strategy to launch a strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth addresses a problem that we still face in the european union, namely unemployment and youth unemployment.
in a work environment where job insecurity and pressure on workers are greater than ever, this is unfortunately necessary.
in order to mobilise money over the next three years towards public and private investment, a favourable investment environment needs to be created and the absorption of funds needs to be increased.
the new plan will finance strategic projects related to education, research, innovation, investment in renewable energy sources, modernisation of the transport sector and more, as announced by the commission president.
given that the european union contributes only 10 to 11 percent of emissions, and the united states and china contribute 50 percent, that should not discourage us from being leaders in this fight against climate change.
mr. president, i was pleased to vote for this resolution on climate change, as it is the basis for the lima talks in early december 2014. we actually laid the groundwork a long time ago, that was in kyoto, but we haven't held up well and it's obvious that we need universal global action.
we only produce 10 to 11 percent of the greenhouse gases, as opposed to these big ones that produce 50 percent.
i particularly support the two-degree plan, not to worry about, but also the big binding targets for 2050, the 50 percent reduction in emissions.
madam president, i supported this resolution because climate change is a reality and we need an urgent agreement, and the lima conference is an opportunity to bring the two sides closer together, to bridge the gaps and agree on a good framework, a way forward and a path to achieve a common goal.
in recent years, europe has witnessed a change in climate, from extreme droughts to extreme floods, which has not been ignored by my homeland, croatia, or our neighbours.
the use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency are therefore elements of an overall european policy and opportunities for the development of green technologies that will create new jobs, protect the social security of employees and protect the environment.
as a european, i am proud to live in a society that takes the threat of climate change to civilization seriously and meets its obligations.
i voted in favour of the un climate change conference 2014 resolution because i believe that urgent action is needed at global level, given that climate change poses a serious threat to the whole world.
the fact is that scientific research has shown that co2 emissions will increase further, making the global warming situation worse.
the european commission needs to make a strong commitment to tackling the global climate crisis by mobilising additional resources and efforts, out of a sense of responsibility towards future generations.
- climate change in recent years has demonstrated its power and left its cuts in society, the environment and the planet.
climate change policy goals must be global, this is a problem that everyone must participate in for environmentally sustainable development to be a reality.
i support this resolution because it aims to ensure that the climate change conference has a constructive debate, addresses the serious consequences of climate change and highlights the lack of collective action by states.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation policy, including the implementation of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation strategy.
economic growth must be achieved without adding to the burden on the environment.
the priorities should enable global partners to reach ambitious climate agreements in paris in 2015 with the main objective of halting global warming.
the main objective is to keep the global increase in average temperature warming below 2°c, reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050, increase international 2020 targets and implement previous cop agreements, predominantly in the areas of climate finance and adaptation.
the key is to strike a balance between the environment and industry, i.e.
combating climate change and ensuring policies that are innovative and competitive at the same time.
the environmental objectives must be ambitious and realistic in order to avoid further relocation of european industry, which would weaken the eu's leadership in the fight against climate change at global level.
human activities are the main cause of climate change and the only way to effectively combat its negative effects.
we therefore need to defend responsibly the interests of all people, nature and future generations, and one of the key steps is to set more ambitious climate protection targets, reduce incentives for fossil fuels and enable the green climate fund to function.
we can no longer fight climate change with declarations alone, but we need a clear political stance.
a number of technological advances are making it easier for us to combat climate change.
however, instruments alone are not enough; a significant change in our habits and lifestyles is needed, as well as the integration of energy efficiency into our daily lives and the promotion of renewable energy sources.
i supported the un climate change conference resolution because we are witnessing weather disasters due to climate change on a daily basis.
the parties agree to cooperate in the implementation of the agreement on climate change and the agreement on the international energy agency.
the european union has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 19% compared with 1990 levels.
the commission will continue to support the implementation of the unfccc and the unfccc sustainable development goals.
the commitments made by the eu and its member states are to increase funding for climate action by capitalising the un green climate fund and jointly mobilising $100 billion a year by 2020. i would point out that croatia has also suffered great damage this year due to extreme weather conditions and a large number of croatian cities have been affected by floods.
- i consider this conference to be of great importance as it provides an opportunity to develop the technical elements for negotiations and build a political platform for the conference to be held in paris in december where a new global framework for climate change will be adopted (the so-called 2015 agreement).
i believe that the union is in an excellent position at this moment to influence this process, since the council last month decided to reduce the eu's greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% (compared to 1990 levels and 2030).
i supported this resolution because i am convinced that the conference is a great opportunity for the union to present to the global public a positive and ambitious environmental plan, both for the territory of the european union and for all the other participants in the conference.
it's also important for us to talk about climate change, about the problems that are associated with it, to talk about the green economy, which is the green climate fund, and what green industry means today and tomorrow to the world.
i believe that the most important thing is to provide my children with an equal environment to grow up in - protection from any form of violence, providing basic living conditions, education and peaceful growth.
the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states to enable them to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the union's energy market.
action is needed to improve the online business environment, strengthen consumer confidence, the infrastructure foundations and the legal framework for the protection of intellectual property on the internet.
the resolution calls for better policies, global but also local action, to create an enabling environment for better nutrition and health for children.
humanitarian and other forms of relief must be provided in a timely manner, and food and drinking water, social protection, public health, energy, and education must be provided.
i would stress the importance of an integrated approach and coordinated action across a number of sectors that coordinate policies in the areas of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water and sanitation, social protection and education, together with the responsible involvement of all stakeholders.
i find the commission communication improving nutrition for mothers and children in external aid: an eu strategic framework extremely useful as it promotes a multisectoral approach that aligns policies in the areas of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, water supply, sanitation, social protection and education; but at the same time i fully support the question raised by mrs mcavan about its effectiveness, i.e.
the cites convention aims to make international trade in wildlife species sustainable.
this wide scope, combined with the legally binding nature of its decisions and its robust compliance mechanism, makes the cites convention a critical tool to address the overexploitation of natural resources, which is one of the biggest threats to biodiversity today.
the cites convention stands at the crossroads of environment, trade and development.
the eu has pushed for these, and our accession to cites will allow us to increase our investment further to ensure that the international timber and fish trades are legal and sustainable.
to conclude, i would stress that the eu’s accession to cites will reinforce both the eu as a global player and cites as an essential multilateral instrument for sustainable development.
three aspects are important: development, international trade and environmental protection.
we have always acted in accordance with these provisions of the convention, but we have referred to the provisions of the treaty on european union and the chapter on the environment.
madam president, i expect the commission to make a clear proposal on the two key pillars of our work in the european union, namely the fight against climate change, the retention of the 6% ambition and, of course, what is on the other hand, a whole department, namely the question of consumer protection.
croatia is thus returning to its natural environment by joining the partnership.
real growth, sustainable growth, the economy, the large cities of the southern mediterranean, environmental problems, these are all areas where europe can do a lot and i expect and support the commission in these endeavours.
the european union's environmental policy, through cites, will also gain greater power to achieve its objectives, especially in the sector of trade in animals and plants.
i support this report and consider that the acceptance of cites by the european union is a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union continues to fully meet its environmental policy objectives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the reckless exploitation of natural resources in a linear economic system, as well as the illegal trade in products made from endangered plant and animal species, leads to an imbalance that is not sustainable.
the european union is a major player in the fight against illegal trade in endangered species of wild animals and plants, and the adoption of a convention at eu level is a decisive step towards protecting biodiversity not only in europe but also in the world.
the protection of the environment is one of the european parliament's priorities.
‒ i support the adoption of the cites convention by the european union as it confirms its commitment to environmental policy and to meeting its objectives.
we need to take into account diversity and development, as well as legal and sustainable international trade.
i consider that the security of energy supply, energy systems, the stability and predictability of energy policies and the management of energy resources are important prerequisites for the fundamental achievement of economic growth and development in each country and i supported the recommendation to conclude the agreement with morocco.
the parties shall cooperate in the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, including through the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the european economic area agreement implies the implementation of the free movement of persons, capital, services and goods, and cooperation in a number of other areas such as research, tourism and culture, and environmental protection.
the agreement also contains horizontal policies linked to the four fundamental freedoms from which croatia will benefit: social policy, consumer protection policy, environment, statistics and company law, and a number of policies related to research and technological development.
that agreement, which includes croatia in the european economic area, covers cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
the objective of the exemption or reduction of the 'octroi de mer' tax on a number of products produced in the french outermost regions (including saint martin) is to compensate for the shortcomings affecting the outermost regions concerned (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market and low level of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and social and economic development.
i believe in the need for an energy union.
madam president, the consequences of the increasingly frequent extreme weather events caused by climate change are having a devastating effect in certain regions of the european union.
preventing climate change and its harmful effects should be a leading eu policy.
these funds would have a much greater impact in preventing climate change by which we can avoid catastrophic natural events like this.
cohesion policy projects aimed at preventing the consequences of climate change create better and more sustainable jobs.
it is a sustainable way of stabilising the economies of the less developed member countries.
for this reason we have repeatedly warned the donor community that the gap between needs and funding is unfortunately not sustainable.
we have to find ways to increase funding and make it sustainable, otherwise it will be a short fix.
as president of the european parliament's delegation for relations with ukraine, i highly value president tusk's firm stance on the need to withdraw russian troops from eastern ukraine and believe that ukraine will remain a key subject of interest for the european parliament as it represents the most important european security issue and a test for the eu's foreign, neighbourhood and energy policy.
i consider it very important that, through the application of this regulation, the commission closely monitors whether ecuador is complying with its obligations, not only in terms of possible actions that could directly cause difficulties on the european market for these products, but also in terms of human and labour rights and environmental protection.
i believe that the agreement will ensure competitiveness and stability in the economy on the one hand, while on the other hand it should increase the protection of human and labour rights as well as the level of environmental protection.
if the money is used properly, it will lead to the exchange of knowledge and innovation in many areas such as agriculture and forestry, rural development, strengthening the competitiveness of all types of agriculture and the sustainability of the economy.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection.
mr president, a series of natural disasters, from floods to earthquakes to ice storms, have hit italy and greece, slovenia and croatia, causing significant damage to transport, energy and water networks and infrastructure, public buildings, private property and forests.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2014 because the financial resources saved by the late adoption of the legal basis of the european maritime and fisheries fund and the updated assessment of the state of play of the negotiations related to the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements will be directed to humanitarian crises.
i support this draft budget which concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and contributions based on vat and gni, the reduction of the appropriations allocated to the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for the sustainable fisheries partnership agreements.
thousands of people have been displaced, transportation and energy infrastructure damaged, crops and livestock destroyed, and housing flooded.
the increasingly large and costly impact of climate change is making it clear that the solidarity fund will become an increasingly important eu financial instrument.
the european union must change its approach to climate change as soon as possible.
as a community, we must direct our public policies towards preventing climate change.
in the context of the severe financial crisis europe is experiencing, it is important to direct budgetary expenditure towards sustainable growth and the creation of a competitive economy that will be able to drive progress and positive growth.
efforts should be stepped up to reduce the level of unpaid bills to a sustainable level, paying particular attention to cohesion policy.
i supported the proposal as one of the key points of the draft general budget for 2015 is to promote competitiveness, which is crucial for economic growth and job preservation, a greater role for smes as a guarantee of sustainable growth, but also to be ready to react quickly and effectively to situations such as the russian ban on food imports and to adapt to market needs.
i voted out of the resolution on the draft commission directive laying down the method of calculation and the reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels on the grounds that it calls for the withdrawal of the draft council directive which certainly does not achieve the highest necessary environmental protection standards but also aligns the need to reduce co2 emissions with the current needs of the fuel production and distribution sector.
the adoption of the resolution would prolong the procedure without precise deadlines and would in the short term cause greater damage to the environment.
the methods set out in this report do not provide a clear and precise formula for calculating greenhouse gas emissions into the environment.
the reason is that the documents submitted do not allow a precise assessment of the origin, the volume, the type and the life cycle of the greenhouse gases.
i call on the commission to adopt implementing measures relating to the greenhouse gas monitoring and reduction mechanism.
the commission is currently examining the methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and other non-biological energy sources.
in this context, i consider that the annual reports of suppliers should be harmonised before being submitted to the member states and then the member states should do the same in the commission's reporting process, all for the purpose of high-quality and simple monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the union.
while the proposal for this directive aims in principle to reduce greenhouse gas intensity, imposes a decarbonisation obligation, requires suppliers to calculate life cycle greenhouse gas emissions for biofuels, requires the use of the same average default values for all fossil raw materials, i consider that the methodology does not take into account all the necessary parameters that would guarantee further emission reductions or environmental integrity, and i support the re-drafting of the council directive.
i agree to the submission of the request for disaggregated average greenhouse gas intensity values and for reporting by raw material type for petrol and diesel fuels and for suppliers to be allowed to report on actual values.
the high levels of discarded catches have been identified as an important reason for the lack of environmental sustainability of the common fisheries policy and i have therefore supported this report.
the challenge of sustainable fishing is to bring factors under control that can be controlled during fishing to ensure that there are enough individuals in the sea to naturally replenish the population.
factors that cannot be influenced are population biomass increase and natural mortality, and these depend on environmental conditions and biological characteristics of the species (rejuvenation and growth).
since cod, herring and papalina have strong biological interactions, they are extremely important components of the baltic ecosystem.
the ecological conditions in the baltic can have a strong impact on the productivity of baltic fish stocks, in particular cod and parrotfish, and the council decision on tacs therefore seeks to reduce quotas (7% for the western part of the baltic and 22% for the eastern part) with a view to conserving those species.
i believe that the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources would be more effectively achieved through a multiannual approach to fisheries management and that it should be based on transparent and objective criteria, including those of an environmental, social and economic nature.
those new rules are crucial for a safe and stable insurance sector that can offer sustainable insurance products and support the real economy with long-term investment and additional stability.
we are aware that the creation of such a state is the key to a lasting, just and sustainable peace and to resolving the conflict that has generated instability in that part of the world for decades.
the only sustainable solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict will be one that is achieved through nonviolent methods.
at the same time, competition from countries such as china is investing in new plants and increasing steel production by using lower energy prices and cheaper labour.
the measure is described as necessary for the survival of the company, but it should take into account the fact that personnel costs represent only 4% of turnover, with the main costs being energy, raw materials and transport.
i call on the commission to take action to reduce the high energy costs that are damaging to the whole sector.
i support the european parliament resolution on the steel sector and the protection of workers and industry to make the industry sustainable and competitive.
this long-standing and complex challenge requires action, both at union and member state level, against trafficking and smuggling of human beings and criminal networks, ensuring the rapid and sustainable return of migrants in a humane and dignified manner and ensuring their right to access the european asylum system, as well as strengthening the management of the eu's external borders.
the worrying numbers of migrants in italy, greece and malta are not just a concern for those countries, but for the european union as a whole, and a fair distribution of responsibility among member states is a step towards achieving a sustainable migration and asylum policy for the european union.
the association agreement with georgia, following the ratification of similar agreements with ukraine and moldova, marks the space of cooperation with the democracies on the black sea coast, which unfortunately is increasingly becoming a space of confrontation, especially after the annexation of crimea and the growing doubts about the extension of new energy supply routes.
i voted out of the resolution on the commission delegated regulation amending annex iii on the application of the scheme of generalised tariff preferences due to the failure of the country concerned to implement the necessary requirements in the area of sustainable fisheries, affecting european fishermen and consumers.
these practices are not in line with the council regulation and the actions threaten the sustainability of the fishery.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, as that agreement represents a process of social, economic and legal approximation of georgia to european principles and standards.
the agreement provides for reforms in the following areas: public administration, justice and law enforcement, economic recovery and growth, consumer protection, energy, transport, environmental protection, industrial development, social development and protection, education, youth and culture.
i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, because the intensification and formalisation of relations with georgia contributes to peace and stability in the region and thus confirms georgia's sovereignty and territorial integrity.
the agreement also aims to reform georgia's trade policy to bring about a better and more predictable working environment, economic integration of georgia into the eu, increased contacts and mobility of people.
the agreement also supports georgia's political, social and economic efforts to increase energy security and environmental protection and to deepen socio-economic cooperation with the eu.