i therefore fully support the report by my colleague, mr rochefort, on his consumer protection programme for 2014-2020, which provides for a sustainable high level of consumer protection and support for consumer protection organisations.
− the amendment of the new light commercial vehicle regulation is an important step towards achieving the union's greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
while emissions in other sectors are mostly declining, road transport is one of the sectors where emissions are increasing rapidly.
i supported the first reading agreement because, in addition to encouraging manufacturers to meet the above climate targets, it takes into account that car manufacturing is one of the most competitive industries in the eu and could be severely affected by inadequate regulation.
- it is pointless to favour co2 emissions in this way, rather the emission of microparticles should be reduced urgently, because it is a million times more dangerous than co2.
if the goal is to reduce co2 emissions from transport, then the best way to do that is to use a gas car or an electric car.
it is also important that, in the post-crisis market environment, where consumers have to make decisions on complex issues, they have reliable and verifiable information and a platform for alternative dispute resolution in case of possible disputes.
instead, we need thorium-based nuclear power plants that do not generate long-lived hazardous waste and that can supply the earth for at least 200 years at a cost equivalent to half of today's electricity.
former feed and industrial waste are now reformed, dry bread is now glossy jam, wallpaper glue is now cut up and i could list them.
- recycling and reuse of plastic waste.
maybe we shouldn't have waited for a country of plastic waste islands to form in the seas.
rural development is the key to rural sustainability.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products.
as the people's party shadow rapporteur on the employment committee, i believe it is important that the aspects of socially sustainable public procurement are taken into account at all stages of the public procurement process.
the solution is contained in the amendment proposal of the environment committee, which would exempt honey as a natural product from the obligation to indicate the ingredients.
please support the environmental committee's proposition 10 in tomorrow's vote, which is a solution to this problem.
so i think we should accept the amendments proposed by the committee on the environment.
they are not allowing the replanting of acacia forests, and a commission proposal recently even wants to ban the planting of acacia for energy purposes, for energy forest purposes, although the acacia is not only important for the bees, but also brings income to farmers.
it can be produced profitably in places where other trees do not grow, and is also important for renewable energy production.
the union needs an industrial policy approach that integrates competitiveness, sustainability and fair work.
this can be achieved by developing knowledge-based industries such as medicine, energy, computer technology.
while the latter carries serious environmental and conservation risks, such as the release of farmed fish species and the harmful discharge of organic matter into the sea, freshwater fisheries in closed systems or in brackish ponds pose no threat to the environment and even increase biodiversity.
this recommendation concerns scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation and proposes the renewal of the agreement, following the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on budgets.
− modernising public procurement rules can significantly contribute to sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion within the single market.
the public procurement reform should be based on simplification of rules, sustainability, better and wider use of e-procurement, and greater involvement of smes.
the importance of socially sustainable public procurement, which takes into account social, labour and environmental considerations, is of great importance.
international cooperation should contribute to the sustainable economic, social and environmental development of developing countries, to improving employment conditions and to reducing poverty.
i would really urge those who raise the blue card to have a clear question so we can have a clear answer, otherwise we will just waste our time.
this requires europe to become competitive again and to create new jobs and a sustainable growth path through reindustrialisation.
hungary intends to make energy services non-profit.
last week, a european commission official complained about the regulation of retail energy prices in 17 eu member states and suggested various measures against the member states concerned.
innovative steel products provide durability and energy efficiency in a number of strategic sectors.
the difficult situation is further aggravated by the fact that the union steel industry is at a serious competitive disadvantage due to high european energy prices, strict environmental standards and trade restrictions imposed by developing countries.
if either of those two is missing, then this trade will not be sustainable in the long run.
in particular, dumping and distortions of raw material and energy prices, such as the tensions over rare earth metals.
consequently, trade defence instruments should be used much more effectively, small and medium-sized enterprises should be involved in such procedures as much as possible, penalties should be applied to products on the road so that retaliatory measures cannot be circumvented, and in particular, in raw materials and energy, deterrent duties should be applied, which should be retaliatory in nature in order to discourage anyone who tries to do so.
the debate on the 2030 climate and energy targets between member states and within the commission seems to have been resolved by a more ambitious 40% emission reduction target, while a more moderate 27% renewable energy target has been set.
i also believe it is of the utmost importance that the member states retain full autonomy in defining the energy mix, including nuclear energy and shale gas.
the union's long-term commitment to climate and energy policy is essential for europe's security of energy supply, economic competitiveness and prosperity.
the commission should also be able to assess the impact of the union's climate change policy on the union's climate and energy policies, including the impact of the union's climate and energy policies on the union's climate and energy policies.
long-term investment cycles require ambitious targets that provide adequate incentives to deploy low-carbon technologies and strengthen the union's green economy.
at the same time, a balance of objectives must be sought, as we cannot ignore the performance of the economy, the evolution of the global energy market and the modest emission reduction ambitions of international actors.
taking into account those factors, a binding carbon reduction target for 2030 should be introduced, which takes into account economic realities and the outcome of international climate negotiations.
moreover, a greater focus should be placed on striking a balance between ambitious climate objectives and the competitiveness of union industry.
it is therefore necessary to ensure that climate objectives take into account the performance of member states and do not impose an excessive burden on citizens by incorporating appropriate flexibility tools.
- i find the report supportive as it initiates the exchange of best practice in member states on natural disaster risks, geography and climate and draws attention to the fact that natural and man-made disasters require different types of insurance and belong to two different insurance markets and therefore cannot be treated together, even though in some cases human decisions increase exposure to natural disaster risk.
these prohibited activities cause serious distortions in the markets for raw materials and energy in particular.
this includes activities that could distort the commodity and energy markets and i voted accordingly.
organic, ethical, sustainable development has no roots.
first of all, i support the idea that the european commission should ensure that when adopting legal acts, it guarantees the safety of seafarers, chooses the least complex and most economically efficient scenario and takes into account the three pillars of sustainable development.
after you've worked for it, bought it, and brought it home, you want it to work properly and not interfere with the proper operation of other devices in your environment.
the new legislative framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more uniform implementation of technical standards, which will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators and equal assessment of notified bodies across the union market.
based on the experience of the last 10 years, it is appropriate to adjust the regulatory environment.
there is no alternative to the realistic, sustainable and mutually beneficial strategic relationship that mr lambsdorff and mr brok have so wrongly discussed here.
madam president, while we need more sustainable and diversified means of transport, improving the development of european inland waterway transport is crucial, especially for freight.
- i did not support the own-initiative report of parliament on the 2030 climate and energy package because the amendments adopted by the plenary resulted in a decision that does not take into account the competitiveness of individual member states, the achievements of the member states in terms of reducing emissions and the performance of european industry.
in my view, the realistic regulatory path would have been to define a headline emission reduction target, which would have allowed member states the flexibility to implement it, including full autonomy in defining and shaping the energy mix, as proposed by the european commission.
in my view, the best way to reconcile climate policy objectives with competitiveness considerations is to focus on the transition to a low-carbon economy rather than pushing for different solutions and targets, such as reducing emissions, energy efficiency and making renewable energy competitive.
- i voted in favour of the proposals for a framework for climate and energy policy for 2030. i am convinced that the eu attaches great importance to the climate objectives, sustainable development, security of energy supply, economic and technological competitiveness and the achievement of the single energy market.
my view, which is consistent with the motion, is that environmental factors affect human health and that the objectives of the union's energy policy should therefore include the functioning of the energy market, security of (energy) supply, energy efficiency, energy saving and that the union's environmental policy should contribute to preserving, protecting and improving the quality of the environment.
i also welcome the linking of climate and energy policies for 2030 to climate change for social and economic recovery and sustainable growth, and the careful consideration of pressing economic and social issues such as energy security, high energy costs for industry and households, the need for job creation and economic recovery and the transition to a sustainable growth model.
i therefore fully support the measures envisaged in the motion, both in terms of environmental protection and in economic and social terms.
in order not to be contradicted by my duty as vice-president in the vote on the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies, when the group voted differently from the hungarian members in the nominal votes, i did not participate directly in the vote.
brics countries are achieving significant economic gains, often with unfortunate environmental and social damage.
this will contribute to sustainable economic growth, primarily through improving the quality of employment and raising social standards.
i also welcome the fact that priority will be given to local and regional products, with a view in particular to reducing food waste at every stage of the distribution chain.
hopefully the fund will promote social cohesion, enhance social inclusion, reduce poverty and contribute to the sustainable eradication of food poverty.
- i welcome the fact that tackling the social consequences of the crisis is one of the five priorities listed in the annual growth survey for 2014. it is very important that the employment and social affairs sector is not overshadowed by the focus on fiscal consolidation and that the headline target of increasing employment is firstly kept on the agenda, and secondly, further promoted by investing in sustainable job creation.
in addition to increasing production, it is necessary to develop crop varieties that can adapt to changing environmental conditions, provide sufficient yields and are of good quality.
enabling disadvantaged young people to fulfil their potential and participate actively at local, regional, national and european level is therefore not only an economic imperative and an essential factor for the achievement of greater social inclusion but also a necessity for the sound and sustainable development of their communities.
however, women’s work in fishing and related activities is often invisible, complementing the work carried out by their partners in an economic climate that is becoming increasingly harsh for family businesses.
a prime example of this abuse of power is the case of wood-based energy crops.
i support the proposal to support the eu horticultural sector through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change mitigation and to make it more competitive on the world market.
it was not an easy task, as the ambitious environmental objectives and the coordination of the needs of the market players required a great deal of coordination and a willingness to compromise on the part of all the players.
the 2030 climate and energy package should take into account the economic performance, technological constraints and the low ambition of international actors to reduce emissions, which is key to the long-term competitiveness of union industry.
but in addition to climate considerations, we must also reduce energy prices.
energy prices that are two or three times higher than those of our competitors place an excessive burden on the union industry.
brussels and the member states must therefore do everything possible to keep energy prices under control.
it is also worrying that, although the union has taken several steps in recent years to interconnect energy systems, several central european member states, including my country, hungary, would not have a real alternative if russian gas supplies were to be cut off.
however, some regulations, including environmental, consumer, labour and other fisheries regulations, are much more lenient than european rules.
- the appropriate transfer of nutrition knowledge would reduce healthcare costs and contribute to improving the health of the population, the quality of food and respect for the environment.
- f-gases have a global warming effect of up to 22,000 times that of carbon dioxide, making them a major contributor to global warming.
with the regulation adopted today, i have supported a compromise that will allow both the competitiveness of european industry to be maintained and the environmental objectives set by the eu to be achieved.
a third reason is the very limited capacity of the european central bank to improve financing conditions in a sustainable way.
its proposals will help individuals to control their personal data and to trust the digital environment.
the operator of an energy network, a road network, a hospital or a banking system must ensure that the most appropriate solutions are used and that the equipment is always up to date.
it should also be ensured that the cloud computing environment provides competent protection for sensitive and critical infrastructure data.
we need to make sure that the energy sector, the sewerage system, the water system, the district heating, the gas pipelines, the public transportation lines can be used to build pipelines cheaper and faster.
the amendment of the ets directive to international aviation emissions is also of particular importance for market predictability and foreseeability.
the ets's aviation rules seek to reduce emissions in the fight against climate change, an objective that has been blocked from the outset by international protests, causing a lot of uncertainty in the markets.
this long debate can be brought to a close by the compromise now reached, which provides a reassuring framework for the sector's emissions in europe until a comprehensive global agreement is reached.
i am convinced that, in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality as set out in the digital agenda for europe, as applied by the commission, this regulation should apply to all card-based payment transactions, regardless of the environment in which the transaction takes place, including retail payment instruments and services, which may be offline, online or mobile, and transactions carried out with commercial cards.
the hungarian economy has been on a sustainable growth path, we can keep the public deficit below 3% for a long time, so we have pursued a successful economic policy.
i support the recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service, stressing the importance of recognising the importance of free european media, in particular financially sustainable and independent public service broadcasting, in promoting the democratic values of the union and informing the public, in particular by helping to understand the issues that unite or divide europe and by bringing european citizens closer together through a better understanding of foreign policy developments.
- i voted in favour of the report because, like the rapporteur, i am convinced that the overall objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh are priorities and that this regulation should be guided by these values.
with regard to the management of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation.
i also think it is very important to draw attention to the fact that given the current economic crisis, we should not waste money on medicines that are not effective and people should be able to make informed decisions about their health.
- i voted in favour of the report because it confirms the need for urgent action to limit greenhouse gas emissions from aviation.
the aviation sector is rapidly increasing its greenhouse gas emissions and, if no action is taken, the increase in these gases could hamper the achievement of the intergovernmental panel on climate change's 2050 reduction target of no more than 2 degrees celsius.
i agree with the rapporteur that amendments are needed to ensure more ambitious targets and equal treatment with other industries, as currently the aviation sector only needs to reduce its maximum emissions by 5% and the other sectors by 21%.
on the basis of the above, i believe that when it comes to climate issues, it is crucial that all parties involved are team players, working together to achieve a common goal.
with regard to the management of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in 2012, the final accounts report states that the financial review was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the investigation.
as regards the management of the european environment agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit.
as regards the management of the european environment agency for 2012, the final accounts report concludes that the financial audit was carried out in an orderly manner and that no deficiencies were found during the audit.
- in the context of the closure of the accounts for the year 2012, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of the parliament's decision to postpone the discharge to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing.
with regard to the management of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter for 2012, the final report concludes that the financial review was carried out in a sound manner and that no deficiencies were found in the audit.
- in the context of the closure of the 2012 accounts procedure, on the basis of the court of auditors' annual report and the recommendation of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of parliament granting the director of the european joint undertaking for the development of fusion energy and iter discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2012.
in writing.
the report welcomes the fact that the european commission at the initiative of the european parliament has started the legal environment review for the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, the creation of which will allow for a stronger response to financial fraud cases in the community.
don't waste it and give your buddies the eu money, they give it to the entrepreneurs.
the rapporteur identified four main themes: telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy markets, which are sufficiently embedded and integrated into the internal market.
the only area i would like to stress is the energy market, which the commissioner has also mentioned.
the expansion of electric transport is also of major interest to hungary because of its reduction in oil dependence and air pollution.
the expansion of the paks nuclear power plant and the increase in renewable energy sources will allow the use of domestically produced electricity in transport to increase.
it is therefore important that the eu works closely with south korea to build a secure global digital environment.
- given that the proposal in question aims to promote the competitiveness of the french overseas departments in order to compensate for their isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the need to stockpile more, the small size of the local market and the low level of exports, i suggest that it be considered.
there are a number of major challenges that we need to face together: climate change, security in europe, the situation in our neighbouring countries, immigration.
therefore, we need now a presidency which is able to focus on a limited number of strategic priorities: to strengthen our industrial competitiveness, move towards energy independence and build a digital content.
secondly, i would like to draw your attention to a policy issue, and in particular the commission's attention to the importance of energy prices.
i would like to draw the commission's attention to the need to review this possibility in terms of energy prices.
i think we could extend that to energy prices.
to be able to compete with their american counterparts, european companies need to reduce energy prices.
there's no way that's going to work with current energy prices.
the conclusion of the convention must not jeopardise human health, the environment or the interests of consumers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: the environment, the environment policy, the environment and the environment policy.
i voted in favour of developing the dual vocational education system, transforming the higher education system towards real objects, creating a new environment favourable to smes and supporting extensive vocational experience and training.
it is urgently required that member states act unanimously as one european union and thus develop a true common foreign, security and defence policy, including a common energy policy, which takes account of the regional and global challenges of the 21st century.
climate change, the capriciousness of weather, has made floods and other disasters more frequent.
it seems that humanity's recklessness in protecting the environment has perpetuated and systematized these situations.
human behavior is unlikely to change any time soon, so environmental destruction continues, with all its harmful consequences.
spain's cañete, with its significant oil interests, will thus be responsible for ensuring that europe's climate and energy policy is sufficiently ambitious and that the union plays a leading role at the paris climate summit at the end of next year, where an international system capable of preventing the catastrophic consequences of climate change should be agreed.
as a guarantee of the validation of leftist values, within the new, more focused structure of the juncker commission, the areas that are perhaps most important for the future (external relations, sustainable development, energy, fundamental rights) are supervised by vice-presidents who are aligned with the left.
this is particularly true for serbia, which was hit by severe flooding in the spring, further exacerbating the country's difficult economic situation and energy dependence, while it received perhaps the most positive country report from the european commission among the countries in the region.
the eu's effective and swift support can empower serbia's leaders to continue on the path of european integration and building a strong rule of law in this delicate and complex foreign and security policy environment.
madam president, energy security is a cornerstone of the common european energy policy.
furthermore, russian energy companies are known to provide a means of influence for the russian government beyond mere business transactions.
these investments will strongly affect european energy security as they will strengthen the trap of technology dependency, link the european energy supply to a nuclear-fuel cycle largely dependent on russian capacities, and make european energy supply more vulnerable through closer financial ties to the russian state and companies’ integral links to it.
europe should take urgent action to deal with member state decisions that threaten europeʼs energy security.
the economic shock of the transition failed to create sustainable economic policies, and the breakdown of solidarity plunged millions into desperate poverty, deprived them of their livelihoods, and made them victims of punitive social policies - calling into question the social contract itself.
the approaching winter, however, suggests very serious problems with energy supply in ukraine, and i wonder whether the european institutions have a proper energy security strategy in place, which serves the energy security not only of the european member states but also of the associated member state, ukraine.
the european parliament resolution underlines the need to shift the tax burden towards more sustainable forms of taxation in order to stimulate growth and job creation, i.e.
sustainable farming practices and responsible use of resources also offer the potential for substantial production increases.
agriculture and related industries, such as wood and furniture production or energy production from biomass and biogas, can create many permanent and seasonal jobs.
new unjustified animal welfare, food safety or environmental restrictions such as the increase of the ecological focus area should not be imposed.
a predictable commercial legal environment is essential for a successful continuation.
the finnish authorities argue that the global maritime sector has changed dramatically in recent years and that in such a global environment the eu market share in shipbuilding has decreased sharply.
the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assess the impact of the eu's policies on the environment.
the union is at the forefront of reducing carbon emissions.
climate change is a global issue.
the european union is responsible for 10 to 12% of emissions, and this will fall to 4 to 5% by 2030. so really, the only way to make progress in this area is on a global scale.
it should be recognised that the commitment of the member states also means that they determine their energy mix.
for example, some countries are promoting nuclear power as a clean source of energy.
of course, it would be good to have more green, renewable energy, but we cannot ignore the costs.
yes, we who say we represent the interests of the european population never talk about the issue of energy poverty here, that for many families in europe the cost of energy is a huge item, so you cannot exclude the cost from this issue.
in 2009, the european union unilaterally committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 1990 levels.
the european council of 23 and 24 october 2014 committed to an intra-eu emission reduction of at least 40% by 2030 compared to 1990. for the first time since the united states and china announced their commitment in november 2014, i see hope that we can effectively tackle climate change through a real international partnership.
regardless of these commitments, the us energy price is expected to remain well below the european average for decades to come.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, according to the european commission, the european union is responsible for 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is well on track to meet its own reduction commitments.
with its seal of approval and the targets of the recently sanctioned 2030 climate and energy framework, europe can therefore once again sit confidently at the negotiating table at the un climate conference in december.
the fight against climate change will only be successful in the future if other developed countries and currently large developing emitters make ambitious commitments comparable to those of the eu before the 2015 paris conference.
the union cannot solve the global emissions reduction deficit on its own.
we need to act now, because climate change is already causing serious problems for every country.
as regards the objectives set out in the proposal, i would like to draw attention to the following: on the one hand, the eu's strict commitments are worthless unless other economies, which are much more polluting and emit more carbon than the eu economy, commit themselves to at least the same level of commitment.
the eu negotiating delegation should therefore demand that it only commits itself to stricter commitments and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if other economies responsible for the earth's greenhouse gas emissions, such as the united states or china, do the same.
on the other hand, the role of renewable energy production and energy efficiency in households and industry should be given much greater prominence.
the eu must refrain from any action that hinders the use of renewable energy.
and it's also hard to measure carbon emissions here.
- according to the european commission, the european union is responsible for 11% of global greenhouse gas emissions and is well on track to meet its own reduction commitments.
the fight against climate change will only be successful in the future if other developed countries and currently large developing emitters make ambitious commitments comparable to those of the eu before the 2015 paris conference.
the union cannot solve the global emissions reduction deficit on its own.
the key to boosting european steel demand is to improve the business environment and to create a competitive industrial framework.
to achieve this goal, two key areas need to change: lower energy prices and reduced regulatory costs, otherwise competitiveness will remain a pipe dream.
firstly, as regards the decrease in energy prices, energy costs in the steel industry represent a significant part of the production costs.
the rapid implementation of the single european energy market, the completion of missing infrastructures, the elimination of bottlenecks in cross-border capacity and the provision of competing energy sources are essential to reduce energy prices.
europe must continue to lead in the areas of sustainability, green economy and climate protection.
however, this should avoid the risk of carbon leakage and the risk of jeopardising the competitiveness of the steel industry.
the un working group on sustainable development goals, in its report, sets out as a specific goal, as we heard this morning, the reduction of the number of hungry and malnourished children under five by 40 percent by 2025. this is a task for all of us and it also means that the european commission has to make concrete proposals.
this deficiency significantly undermines the credibility, effectiveness and sustainability of cohesion policy.
– madam president, the green group and i warmly welcome and support the accession of the eu to cites, which is one of the world’s most powerful tools for biodiversity conservation.
let me remind you that, despite the eu’s commitment to halve the loss of biodiversity in the eu by 2020 and to restore biodiversity wherever possible, in the longer term – as well as in the long-term vision for biodiversity for 2050 – natural capital and ecosystems services are being continuously depleted.
it is estimated that each year we lose 3% of our gdp due to the loss of biodiversity.
thus we must step up efforts in europe to achieve our biodiversity targets.
we must ensure that none of the policies of the eu or of its member states have harmful impacts on biodiversity.
we must reinvest in natural capital, construct green infrastructure and ensure that all spending under the eu budget is supportive of halting the loss of biodiversity.
i therefore urge the european commission and all european decision-makers to set their priorities and structure their work mindful of the biodiversity targets, and not to compromise biodiversity, as it is crucial to sustaining the ecological systems and the services we all depend on.
reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of fuels is an important part of the european union's efforts to combat climate change.
we are responsible for protecting our environment, for the competitiveness of our continent, for the preservation of our jobs.
it is a compromise proposal, so it is far from perfect, but after lengthy negotiations, a consensus solution has been reached, which will finally allow the work on reducing emissions to begin.
it sounds good for distributors to report the greenhouse gas emissions of the raw materials they actually use.
i would like to see the vice-president responsible for the energy union, mr šefčovič, engage in decisive and early consultations on this issue with candidate serbia, as he has done with the other eu member states concerned.
the serbian government has already stressed its continued commitment to the eu, and i think that this highly energy-dependent country needs to feel the support of the eu in this very difficult matter, helping to preserve the stability of serbian domestic politics.
i consider it important that, as the recommendation states, the accession of the european union to cites is a logical and necessary step towards the full achievement of the objectives of the eu's environmental policy.
the current state of the ukrainian economy and the situation of the ukrainian energy sector also have an impact on the european union.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture (accompanying and horizontal policies).
we would like to see a growth-oriented commission work programme creating all the conditions needed for more jobs, more mobility on the labour market and therefore better educational skills, notably in the it sector, and the establishment of a real energy single market ensuring energy security and supply and going further towards a real and secular digital single market.
we also support your endeavours to have less bureaucracy at all stages at the national and union level, using taxpayers’ money in a more efficient way in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, as well as simplifying the life of the economic actors, farmers, smes, because entrepreneurship needs a friendly environment without unnecessary administrative burdens and obstacles, and facilities in capital and financing access.
like the citizens, i expect the commission to propose solutions to key economic and social challenges such as fighting unemployment, energy security or improving competitiveness.
and we need to support renewable energy production much more strongly than we currently do if we want to achieve long-term energy security in the eu.
i find it disappointing that the european commission's 2015 work programme has only mentioned r & d and innovation once in a meaningful way: the energy union vision includes support for these activities, an initiative i share widely.
it is extremely worrying that the new commission has withdrawn draft legislation that is essential for sustainability, including the circular economy package and the air quality regulatory plan, as well as the draft revision of the energy taxation directive.
the withdrawal of the circular economy, resource efficiency and waste recycling project is also shocking because it was the result of a serious social consultation and would serve the long-term interests of both the public and the economic operators.
the waste targets, as indicated in the baseline studies, the impact assessment and the commission's own communication, would create around 500 000 new jobs, stimulate innovation, significantly reduce harmful impacts on human health and the environment and significantly reduce the demand for rare raw materials.
i think that's what energy projects are like.
the barroso package has already focused on energy infrastructure, but we are still talking about dependency and lack of connections.
the only way to ensure a secure and affordable energy supply for european citizens and businesses is to create a single energy market.
in the long run, it is cheaper energy that can make europe more competitive.
the hungarian government should propose programs that reduce our country's energy dependence.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
the ep only agreed to the eu budget for next year on condition that the european commission develops a plan to reduce unpaid bills to sustainable levels.
reducing the greenhouse gas emissions of fuels sold is a key element of the european union's efforts to combat climate change.
at the same time, we must achieve our objectives in a sustainable way, taking into account the interests of industry.
we need to create regulations that reduce the bureaucratic burden on economic actors and effectively promote sustainable climate protection.
the directive would introduce a single value for the greenhouse gas intensity of all types of fuel.
this means, among other things, that shale oil (or shale oil) will not be distinguished from conventional crude oil, although it is responsible for more greenhouse gas emissions.
the draft was submitted to parliament after some five years of preparation, with the basic objective of reducing the oil industry's greenhouse gas emissions by 6% by 2020. however, it seems that this project has not fully lived up to the expectations attached to it.
the socialists and democrats in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were unanimous in their opposition to the draft.
the key to boosting european steel demand is to improve the business environment, to create a competitive industrial framework.
i voted in favour of making energy price controls and the control of carbon dioxide emissions a priority of the european commission's work and of the commission accelerating the preparation of the industrial roadmap, given the strategic importance of the steel industry, since the reindustrialisation of europe can only be achieved through concerted action.
while georgia will gain market access to the largest trading bloc, the eu will enjoy a more favourable trading environment and investment conditions in georgia.
my vote contributed to the modernisation of the georgian economy, the consolidation of eu investments and a more predictable political and regulatory environment.