however, it is important that we do everything we can to reduce co2 emissions in all areas of life, especially as we work to reduce the impact of climate change on the planet.
therefore, the commission will focus on the transport and storage of waste, especially in the case of various vehicles that emit a lot of co2 into the atmosphere.
therefore, by having a target to reduce these emissions gradually, there will be an industrial in an effort to do so and there will be a solution to these problems.
light commercial vehicles contribute in excess of 13% of all co2 emissions in the eu.
our objective has been to achieve a 60% reduction in these emissions by 2050.
in writing.
− i voted in favour of this report to set emissions targets for vans in order to help reduce fuel consumption, keep european producers at the forefront of technological innovation, while at the same time benefiting the environment.
the vans regulation limits co2 emissions from new vans to a fleet average of 175 g of co2 per km by 2017 – with the target phased in from 2014 – and 147 g/km by 2020. this legislation is a clear win-win for both the consumers and the automotive industry in europe.
− the introduction of targets to reduce plastic waste is vitally important, especially for the marine sector as marine litter is a serious and ever-increasing problem, with up to 10 million tons of litter, mostly plastic, ending up in the world’s oceans and seas.
− the purpose of this own initiative report was to deal with the public policy challenges of plastic waste management currently not addressed by eu waste legislation.
when managed correctly plastic waste should be seen as a valuable resource to be reused, recycled and recovered.
proper waste management of plastic products and packages helps promote energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and conserve resources.
i was, as you know, president of a region, of a department in my own country, i launched many tenders and i often regretted the lack of security when my teams and i chose the best in terms of social, environmental, innovation.
a few words on public procurement first, simplified rules that are more efficient and more modern, new rules that will support, through public procurement, environmental protection, innovation, social inclusion, and also respect for social and labour law.
i come to this from the point of view of the committee on industry, research and industry, of which i am honoured to be a member, and particularly in relation to four areas: smes, innovation, energy efficiency and fiscal responsibility.
on energy efficiency, we have to meet the 2020 targets, and i welcome the rules on that.
contractors will be bound by labour, social and environmental obligations, which must also be respected by any subcontractors, in accordance with eu and national laws.
madam president, the key words here are ‘reindustrialising’, ‘competitiveness’ and ‘sustainability’.
competitivness and sustainability, i think, are different a kettle of fish and are more problematic.
i have come from a meeting where we were discussing the impact of gas prices on fertiliser, and in the course of that discussion, commissioner tajani was quoted as saying that energy prices would lead to an industrial massacre in europe.
on the other hand we have the americans developing shale gas, with the price of energy going down there and up in europe.
we have to be far more sustainable, utilise our resources and bring down energy costs before we can become industrialised, let alone reindustrialised.
the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment.
this represents a constant flow of public investment that can be used as a powerful lever for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− i welcome the new directive on procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
this represents a constant flow of public investment that can be used as a powerful lever for achieving smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
it is a major cause of biodiversity loss, and this funding will help with enforcement and international cooperation to address this worrying phenomenon.
it should also build trust with our partners and show we are serious about fighting biodiversity loss around the globe.
− i was happy to support this resolution tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety aimed at keeping wildlife high on the political agenda in the eu.
the common goal of our work is to develop sustainable policies and to put them into practice.
in relation to the environmental debate here this morning, it is clear that the ‘polluter pays’ principle is one which is not put into practice.
what we are trying to put in place is a means of making people responsible for their actions when these damage the environment.
that requires definitions and legal clarity, but the enormous toll when there is damage to communities and the marine environment is too serious to be left in legal limbo.
this communication therefore proposes a fresh approach to industrial policy that will strengthen eu competitiveness, provide growth and jobs, and enable the transition to a low-carbon and resource-efficient economy.
the recent crisis has hit european economies hard, particularly the industrial sector, and the new concept of industry as being sustainable, efficient and innovative is very important and strategic.
this regulation establishes an improved common framework for supplying the commission with data on investment projects in energy infrastructure.
- i voted in favour of this report, as it is essential that we try to reach our ambitious targets for 2030 for energy efficiency and renewable energies as well as for greenhouse gas emissions.
i welcome a shift within the eu in the way energy is produced and consumed.
is bunchloch in your area are small farms in your area, and they provide employment in your community, they provide biodiversity and they provide quality products in your community, and they provide quality in your community.
the european commission’s 2009 white paper on adapting to climate change suggested publicly-supported insurance schemes where no insurance exists and concluded that, due to the cross-border effects of climate change, there may be merit in promoting a european-wide insurance scheme.
- the eu needs to be able to apply higher duties on countries exporting subsidised or dumped products to the eu whenever these countries do not respect core international labour organisation (ilo) conventions or basic environmental standards.
the level of duties that can be applied to dumped or subsidised imported goods should vary according to the extent to which the exporting country applies international social and environmental standards and should also take account of whether the imports originate from a less-developed country pursuing its development agenda.
the comment by putin that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) people attending could feel comfortable as long as they leave the children alone are a testament to the climate of hate that exists: to an environment where promoting homosexuality is a criminal offence and where criminal gangs can kidnap and violently assault lgbt people with impunity.
whereas we are opposed, in line with the precautionary principle, to any hydraulic fracturing activities that could in any way harm the environment, we must also respect the sovereignty of eu member states in determining their own energy mix, in accordance with treaties and the principle of subsidiarity.
that principle gives ireland the freedom to decide our energy priorities, and setting a precedent for undermining such a principle could have potentially harmful unintended consequences for ireland in the future.
debt restructuring, redemption funds, eurobonds are all … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the european entrepreneurial region award is part of a scheme which recognises regions for their excellent work in promoting entrepreneurism through forward thinking and sustainable governance.
gender equality is not only morally right, it is necessary to human progress and sustainable development.
these are not just words, they describe the lives of real people and i would say to mr[nbsp ]barroso, who i think is no longer with us, that yes, some small progress has been made but for many countries it is not a sustainable model.
let us talk about sustainable jobs and growth.
- passenger cars alone are responsible for around 12[nbsp ]% of co2 emissions in the eu.
the agreement not only protects the climate but will also save consumers money and will boost innovation and competitiveness in the eu car industry, creating much needed jobs in the process.
it is a win-win for climate, consumers, innovation and jobs.
it should also lower costs and reduce complexity, which is what we constantly ask for when we are trying or acting to provide a supportive environment for smes.
we wanted to simplify the administrative procedures for organisations which would be accessing fead funding, and we wanted to ensure that fead would complement other european initiatives such as those aimed at reducing food waste, promoting public health and sourcing local produce.
we need to put more emphasis on tackling the social consequences of the economic and financial crisis and promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, with more and higher quality employment, and higher social standards.
and the consequences of deforestation are life-threatening for biodiversity, indigenous communities and anyone living on this planet.
i would be interested in some observations on paragraph[nbsp ]12 about the level of funding for the programme countries, but i also acknowledge that, in terms of ireland, the support there has increased by 35[nbsp ]% to eur[nbsp ]680 million in 2013 and that a lot of this investment has gone to communications, broadband, energy and education.
- i supported the resolution on the european investment bank activities in 2012. the eib is a key player in supporting the european economy, promoting sustainable growth and employment.
i welcome the call in this resolution urging the eib to update its climate change strategy by the end of 2015 and recalling its commitment to end the public funding of fossil fuel projects and to shift to energy efficiency and renewable energy projects.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
- madam president, i have one minute to summarise two year’s work, so let us not waste time.
i would support mr van nistelrooij’s comments that we need to bring manufacturing into the european union so that we can create sustainable jobs.
by pushing ahead with implementation of the single european sky, we can share airspace better, reduce emissions and make our airlines more competitive.
this can disrupt air traffic, inconvenience passengers, increase fuel consumption and increase co2 emissions.
we need to reorganise europe’s airspace in a more efficient way for environmental, economic and safety reasons.
- i welcome parliament’s approval of the compromise regulation reached with the council last december to phase down the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases).
f-gases are used in a variety of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, in insulation foams, electrical equipment, aerosol sprays and solvents, and in fire-protection systems and have a global warming potential up to 23[nbsp ]000 times more potent than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years.
the progressive phasing out of f-gases will not only reduce greenhouse gas emissions but also support the market deployment of sustainable alternatives as well as the 400 or so smaller companies that produce them.
- i voted in favour of the report as it will provide for the reduction of fluorinated greenhouse gas emissions by two-thirds of todayʼs levels by 2030.
mr president, i supported this proposal on the free movement of workers, which is of course the cornerstone of the common or internal market, ensuring the equal treatment of non-national workers and national workers with regard to employment, remuneration and other conditions of employment.
there are some improvements, but any legislation on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment that does not require a mandatory environmental impact assessment on hydraulic fracturing or fracking is, in my opinion, poor european legislation.
this parliament here voted in favour of mandatory environmental impact assessment for fracking.
therefore, a mandatory environmental impact assessment would at least have plugged some of the gaps in european legislation until the commission came forward with their proposals.
it is about whether, at european level, we have proper legislation in place to protect the environment.
this piece of legislation flunks that test and is a poor outcome for those who want to protect the environment.
- the eia directive is one of the major instruments for environment and health protection.
these improvements include the independence of experts and avoidance of conflicts of interest; the fact that additional environmental factors must be taken into account such as biodiversity and climate change; an increase in better information and the participation of the public.
all of these are crucial to ensuring a strong eu environmental law policy.
it is important we think about the overall impact a strong and effective eia will have on the environment and it would be a shame to forego this opportunity.
- i voted in favour of the revised environmental impact assessment directive.
i note that i also welcome the fact that the new directive places greater emphasis on additional environmental factors such as climate change, biodiversity and the impact on water, as well as on ensuring better information and public participation.
i note that the revised directive has been warmly welcomed by the european environmental bureau and i am happy to support it.
- the fine gael delegation in parliament voted against this report because it does not provide for mandatory environmental impact assessments for shale gas exploration, evaluation and extraction.
if we do not manage to restore economic growth in the programme countries, so that their public and private sectors can grow out of past debts, and if we do not manage to restore social progress, then the sustainability of the emu will be threatened.
a long-term solution is desirable for the sustainability of the mackerel stocks, for the socio-economic interests of the fishing and the processing sectors.
not only will this help the environment and reduce costs by reducing waste, but the new rules we approved will get rid of the unnecessary and frustrating inconvenience consumers are faced with through the incompatibility of mobile phone chargers.
- the european commission must present a budget for 2015 that promotes sustainable growth and jobs all across europe.
i was rapporteur on data protection for the committee on industry, research and energy and the lobbying done – if you want to call it that – was open, transparent and very informative.
the simple reason why we have 26 million people unemployed across europe, including nearly 100[nbsp ]000 in my own constituency of dublin, is because there are not enough jobs, and the way to reduce unemployment is for europe to move its focus from one-sided austerity towards sustainable growth.
i did not think i would ever come in here and say that, but sadly this union has proven that we are for kicking, not for anything else so it seems..... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership has the potential to damage our environment and devastate the rights of workers, producers and consumers.
we need to focus on giving them the skills that the market needs, and that they are able to respond to what employers really need so that we can be sure that our young people have sustainable jobs.
through its close trade and cooperation ties with israel, the eu can and must exert more pressure on israel towards a sustainable, long-term solution.
madam president, ban ki-moon’s un climate change summit later this month should be an opportunity to provide a much needed refocusing for political leaders across the world to pledge serious climate commitments.
as the global poor suffer from a climate crisis not of their doing, developed regions such as europe must take the lead on this issue and it is regrettable, therefore, that the european commission has not adopted a more ambitious position.
europe’s political leaders have to start listening to scientists, environmental groups and people’s movements that will be on the streets across the world this sunday, including in my own native town of dublin, the people’s picnic, and stop listening to the scare stories of lost profits spread by big business who will decry anything which requires them to take account for their actions which harm the environment.
our beef sector is characterised by small-scale, environment-friendly production on permanent grassland, in an extensive manner based on the family farm model, which is a unique european social structure predominant in my constituency of ireland south as in other areas in europe.
in addition to reforms, a growth environment is crucial, which inevitably requires a revival of investment.
finally, the digital economy, transport and energy were mentioned as priority areas.
the youth guarantee has already resulted in 12 000 jobs in slovakia, mainly in smes, and most of them sustainable.
yes, we need to align skills and training with market opportunities and we need to invest in sustainable technologies, eliminate red tape, etc.
the irish government has now created a two-tier and two-speed recovery that has yet to reach those families which actually suffered most throughout the recession, and the european commission, it appears to me, is cheerleading this approach to achieve any kind of sustainable fiscal adjustment, when the sole priority should be to achieve full employment.
they want a social europe that protects public services, that invests in sustainable jobs for our young people and reinvigorates the regions and rural communities.
the commission has also been active in developing policies to promote sustainable investment.
the commission should instead launch new policies which would create jobs and promote training, research and innovation, education, reducing poverty, and the fight against climate change.
the impact of this situation on the 2014-2020 programme is far-reaching, with no laws, and the financial sustainability of the least-developed parts of society.
i just want to ask the commissioner if there are any proposals at all to promote a healthy environment and mental wellbeing at work.
— climate change represents an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore, must be addressed at international level.
the negative impact of climate-change is already visible in natural and human systems on all continents and across the oceans.
the eu negotiators attending the upcoming un climate summit in lima must do their utmost to ensure that significant progress is made towards achieving a new global climate agreement next year and avoid a 2°c rise in global temperature.
a sort of ‘paris alliance’ for a legally binding climate deal should be established in order to guarantee success.
sufficient funding must be granted for climate protection.
— we need to adapt to climate change.
we have also spoken about the need to improve diet, to make sure that there is a sustainable food supply.
at the same time, we can always improve, and certainly, where there are issues which are highlighted in this report, it is very important that we look at them and see how we can improve matters, particularly in helping these countries – third countries in particular – to do things better from the point of view of sustainable agriculture and general practices.
as well as associated cruelty and loss of national heritage, decreased biodiversity, however it occurs, has a knock-on impact on people and industries around the globe and cannot be taken too seriously.
so, economic growth that is sustainable; projects that are necessary and not vanity.
tar sands are highly polluting and it is very disappointing to see the european commission bow to oil industry pressure instead of prioritising the climate.
this means that in order to make petrol or diesel from these kind of feedstocks, it will cost more energy and therefore emit more greenhouse gases.
— i voted in favour of this resolution because i do not believe that all fuel types should have the same average emissions value and to me that is crucial.
our purpose here is to determine how the 6% reduction target in greenhouse gas emissions from fossil fuels for transport can be calculated.
for example tar sands have a carbon intensity of 20% above the level of commercial fuels, while the carbon intensity of oil sand is even higher – approximately 40% above the level of conventional fuels.
yes, i understand there are issues in regard to estonia and we should have some kind of transitional arrangement but an outcome of today’s vote could be that there now is an incentive to bring these high-emission fuels to the eu market instead of driving investments into more sustainable low-carbon alternatives.