mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier on co2 emissions from commercial vehicles is a technical and also very complicated subject on which we have worked a lot.
− madam president, as commissioner oettinger unfortunately cannot be here tonight, i would like, on behalf of the commission, to welcome the carbon capture and storage (ccs) report from parliament.
as we just heard from the rapporteur, a combination of technologies is needed to decarbonise europe, including renewable energy, greater energy efficiency and ccs.
ccs combined with renewable energy has the potential to deliver larger emissions reductions than renewable energy alone.
following the commission consultative communication on the future of ccs in europe, the role of ccs for power generation and energy-intensive industries will be addressed in the communication on the 2030 energy and climate policy framework that the commission intends to adopt next week.
they are a critical step towards ensuring the timely deployment of this technology and validating its cost-effectiveness as a climate-friendly technology.
funding under the european energy programme for recovery has already supported efforts in this direction.
furthermore, as was also recognised by parliament’s report, the importance of member states’ developing national low-carbon strategies and roadmaps – taking ccs into account where relevant – was highlighted as a possible support measure by some contributions to the ccs consultation launched last year.
as you may know, commissioner, i am often critical of certain european positions on our energy policy.
i believe that this is an important technology, one that we have been working on to achieve the objectives that europe has set itself of decarbonising our environment and our economy, and i believe that without this technology it will be even more difficult and too expensive to achieve the objectives that we have set ourselves.
so there are some points in particular - i will not repeat them, they have been made so well by mr davies - but to recognise that this technology can really enable the european union to meet its low-carbon aspirations at the lowest cost must be something we are all aware of, just as i fully agree that the diffusion of technology should not only be considered in the context of energy generation from coal and gas but also in various industrial sectors, such as those of the chemical industry, the metallurgical industry, the steel industry, cement, refining and so on.
i hope that the commission will really take up the subject also in the framework of the 2030 climate and energy framework, because that is a chapter that i find more complex and where i would like to see many sensitive points dealt with with more attention to what is the real world that we are living in at the moment.
but i think that we as european legislators absolutely need to understand how we can help develop technology in a way that will meet the carbon targets, while protecting and increasing the jobs that are the priority, and supporting our competitiveness.
they overlook certain aspects of hunting that are of fundamental importance to biodiversity: for example, the fact that responsible and sustainable hunting can help maintain the natural balance, ensuring the health and stability of wild populations, is not often mentioned.
without the contribution of all those hunters who every year practice their hunting activity in full compliance with the legislation in force, thousands and thousands of hectares of countryside and forests would no longer receive all the care that every passionate hunter is accustomed to, such as mowing and pruning, irreparably causing a loss of biodiversity and an increase in forest areas.
proper wildlife management, which in turn implies good hunting, therefore ensures the maintenance of a stable and sustainable ecosystem.
the scale of the damage to agriculture and the environment by certain species of wildlife and the consequent impact on the economic activity of agricultural undertakings is alarming in this respect.
according to a demographic survey carried out in 2013 by astraricerche for the italian national committee for hunting and nature, face italy and arcicaccia, the majority of italians are in favor of regulated, limited, responsible and sustainable hunting.
− mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr phil bennion, the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and the european parliament as a whole, for the work done on the report and the resolution on employee financial participation.
furthermore, the latest annual growth survey underlined the widespread need to strengthen the efficiency and financial sustainability of social protection systems, while also insisting on the need to enhance their effectiveness and adequacy in meeting social needs and ensuring essential social safety nets.
i spoke of the need to restore growth to our economy and to make it competitive, with sustainable jobs for young people in particular.
credibility is not just about delivering sustainable growth; it is also about restoring confidence in the european union’s financial system and regaining the trust of financial markets.
this has always been a contentious area, and multiannual plans for the sustainable management of european fish stocks and our fishing industry would represent a historic step forward.
in the field of energy, the december council endorsed two reports – on the internal energy market and on eu external energy.
it set the guidelines for completion of the internal energy market, which is scheduled to take place at the end of 2014. it is important that, for the first time, we have a separate instrument in the mff for strategic energy links.
the question is rather whether we can afford to waste the opportunity to reach a final agreement before the end of this parliamentary term.
security issues in the broader sense – from energy policy in both its internal and external dimensions, which also remains high on the agenda for the months to come, to cyber security and data protection – are at the heart of the european union’s raison d’être.
we must give consumers certain rules, and therefore create the conditions in the environment so that they can learn in time what the characteristics of what they decide to consume are.
it is an indisputable fact that under the pressure of the productive and social crisis, the budgetary difficulties and the sustainability of welfare systems, local governments have often given up on meeting the most difficult challenges of structural reform, to resort to techniques of diverting funds in response to occasional emergencies.
- in a time of deep crisis and difficulties it is unthinkable to allow waste or wrong investments.
− in the current period of economic crisis and recession, it is crucial for the european union to improve its innovation capacity in a sustainable way, through the adoption of an increasingly integrated global strategy.
− innovation and sustainability are the keywords for the european union of the future.
it is therefore of paramount importance that the union improves its innovation capacity in a sustainable way and exercises greater caution in the choice of objectives to be financed.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the commission's confirmed target of reducing co2 emissions from vehicles to 147 grams per kilometre is a valid and environmentally competitive target.
i believe that the requirements of environmental criteria must be combined with the regulatory certainty of the profitability of the investments undertaken so far.
i am convinced that ambitious environmental objectives must be measured against the feasibility of the market, especially in the light of objectives such as those on commercial vehicles which are, after all, recent and still competitive.
− we have approved mr krahmer's proposal to set a co2 emissions target for light commercial vehicles from 2020 onwards.
this is the ambitious target of 147 g co2/km, which was already set by the commission in 2011. there is no reason why this strategy should be changed, either from the environmental or the economic point of view.
- i did not intend to support the krahmer report on the reduction of co2 emissions from new commercial vehicles with my vote, as i believe that it would lead to a further increase in costs for the automotive sector, which is already suffering severely from the current economic crisis.
this is a very important regulation, but i hope that it will soon be accompanied by the final adoption of the twin regulation on co2 emissions from passenger cars, which has been the subject of much controversy and a difficult process in the eu council of ministers.
the adoption of this regulation strengthens the objective of a significant reduction in co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles by setting an initial target to be reached by 2020 (147g co2 per km) and by prefiguring subsequent targets, the feasibility of which will be decided by the european commission.
the regulation adopted today is of course a delicate compromise, and therefore one that can be improved (with more ambitious targets), but one that has the merit of confirming the european union's global leadership in the fight against climate change and contributing to the achievement of significant european-wide targets for the global reduction of co2 emissions.
it is essential to apply a global and result-oriented approach, from wldt alignment to overall environmental budget assessments.
to date, fragmentation and contradictions have characterized the approach to these problems, both between member states and at local level; the following measures have been introduced by the regions and metropolitan areas, outside any framework of reference, with paradoxical results: roadworthiness plans that exclude promising vehicles but allow for other higher emission vehicles; urban transport systems converted to electricity, environmentally sustainable, but powered by energy produced in outdated, high-impact power plants.
- i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the european union must take its responsibilities in terms of carbon dioxide emissions and must do its best to lead the world in reducing them.
by 2020, emissions will have to be reduced from the current 203 g/k to 147 g/km.
the commitment to the environment is essential: however, it should be remembered that a regulation text that is very much oriented towards environmental sustainability can be very challenging for manufacturing companies.
− the report concerns the amendment of regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to meet the 2020 target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
− as early as 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted a regulation aimed at reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
this is an ambitious goal that was only agreed in 2011: we therefore intend to confirm the technical feasibility of this, as there has been no change in environmental or economic conditions to justify a change in the level of ambition at this stage.
− i have expressed my favourable opinion on the report on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles because it is in line with the europe 2020 objectives.
the proposal for a revision of this regulation aims to reduce co2 emissions by an average of 147 g/km by 2020. the text proposes to move towards this target by following several stages in which maximum carbon emission values are already set in the production of new light commercial vehicles registered each year in the european union.
− the fight against co2 emissions, in this case from light vehicles, required some updates compared to the text introduced in 2011. i appreciate the work done in the commission by the rapporteur and therefore support the text which has come to the house today.
- the european parliament, in plenary session today, gave its favourable opinion on the report by mr krahmer on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
the draft law approved will reduce the carbon dioxide emission limit for new light commercial vehicles sold in the union from the current 203 g/km to 147 g/km by 2020. this objective, applicable to companies producing more than 1000 vehicles per year, is an incentive to produce more environmentally friendly models, with a view to a general reduction in co2 emissions in the european transport industries.
for this reason, and because of the obvious positive environmental externalities, in a context where 'green' issues are on the agenda, i thought it appropriate to express my favourable opinion of the honourable member's resolution.
− it is necessary to continue to make light commercial vehicles on the market increasingly environmentally friendly by progressively reducing their polluting emissions.
the text adopted today goes in that direction, introducing more reliable methods for monitoring co2 emissions.
- i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the commission's confirmed target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 147 grams per kilometre is a feasible and environmentally competitive target.
as regards supercredits, i believe that they are an important tool to stimulate the spread of low-co2 vehicles and therefore i believe that they should be maintained, also in the light of the fact that other forms of low-pollution power supply have a very residual spread compared to the total market volume.
− mr president, in 2011 the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which aims to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
pursuant to article 13 (1) of the regulation, the commission is required to confirm the feasibility of the long-term target of 147 g co2/km for the average emissions of new light commercial vehicles from 2020 and to define the modalities for achieving that target.
it should be stressed that the regulation in question must enable the union to meet the new challenges of consumer policy up to 2020. the commission should also be able to use the information provided by the member states to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products.
- i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe that it will be essential to spread carbon capture and storage technology in order to reduce substantially the emissions from major industrial plants, while also allowing the continued use of fossil fuels with much lower consequences on global warming.
- i do not share the position taken in the davies report on the implementation of 'carbon capture and storage technology (ccs) '.
nor can we, in discussing ambitious emission reduction targets for 2050, ignore the iea's estimates of the share of fossil fuels in the energy mix up to 2030. ccs technology is proven, economically and environmentally efficient, and simply requires a stable framework with minimal prospects to encourage its industrial deployment.
this report attempts to capture the situation and i agree with my colleagues, including the italian mrs gardini, who stressed the importance of not underestimating environmental issues even in economically unfavourable times and of seeking the resources to encourage the most virtuous behaviour.
ccs is the only tool to achieve significant reductions in co2 emissions from industrial sources while keeping costs low and production levels high; it also supports environmental protection.
this technology can significantly reduce emissions from fossil fuel power plants.
- five years ago it seemed highly desirable that the european union was destined to become the world leader in the diffusion of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology.
if global co2 emissions are to be significantly reduced by 2050 at the lowest possible cost, the spread of ccs technology will be essential.
it serves to reduce emissions from major industrial plants and may allow some continued use of fossil fuels with much less global warming.
parliament must ensure that technology is put into practice which has a key role to play in combating the threat of global warming.
it is not by chance that the labour market reforms currently under discussion emphasise these aspects as complementary to the anchoring of a future recovery in a climate of social cohesion and of productivity incentives through flexibility, defined largely at the level of supplementary bargaining.
in a european union seeking smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, encouraging the financial participation of employees means creating the basis for more lasting relationships within the company itself, ensuring its integrity and boosting its revenues and investments, in essence ensuring stability and smart growth.
− the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth stresses the need for 'inclusive growth' that, among other things, promotes citizens' empowerment through employment, investment in skills, the fight against poverty and the modernisation of labour markets and social protection.
− i believe that the financial participation of employees in the profits of a company is an essential tool of the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, involving workers in the decision-making process of the companies in which they work, helping to strengthen good governance.
it is clear that national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic climate.
− i voted in favour of this own-initiative report which assesses the data provided by member states to assess their preparedness for the new programming period 2014-2020. in view of the scarcity of national and regional resources, it is important to ensure the best use of the cohesion funds, avoiding dispersion and waste.
- in a climate of economic crisis such as that of recent years, cohesion policy plays a very important role for many european regions.
although the worst is over, the right incentives for recovery must now be given to the regions most in need, and i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the european structural and investment funds should be allocated to projects as soon as possible in early 2014. it is true that member states are at different stages of the preparation process, but for some the delay is mainly due to changes they are making to their preparations compared to the previous funding phase, in order to target them more selectively and efficiently, facilitating innovative, smart and sustainable growth.
- i voted in favour of this report because the green paper 'a european strategy on plastic waste in the environment' has launched a broad reflection on possible responses to the public policy challenges posed by plastic waste, given the widespread use of this material.
it also highlighted how better management of plastic waste is a challenge that can also be an opportunity to help achieve the goals of the roadmap to a resource efficient europe, as well as helping to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and imports of raw materials and fossil fuels.
however, the data on waste generated are not yet consolidated.
in the absence of reliable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop a targeted and effective policy, in particular as regards actions against illegal waste streams.
it is clear that the environmental impact of plastic is still underestimated.
i agree with the rapporteur that funding research and development into better recycling, collection and sorting techniques, particularly with regard to reuse and sustainability, will give impetus to the implementation of more advanced and effective waste management systems.
in my view, an important step towards regulatory harmonisation of waste streams should be the creation of specific european legislation on plastic waste, with related objectives, and the strict implementation of the current rules.
in the context of this framework, it would also be essential to raise awareness among citizens through information campaigns on the ground, aimed at promoting public awareness, such as the european day for plastic waste.
- i voted in favour of this report which takes an in-depth look at the problems and strategies for dealing virtuously with the disposal of plastic waste in the environment.
the first is the need to draw up specific and harmonised eu-wide rules on the disposal, reduction and, above all, recycling of such waste.
secondly, setting ambitious targets for recycling and recyclability of waste.
finally, a different assessment of plastics, which should no longer be regarded as 'waste to be disposed of' but as a factor of economic growth.
- i voted in favour of this resolution on an important sector, plastic waste, which represents a turnover of 300 billion a year and 1.5 million workers, which is a considerable figure for the european market.
it is important to set reasonable and achievable targets that make a realistic contribution to reducing plastic waste and thus the impact on the environment.
i agree that new targets should be set for packaging, which already accounts for 40% of waste.
it means jobs, it means savings, it means less pollution.
- the environmental impact of plastics is a problem that is still underestimated.
we are making progress in the sustainable economy and it is through my vote in favour that i intend to join my colleague in the search for better recycling techniques.
- it is undeniable that plastic, as waste, is a major problem to be tackled: we are still a long way from optimal recycling and reuse, the only way to ensure less use of landfills and incinerators.
i am of course in favour of supporting the recovery and recycling of plastics and this should also be achieved through facilities and incentives, which can also contribute to a general change in the mentality of waste management.
i am in favour of maximum waste sorting, because i believe there can be an economic advantage as well as an environmental one: however, the benefits so far have been very modest, especially compared to the initial forecasts.
we must therefore be honest and direct with the citizens, and tell them what their final economic benefit is, in addition to the environmental benefit which should concern us all.
− reducing plastic waste in the environment is one of the eu's 2020 environmental protection targets.
the existing legislation needs to be adapted to facilitate the use of new recycling methods and member states should be encouraged to raise awareness among citizens of the need for separate waste collection.
the 2020 target is to reduce plastic waste by 75%, reusing it in the best way, avoiding waste and limiting pollution.
− continue the path of gradually reducing the most dangerous plastics, by definitively banning certain types of plastic bags by 2020. the european union must act as soon as possible to make up for the lack of specific community legislation on plastic waste.
the report highlights that eu law on plastic waste must primarily aim at reducing the release of non-biodegradable plastics into the environment.
it is essential to continue investing in research, both public and private, and horizon 2020 can "provide opportunities to address this important societal need and bring considerable benefits to both the environment and citizens, from the creation of new economic activities to the reduction of marine litter and health risks".
it also notes that the correct implementation of eu waste legislation could save €72 billion a year, increase the eu's annual turnover in waste management and recycling by €42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. i share the reasoning behind the document and voted in favour, convinced that the protection and respect of the environment are ambitious objectives for europe and can in reality be translated into an opportunity for economic recovery for europe and for the competitiveness of companies which invest, with adequate strategic planning, in the prevention, reuse, recycling and recovery of waste.
- i am in favour of this report, which aims first and foremost to reduce plastic waste and promote its recycling.
in addition, this new eco-sustainable policy could create some 162 000 jobs in the eu if the recycling rate is increased to 70% by 2020. these changes will help to facilitate the transition to a sustainable economy.
however, the pollution it causes has enormous economic, environmental and health costs for member states and european citizens.
i share the focus on the need to adapt european standards to the obligations of the waste framework directive by adopting the concept of a circular economy for plastics, an action line that would help achieve the 2020 strategy targets of a 75% recycled plastic share.
i also share the idea that local authorities have the primary responsibility to run awareness campaigns to encourage a sustainable plastic waste economy, as this is the level of governance at which disposal is managed.
i hope that the adoption of this resolution will encourage the european commission to draw up as soon as possible a proposal for the establishment of a regional quality label, without forgetting the potential tourist vehicle in which this label can be invested, promoting tourism which is geared to respecting and preserving local cultures and is socially and environmentally sustainable.
it is originally intended for agriculture, and with particular reference to areas, such as mountainous areas, which are commonly referred to as 'disadvantaged'; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market.
in the area of procurement, key aspects have been clarified to stimulate the sustainability of public procurement, for example through clearer provisions for the identification and suppression of abnormally low tenders.
the s&d group is therefore calling for a new approach to the problem of the environment.
this instrument includes important clauses on social, environmental and subcontracting matters.
there is no doubt or room for interpretation in this respect: economic operators awarded a concession will have to comply with all social and environmental obligations under european legislation and collective bargaining.
it is right that companies from all over the world come to work in italy, without respect for human rights, the environment and working conditions, except with vague hints.
he would have liked to have achieved more, to have done more to protect businesses and the environment.
i am also very convinced that it was useful to have simplified the rules for cultural, social and public health contracts, and to have emphasized and stressed the principle of evaluating the most advantageous offers, not only in economic terms but with equal quality and social and environmental clauses.
the agenda includes the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2001/110/ec on honey (com (2012) 0530 - c7-0304/2012 - 2012/0260 (cod)) (a7-0440/2013).
of course, this document is also a strong signal to the next council where - i agree with mr bütikofer - we must not only talk about industrial policy linked to energy costs, the shale gas issue or climate change objectives.
there will be the climate change document, which has been in the papers for so long, a document on energy policy, another on shale gas, but there will also be a document devoted solely to industrial policy.
the same assurance was given to us by the italian presidency, so much so that the prime minister, in several speeches, insisted on the objective of 20 per cent of gross domestic product by 2020. i am glad that parliament also believes in the recovery of industry for a sustainable europe.
the rapporteur also raises the question of southern europe, calling for a multi-regional approach to boost sustainable growth in economies in contraction and those with industrial bases exposed to significant risks and high levels of unemployment, particularly youth unemployment.
the other subject which will be at the heart of the council's discussions, as well as of several initiatives which will be adopted by the commission by the end of the month, is energy efficiency, the excessive cost of energy and climate change policy.
secondly, we will meet the need of businesses to have access to energy, raw materials and other resources at affordable prices.
the danger is that such talk, which is totally out of touch with reality, could again incite the crowd and trigger a climate of civil war, as we have seen recently in the greek squares.
in conclusion, i also believe that, in view of the public policy objectives, it is right to give the grantor the choice of award criteria environmental, social or innovation criteria.
in conclusion, i believe that the proposal lays down a light, clear and broad approach which will allow for a more equitable and sustainable procurement policy.
- i voted in favour because i believe that by exploiting the full potential of public procurement in the single market, sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion can be promoted.
the proposal provides for the modernisation of the directives on the award of public contracts and the simplification of the rules, and for the identification of sound and effective procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes.
in particular, the report aims to simplify and streamline procurement procedures and reduce delays, to facilitate access to public procurement for small and medium-sized enterprises, to improve the quality of public procurement with greater regard to environmental criteria, to strengthen national instruments to combat social dumping (unusually low tenders due to violations of social rights will be excluded from procurement procedures) and to improve existing safeguards to combat possible conflicts of interest and instances of corruption.
i consider the possibility of mutual access to public procurement markets to be important for the union's new trade policy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the member states will have time to transpose the directive and will have to organise themselves as best they can, through their control systems, to ensure transparent management and the proper functioning of the procurement system, which also strengthens the grounds for exclusion for companies that will not comply with obligations towards administrations, workers and the environment.
− the public procurement market can foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion in europe, but only if the updating of public procurement legislation is able to reach the intersection between regulatory simplification and the identification of sound and effective procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability.
i agree with the rapporteur that it is possible to include environmental impact, safety requirements, in particular for the assessment of product quality, packaging, instructions for use and life cycle requirements in the technical specifications.
the rapporteur, mr tarabella, believes that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike the right balance between simplifying the rules and identifying sound and effective procedures based on innovation and sustainability-related award criteria, thus ensuring greater participation by smes and making public procurement on-line more widespread.
- i did not support the tarabella report on the reform of the current public procurement rules for public service providers in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
- i voted in favour of the proposal on the procurement procedures of public service bodies in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, because the text adopted, while simplified and revised, does not affect the ability of public administrations to choose whether and how to use the concession instrument.
as regards social aspects, these sectors have a potentially much wider impact on society and the environment and therefore merit particular attention, especially through the introduction of stricter constraints on the transparency of the externalities that contracting entities would cause in the context in which they operate.
i particularly appreciate the concept of a socially sustainable production process which ensures respect for workers' health and safety and social standards.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
bees are the alarm bell of the loss of biodiversity in our countryside: protecting them is essential for the survival of ecosystems, including human ones.
if, on the other hand, the lepage measure, which parliament adopted by an overwhelming majority, had been approved by the council, we would now have the opportunity to safeguard biodiversity and also to safeguard certain production areas free of gmo pollen.
to these two sources of waste we must add the hercule iii programme, which devotes human and financial resources to combating smuggling and other forms of fraud.
on the other hand, i believe that the commission should monitor more effectively the application of directive 2008/99/ec on the criminal protection of the environment, as in some member states there are still no effective and proportionate criminal sanctions that act as a deterrent against illegal actions.
the social investment package presented by the commission in february 2013 calls on the member states to eradicate homelessness in a sustainable way by targeting the very different causes of homelessness; implementing comprehensive, preventive, housing-led homelessness policies; and revising their practices on eviction.
studies show that shelter-based approaches are costly, and they do not lead to getting homeless people out of their situation in a sustainable manner.
the european regional development fund may, for instance, finance integrated housing interventions and energy-efficient housing renovations.
the european parliament expressed its opinion today: reindustrialising europe, through innovation, research and sustainability, boosting the competitiveness of european industry, protecting and enhancing its quality and high standards of social, health and safety protection, workers and consumers.
- i did not vote for the bütikofer report on the reindustrialisation of europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability because i find the text controversial and devoid of proposals that are really capable of re-oxygenating the european industrial sector.
- i supported the report because it envisages an industrial policy aimed at revitalising european industry through an approach combining competitiveness, innovation and sustainability and creating new jobs.
the proposal clearly underlines that europe's industrial future is linked to the rise (renaissance of industry for a sustainable europe) strategy, which aims at technological, entrepreneurial and social innovation for an industrial revolution based on innovation, modernisation and energy efficiency.
moreover, the efficient use of energy and resources is a key pillar of this strategy.
in particular, the proposal calls for an 'offensive' for innovation, efficiency and sustainable technologies, the synergistic use of other national and regional funds with eu research and innovation funds, the introduction of innovative funding routes, the completion of the digital single market, the completion of the banking union and greater willingness by banks to lend to smes.
the plan will aim to combine competitiveness, sustainability and decent jobs, putting energy and resource efficiency at the heart of industrial renewal.
the central role of industry for economic development, competitiveness and employment must be recognised and protected in all policies and initiatives at both european and national level; a top priority must remain the preservation and revival of a strong manufacturing sector, placing open markets, access to finance, innovation, availability of raw materials, energy and resource efficiency, adequate transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at the heart of an overall strategy for growth and competitiveness.
for this reason, i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the reindustrialisation of europe and i share its central message, namely that the industrial future is linked to the redefinition of a european strategy aimed at the revival of industry, starting with a review of all european policies having an impact on competitiveness, starting with energy and climate, in order to reorient them in support of the creation of conditions favourable to growth and to reformulate them in a 'pilo-industrial' way, opening up to the creation of new jobs.
european industry, which has so far been left in the background, is a useful tool in solving many of the crises facing the eu, offering enormous growth potential in terms of jobs, goods, services, tax revenues and pollution reduction.
for example, the renewable energy and resource efficiency sectors alone could create 5 million jobs by 2020. i think the report touches on a number of important points which i should like to go over.
the centrality of industry and its essential role for economic development, competitiveness and employment must therefore be adequately recognised in all policies and initiatives at both european and national level; maintaining and revitalising a strong manufacturing sector must remain a top priority, placing open markets, access to finance, innovation, availability of raw materials, energy and resource efficiency, adequate transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at the heart of an overall strategy for growth and competitiveness.
in this particular case, it is a question of granting preferential conditions to an agricultural product (in french, we literally call it 'agricultural' rum, because it is produced directly from sugar cane and not from molasses, which is the waste of sugar production, such as the so-called industrial waste).
at the moment, the picture is quite varied: the european legislation leaves it to the member states to decide, but we have a european authority to decide (the efsa) and, above all, we have divided the decision into two parts, one on environmental effects and the other on the effects of food on humans.
so it turns out that sometimes we let a man eat what we don't want the insects to eat so as not to disturb the ecosystem.
− the genetically modified maize 'pioneer 1507' should not be placed on the market for cultivation, because its altered pollen could harm the animal ecosystem in which it would be found.
this variety is also resistant to the herbicide glufosinate, which is considered toxic for reproduction in europe and therefore not authorised beyond 2017. the methods of assessing the risks of genetically modified products do not yet allow us to guarantee the safety of these products for human health and the ecosystem, particularly in the long term.
all the economic, political, social and environmental indicators tell us that kosovo is far from meeting the minimum acceptable standards for aspiring to join the union, and i would like to make this clear to everyone: in 2004, the commission, led by our former president of the council, romano prodi, wanted to force its hand to bring together 10 countries at once, more as a political choice than following logical criteria.
finally, although still at an early stage, i welcome the start of the process of privatisation of kosovo's public assets, starting with the kosovo post and telecommunications company (ptk), alongside the first improvements in the economic environment in which small and mediumsized enterprises operate.
as the report points out, effective civil, commercial and administrative justice is fundamental to the business environment.
going beyond the 20-20-20 target poses a serious challenge which will require further transformation of the energy system, continuous research and innovation and radically novel solutions.
in this context, cohesion policy is placing even further emphasis on supporting investment linked to the energy targets of the eu.
for the period 2014-2020, there will be a significant concentration of efforts on supporting the shift towards a low-carbon economy in all sectors – that is a large focus in renewable energy, energy efficiency and smart grids at the distribution level, as well as sustainable urban mobility and research and innovation in these areas.
this will lead to significantly increased amounts for cohesion policy, sustainable energy investments over 2014-2020, representing more than a doubling of the current amount.
they will enable improved energy efficiency and the integration of vast amounts of renewable energy.
in this context, the development of urban sustainable energy action plans and mobility action plans should be encouraged and supported as part of broader low-carbon and urban development strategies.
the use of financial instruments for sustainable energy investments, in particular in the urban context, will be further encouraged.
in addition to cohesion policy investment in smart grids – which we will thus focus on the distribution level – smart grids may also have access to financial support from the connecting europe facility under which an amount of almost eur 6 billion will be made available for improving the trans-european energy infrastructure for the period 2014-2020. in 2012, the commission started the process of identification of potential smart grid projects of common interest in the context of the smart grids task force.
the report mentions several challenges which must be addressed in order to achieve a smarter energy system in the eu regions, and in particular regulatory and legal challenges and challenges linked to data protection and privacy.
the roll-out of smart metering and smart grid systems indeed has regulatory implications, for both energy and telecommunications sectors, and calls for a reflection on viable market options.
the respective discussion was initiated in the 2012 internal energy market communication, and this will be a focus area for the commission in the next months.
it stresses the importance of networking between regions and smart energy systems and the importance of sharing knowledge in this area.
the commission will continue to facilitate cooperation between regions and to support the exchange of experience and good practices in the area of sustainable energy.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment protection, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the environment.
cooperation amongst them will be a key step in adapting to the changing economic environment.
its objectives are to adapt the off-line environment to evolving on-line realities, and to foster on-line opportunities for consumers and service providers.
i would also like to emphasise that citizens' petitions are a key instrument for reporting violations of union law, particularly in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
- this directive protects consumers, the environment and workers by means of a labelling system containing a list of hazardous chemicals contained in mixtures.
- the directive proposes rules to ensure greater transparency for all collective management societies and to encourage multi-territorial licensing of copyright in musical works by collective management societies, particularly in the new digital environment.
- having regard to the draft legislative resolution of parliament, the opinion of the committee on international trade, the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the opinion of the committee on culture and education, i approve the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the collective management of copyright and related rights and on the multi-territorial licensing of rights in musical works for online use in the internal market.
this positive vote encourages and facilitates the granting of multi-territorial licences for copyright in musical works by collective management societies representing authors, particularly in the new digital environment.
rules are therefore proposed to ensure better governance and greater transparency of all collective management companies; in addition, the multi-territorial licensing of copyright in musical works by collective management organisations representing authors shall be encouraged and facilitated, in particular in the new digital environment.
- the energy market in europe suffers from a lack of competitiveness, poor integration and higher prices than any other industrialised region in the world.
while it is essential that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union, it is also necessary to close structural gaps and ensure the right conditions for companies to invest and compete, through instruments guaranteeing reciprocity with third countries and through dedicated financing for large energy-intensive companies, but above all for small and medium-sized enterprises that suffer every day from increasing competitive obstacles and from the tightening of credit by the banking system.
- i voted in favour of mr vălean's report because i think the commission's proposal on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is extremely valid in that it provides a new legal basis, appropriate to the new legislative procedure and, consequently, sound for future investment projects.
the objective is to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy.
it will carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural development and prospects of the eu energy system every two years and any other specific analyses that may be necessary.
in addition, the investment in energy infrastructure needed to complete the internal energy market will be more easily identified.
- i voted in favour of mrs vălean's report because i think the commission's proposal on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is extremely valid, as it provides a new legal basis, appropriate to the new legislative procedure and, consequently, sound for future investment projects.
the objective is to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed about investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy.
it will carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural development and prospects of the eu energy system every two years and any other specific analyses that may be necessary.
in addition, the investment in energy infrastructure needed to complete the internal energy market will be more easily identified.
- i believe that it is necessary to have a precise and up-to-date picture of the energy infrastructure in the eu at all times so that we can act effectively in this area, which is why i supported the text under vote.
- i voted in favour because the regulation in question establishes a common framework for the notification to the commission of data and information on investment projects in energy infrastructure in the traditional sectors of oil, natural gas and electricity from coal and lignite, as well as in the innovative sectors of cogeneration of electricity and useful heat, the production of biofuels and renewables.
and this is particularly necessary when the subject of european legislation is a strategic area, such as investment in energy infrastructure.
the european union is progressively taking a leading role in shaping the energy choices affecting the 28 member states: the central role of parliament as a link between citizens, local authorities, industry, providers of technological infrastructure and the european institutions must be emphasised.
only in this way will it be possible to give future and substance to the european energy market, correct the limitations in the extra-eu energy supply and ensure energy stability and sustainability for the territories in the 28 member states.
- i welcome the idea of establishing a common framework for notifying the commission of data and information concerning investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, gas, electricity and biofuels sectors linked to the carbon dioxide produced by these sectors.
- whereas the proposal for a regulation aims to ensure that the commission is accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the union in order to enable it to fulfil its tasks in the field of energy and will also make it possible to identify future potential gaps between supply and demand and obstacles to investment; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations.
this instrument is necessary and complementary to the connecting europe facility to identify the need for investment in energy infrastructure in order to achieve the internal energy market.
i strongly support the emphasis on data protection and confidentiality of information, as well as the extension of the scope to coal, as an important element of the energy mix that has an impact on the union's energy policy; the reporting obligations for capacity for compressed natural gas, in addition to liquefied natural gas, both for import and export, necessary for the diversification of the union's gas supply; the reporting obligations to capacity for electricity storage facilities.
i agree with the rapporteur that the current european legislative environment calls for a revision of the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, with a view to consolidating current best practice and updating the agreement in line with the smart regulation agenda.
i believe that a well-integrated deployment of smart grids within regional energy plans will involve citizens in taking an active and responsible role in the energy and network planning of their regions and in reaping the financial and social benefits of these decisions.
this involvement will lead to citizens becoming 'prosumers', in the sense that they themselves produce, use and sell their own energy within a smart grid.
- an efficient judicial system contributes to the creation of an environment conducive to economic growth.
- whereas the report focuses exclusively on civil, commercial and administrative law, an area where the judiciary is of particular importance for economic recovery, and whereas improving the quality, independence and effectiveness of judicial systems is one of the main objectives of public policy at union and national level; i have voted in favour of this report, bearing in mind that an effective and independent judiciary contributes to a climate of confidence and stability and that predictable, timely and actionable decisions in the field of justice are an important component of an attractive commercial environment.
mr president, the future of energy infrastructure is a strategic issue for energy efficiency objectives.
i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to reaffirming the centrality of the european funds for structural investment, it affirms the principle of the full involvement of citizens in all stages of energy planning, including the implementation and transformation of existing networks.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
mr president, in a period of rising energy costs, the next structural funds must be spent on the basis of efficiency, avoiding the dispersion of european funds into short-term projects.
all regions will have to find solutions to provide a stable and secure energy supply.
with the own-initiative report on the establishment of smart grids adopted today, the european parliament is proposing a forward-looking energy strategy which includes increased renewable energy production and energy savings, as well as better use, especially locally, of locally produced energy.
mr president, smart grids exploit various energy sources, most of them renewable, and make various communities energy self-sufficient.
these networks are the future, and it is towards the future that the european union must commit itself, becoming ever more ambitious in innovation towards sustainability.
they often have higher energy costs, which help to maintain a problematic economic situation.
supporting the development of smart grids, especially in island regions such as sardinia and sicily, means promoting their energy independence, economic development and employment, and a sustainable development model that is at the heart of the european project for the coming years.
- from an environmental point of view, the need for the sustainability of our cities is increasingly emerging, an aspect that is very important in a world where resources are becoming scarcer and where cities also base their development on the availability of tourist and natural resources.
the establishment of smart energy networks is a subject of considerable importance, especially for the development of our cities, which will have to commit themselves to becoming "smart cities" or cities that use economic activities, mobility, environmental resources, interpersonal relations, housing policies and the method of administration in a "smart way".
i believe that the proposed objectives of encouraging consumer participation in energy production by supporting them with locally targeted investment, tailored to the specific needs of each region where they will be concentrated, are fundamental, and for these reasons i supported the text with my vote.
- in a time of rising energy prices, climate change and socioeconomic challenges, all eu regions should find solutions to provide a stable and secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria.
i voted in favour of the proposal because it encourages the deployment and increased use of smart grids, demonstrating that a smart grid leads to increased production of renewable energy, greater energy savings and better use of locally produced energy.
in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids bring several other benefits to local communities, notably in terms of employment.
while there are still some challenges to be met in order to achieve a smarter energy system in europe, the proposal is a further step towards a greener, more sustainable and energy independent union.
this is why it is important to highlight the success stories and, in this case, the regions and local communities that have built smart energy systems.
it is particularly significant that some of these projects manage to bring together all the aspects necessary to succeed in creating an intelligent energy system: a stable and secure energy supply, accessible to all citizens, in compliance with environmental and sustainability criteria.
- the issue of a stable and secure energy supply in a context of climate change and rising energy prices is central to the eu member states.
- all regions of the european union will soon be called upon to find solutions to provide an increasingly stable and secure energy supply, accessible to all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria.
in fact, some regions have already adopted solutions and initiatives aimed at so-called smart grids, whereby energy is generated and used close to the production site rather than being transported over long distances, and where two-way communication between the generation and consumption sides is possible.
in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids can therefore bring several other benefits to local communities, notably in terms of employment and green jobs.
for all these reasons, we voted in favour of this report which shows that a smart grid can be the cornerstone of an increasingly green and sustainable energy agenda, which includes increased production of renewable energy, energy saving and, above all, better and local use of locally produced energy, with significant benefits for all european regions.
firstly, the creation of new jobs, the construction of smart grids that are both more efficient and more environmentally sustainable.
in implementing energy systems, the report stresses the need to ensure that the privacy of all those connected to the data network is respected.
- the good use of the structural funds offered by the new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 provides for the reduction of co2 emissions through targeted investments for the use and creation of smart energy networks.
the report focuses on the creation of smart infrastructure using renewable energy sources, energy saving and electronic transport.
- whereas the renewable energy sector has withstood the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as coastal and rural areas; i voted in favour of the proposal to encourage investment and financial incentives in this area, which would provide continuous support for innovation in technology and systems, given that the smart grids covered by the report, in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, bring a number of other benefits to local communities, particularly in terms of employment and green jobs.
- the development of an energy distribution system based on 'smart grids' in all eu regions is one of the pillars for achieving the objectives set out by the european commission in its energy roadmap 2050. smart grids are the basis of a new energy production model which aims, in addition to the full integration of renewables, to actively involve the different local communities who will change their role from purchasers to energy suppliers.
in addition to ensuring security of energy supply and reducing dependence on fossil fuels, smart grids bring a number of employment and environmental benefits to local communities.
this is also demonstrated by the fact that the renewable energy sector has withstood the economic crisis and can contribute to job creation in the regions where they are most needed.
a smart grid can be the cornerstone of a sustainable energy agenda, which includes increased renewable energy production, energy saving, and efficient use of resources.
- the report by mr schroedter welcomes a change in the method of energy consumption and production in the regions and highlights the opportunities for geographical changes in the energy grid for the less-favoured regions.
the deployment of smart grids requires a stable and long-term policy framework and calls on the commission to propose ambitious binding 2030 targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy as well as for greenhouse gas emissions.
i welcome the report, which has laid the foundations for a sustainable strategy for small businesses.
in the newly acceded countries and in southern europe in particular, they contribute to the livelihoods of millions of people, to the protection of the environment, of biodiversity and to the preservation of cultural traditions and the variety of the landscape.
my continued commitment to supporting small farmers and the sustainable business model they represent for many member states is fully welcomed in the resolution.
the aim is to create a more favourable environment for the development of a dynamic single market, which will encourage investment but above all respond to the needs of european consumers and win their trust.
i therefore tabled several amendments to the final report adopted today, which have as their priority: to protect a sector of strategic importance for the union as a whole, which is facing asymmetrical and aggressive competition from the new world economic powers; to create a genuine level playing field, including in terms of social and environmental standards, for genuine reciprocity with third countries; introduction of a quality label/certification to protect european steel production; policies to encourage recovery processes for steel production waste; measures for workers through reskilling, active training and lifelong learning policies to ensure that the skills needed for the competitiveness of the sector are not scattered but protected and strengthened.
- i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry because the ecsc, the project which launched european integration, was based on the optimisation of coal and steel resources.
the steel industry in europe continues to play a key role in key sectors such as automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy.
europe is the world's second largest steel producer and boasts numerous technological and environmental excellence.
in particular, the report provides: the revitalisation of domestic demand, support for steel demand through improved access to external markets, greater symmetry in international trade rules, better market monitoring to combat illegal practices, the use of structural funds to mitigate business restructuring, measures to regulate environmental impact through the use of clean energy and measures to promote innovation in europe through the use of innovative financial instruments.
in particular, i welcome the proposals calling on the commission to find a common synergy between energy, environment and industrial policies, as well as measures to increase resource efficiency through the recycling of metal waste.
the balance of the european steel market depends to a large extent on compliance with ambitious employment and environmental standards.
firstly, because of the numerous links with other industrial sectors which are crucial for the development of the union, such as the automotive industry, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy.
finally, we consider it essential to use innovative technologies to reduce the environmental impact and the use of energy and raw materials.
in fact, in 2007 a citizen had already complained to the european parliament about the pollution alarm in taranto.
the resolution adopted by parliament on a proposal from the committee on petitions stresses the need to develop a new, modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry, combining two fundamental rights: the right to work and the right to health.
the cost of the steel industry in europe is the real problem, because we have a huge energy cost compared with our competitors abroad, who can also exploit social and environmental standards that are not strict.
- whereas, as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, the european steel industry is at the base of europe's industrial value chains, such as the automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering and renewable energy sectors, and whereas maintaining a competitive european steel production therefore makes a strategic contribution to economic growth and job creation in europe; i agree with the statement that the european coal and steel sector is of great historical importance for european integration and represents the basis of industrial added value in europe and that for these reasons the absence of an adequate industrial policy would risk causing a loss of competitiveness for european industry in the long term, due to extremely high energy costs, and i voted in favour of the proposal.
i particularly support the view that the efficient functioning of the single energy market is a necessary prerequisite for the supply of safe, sustainable and affordable energy to the steel industry.
i am also very interested in the report's focus on environmental issues, as europe must continue to play a leading role in the path towards sustainable production and the circular economy.
the european steel plan is moving in the right direction: creating synergies, strengthening integration processes, producing value through increased efficiency, reducing costs, increasing sustainability and, above all, supporting innovation.
it is a question of modernising the instruments of defence in a globalisation which must certainly be sustainable and regulated, and it is above all - i say this in reference to the remarks of a british colleague - a question of overcoming the constant shortcomings of the member states, because if we continue to renounce the leading role of the commission and the european institutions in the defence of our commercial interests, we will only end up with small egos which are ineffective.
it is certainly the essential focus of this proposal which goes in the direction that we all expected: enhancing and strengthening the tools to increase the sustainability and competitiveness of european companies.
i think instead that we must proudly reiterate what has been a constant of european policies, of which we are proud, in many debates and many discussions, and say that we must continue consistently in this model of energy change, in this model of combating climate change that goes hand in hand with support and industrial development, not against, if we are a little farsighted and if we accompany this choice with the necessary instruments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the unilateral approach that europe has been pursuing since before copenhagen, because we are faced, as mrs grossetête has rightly pointed out, with a europe which is responsible for 11 per cent of co2 emissions, so that even if we were to zero them, even if we were to zero them, we would not be able to combat climate change.
the european union, with the 2030 climate and energy package, can act with concrete measures to boost the industry by recovering the current competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis international partners.
the commission has proposed a binding european target of a 40% reduction in household emissions by 2030 compared to 2005 levels.
i think that is too ambitious a goal: at this particular moment in history, european industry is suffering and companies are already supporting some of the highest energy prices in europe.
i have repeatedly spoken out against a unilateral european objective to speed up the decarbonisation roadmap because it unfairly penalizes our companies which, in the face of a growing gap between energy prices and costs in the eu and in third economies, will have to bear the direct and indirect costs.
the union should therefore not commit itself to a binding domestic emission reduction commitment before the outcome of the agreement expected at the end of 2015 at the paris climate conference.
many technical and legal barriers have fortunately been removed, but the commercial environment creates new situations and problems which require decisive action.
the commission has also adopted a communication on the internal market, which confirms that internal market legislation is appropriate and is an essential factor in the competitiveness of european industry and in the protection of consumers and the environment.
then workers acquire dignity in the work they do and companies can compete freely without any pollution, especially those caused by the violation of rights or the improper reduction of labour costs.
if we want to have useful and sustainable immigration, we need clear rules, because we cannot accept everyone indiscriminately, as some false optimists think, because otherwise the results are disastrous, as the italian situation has amply demonstrated.
i also support the need for research and exploitation of natural resources on greenland's territory to be carried out in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria in order to protect and preserve the delicate arctic ecosystem.
at the same time, the effects of climate change could have a negative impact on its already fragile ecosystem, with consequences for natural and mineral resources.
the 2006 programming document has so far had positive effects, leading to sustainable economic growth and greater economic independence for the territory.
i believe, however, that the commission is overly focused on the exploitation of natural and mineral resources, which also requires sustainable and strict measures that respect the ecosystem.
- whereas the influence of greenland has increased considerably in recent years, mainly due to the effects that climate change is beginning to have in this area, and whereas the progressive thawing of the ice will facilitate the exploitation of its natural resources, including minerals, gas and oil, and navigation in its waters for most of the year, making a maritime corridor between europe, asia and america more sustainable, i agree with the purpose of the proposal for this report which aims at strengthening the excellent relations between the european union, on the one hand, and greenland and the kingdom of denmark, on the other.
i also agree with the emphasis on the need to take all precautions to ensure that the exploitation of greenland's natural resources is carried out in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria, in order to protect the area's delicate ecosystem.
the proposal for a council decision is based mainly on the text and results of the previous decision, covering the period 2006-2013, which included education and training, mineral resources, energy, tourism and culture, research and food security as areas of cooperation under the agreement.
- i reiterate today my firm position on cutting costs and waste in connection with the dual headquarters in brussels and strasbourg.
the estimated cost of the dual site is approximately eur 180 million with co2 emissions of between 11 000 and 19 000 tonnes per year.
i therefore welcome the position recently expressed in the afco committee: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
it is time to reconsider this waste of unexplained resources, especially in a time of crisis, by starting a process of treaty revision.
in view of the evolving and increasingly globalised economic environment, a comprehensive strategy of convergence in the application of antitrust rules is appropriate to ensure that competition law in third countries is not used to mask industrial policy objectives.
- i vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, since this type of cooperation agreement aimed at enforcing competition rules is an effective instrument for ensuring the proper functioning of the market in an increasingly globalised economic environment.
- i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because a legally binding treaty will be able to define international standards aimed at regulating the international trade in conventional arms, making it possible to curb the illegal trafficking and proliferation of arms and, at the same time, generating an environment of peace, security and international and regional stability.
an effective trade defence system close to business, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, is essential in the complex international economic environment we are living in.
this must also be the case against social or environmental dumping.
i particularly agree with and support the position contained in the amendments proposed by the inta committee, which confirm and even strengthen the cases in which it would be possible in future not to apply the lesser duty rule, adding in particular, in addition to raw materials, energy and forms of subsidy.
i also think it is right that the commission should take care to ensure the safety of seafarers by choosing the least costly and most economically efficient procedural scenario and respecting the three pillars of sustainable development.
for example, when adopting acts, the commission will have to ensure the safety of seafarers, choose the least costly and most cost-effective scenario and respect the three pillars of sustainable development.
in addition, by adopting this text we are helping to make the working environment ever healthier and safer, and we must not forget that it must be adequately protected and guaranteed.
- the need to ensure that low-energy electrical materials are placed on the market under conditions which do not compromise the safety of persons, domestic animals and goods when installed and maintained is a fundamental prerequisite for the completion of the european single market and the standardisation of consumer safety standards.
i would reiterate that the only way to build a sustainable democracy in egypt is by following the path of national reconciliation and inclusive political process.
of course, when you have constant violence, terrorist attacks, when you have loss of life, the environment is heavy and it's difficult to take the necessary steps.
let us not hide behind a finger, because it is not with a comprehensive european strategy against gender-based violence that we can combat this phenomenon, which is confined to a particular cultural environment.
the changes in the climate, for example, have led to particular situations, river flooding, flooding issues, so that some waterways could be useful as a water supply, as well as a water supply for the overall agricultural system, so we must look at the issue of waterways not only from the point of view of transport, but for an integrated system of better use of the land.
- the transition to a low-carbon economy in all sectors and investment in renewable energy requires time and money, especially at this critical time for european industry.
the 2030 climate and energy package can act with concrete measures to boost industry and recover the competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis external partners, but must first focus on realistic and sustainable targets.
we cannot make it a binding target for european industry, already suffering from high energy costs, to reduce emissions drastically by 2030 and invest in renewable energy at the same time.
there are direct and indirect costs that they cannot bear and a growing gap between energy prices and costs in the eu and in third economies.
- the european union has long been committed to diversifying its energy mix, reducing energy dependence on foreign imports and reducing the cost of energy in order to increase the competitiveness of our industries and foster a different development model.
the targets set today to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 even more than the 2020 target are fully achievable by each member state, and this house has rightly argued that these constraints are mandatory.
some countries have already reached the 2020 target, while italy, which could be the natural platform for renewable energy in the mediterranean, is still lagging behind.
- i do not agree with the approach of the report which analyses a common framework for climate and energy policies in the context of horizon 2020. the proposals contained in the text will only unfairly penalize european businesses and the economy as a whole.
reducing the high cost of energy, which has enormous repercussions for our industries and citizens, can be decisive at this stage.
and to do that, we also need to make a strong commitment to energy efficiency, which i believe is the best way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to foster new technologies, to create jobs and to transform economies to be greener.
- the main problem with the 2030 climate and energy package is that it provides neither concrete measures to boost competitiveness nor signs of medium- to long-term stability to support investment decisions.
today's proposal undermines any expectation of european companies to have a solid legislative framework for investment and innovation in europe, making it independent of energy imports.
it is pointless to go into the debate on targets, but it is important to note that even the single 40% greenhouse gas target will result in a much heavier target than the current one for the ets (43% compared to 2005 emissions).
environmental challenges must be supported, but not at the expense of a 15 to 20 per cent increase in the wholesale price of electricity, which further widenes the gap with us industry, which already pays over 50 per cent less for energy than european industry.
moreover, the application to member states alone implies further, heavy efforts to reduce emissions by industry, in the face of the indifference of other countries.
firstly, because it does not hide behind a false moralism and recognises the historical responsibility of the eu and other countries responsible for gas emissions.
we must not forget, however, that the time available for action is rapidly shortening and that measures to protect the environment are now of paramount importance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its energy needs.
the carbon footprint of transport must be reduced, but we must not forget that biofuels do not yet meet the expectations in terms of significant emission reductions.
- we must not waste any more time and ensure that the taxpayer is not the first to come to the rescue of the banks in difficulty: the decision-making process for the winding-up of a bank is too complex and politicized.
- i did not intend to support with my vote the resolution that analyses the greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020.
in writing.
- i am voting against this text because i do not think the commission's proposal is ambitious enough, especially when compared with the great achievements made so far in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment-related aspects of the environment.
despite the climate of tension and instability in the country, i welcome the fact that the new egyptian constitution mentions a civilian government, absolute freedom of belief and equality for all citizens, the guarantee of children's rights, the prohibition of torture and slavery, the commitment to respect international human rights treaties to which egypt is a party.
the general climate of instability and uncertainty is still evident, due to a lack of agreement between the various political parties.
i believe that parliament should encourage the country to remove any obstacles to its future in the eu and to take concrete decisions in areas where effective policies are still lacking, including climate and environment, the fight against organised crime and immigration.
on the other hand, i believe that the political forces must converge more towards sustainable dialogue and constructive cooperation to improve the electoral system, reform the public administration, reduce political influence on the judicial system, eradicate corruption in education, health, construction, procurement, administration and land planning.
implementing naiades ii reflects the eu's commitment to provide appropriate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable freight services within the framework of existing eu programmes.
consumption and co2 emissions are directly linked and this relationship needs to be improved.
for this reason, i hope that the european commission will keep its commitment in this regulation to adopt, by 2017, the new global test cycle, which will reproduce real driving conditions by including new technologies in the calculation of emissions.
the commission has identified some of these sectors, namely services, energy, transport and the digital single market, as core areas for the internal market.
it leaves us with weak growth, and above all with little quality, sustainability and long-term character.
now that the economic recovery is gaining ground we need to focus on strengthening its foundations and boosting sustainable growth and job creation.
only then can we ensure that europe moves effectively from modest recovery to strong and sustainable growth and job creation.
that means we need to unleash our growth and jobs potential by improving the lending conditions of smes, which are the backbone of job creation in europe; by completing the single market, especially in services and in the digital economy; and by investing in sustainable green growth and turning innovations in that field into competitive products and services – that is, into new businesses and new jobs for europeans; and also by tackling the problem of youth unemployment and poverty, which is a key priority of the commission.
in order to tackle poverty in old age, we launched a white paper two years ago, and at another conference in brussels at the end of march, together with vice-president rehn and michel barnier, we will look into the implementation of measures such as pension reforms, as well as other measures like the portability of occupational pensions, which will need to ensure that pensions in europe are sustainable and adequate in the long run.
in view of the report of the committee on legal affairs and the opinions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, the committee on international trade, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism, i have voted in favour of the proposal.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am voting in favour of mr ulmer's report on how to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions from new cars.
the community's average target of 95 grams of co2 by 2020 is significant and is a step in the right direction towards a gradual but steady reduction in the overall emissions of the european union and the decarbonisation of our economy, while allowing industry a reasonable time to make the necessary adjustments.
- the proposal which we as the ppe group have approved is intended to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and ecologically viable.
however, manufacturers will only be able to claim supercredits if they do not exceed their specific emissions targets by more than 15% for a given calendar year.
morgan stanley) predict a share of electric vehicles with a high range of around 5% by 2020. so the business-friendly approach pays off, by also guiding consumption along lines of environmental awareness.
in 2020 the emission limits set today could be exceeded by a more general discussion of energy budget, mobility management, new modes of mass public transport.
- i believe that setting a target of reducing co2 emissions from new cars by 2020 is an essential prerogative for the eu.
i voted in favour of the proposal, considering that, secondly, the union will be less dependent on oil, and that this will be due to the increasing efficiency and sustainability of cars, which will make the dependence on 'black gold' less and less.
this target can only be achieved if the assessments of actual emissions are as uniform as possible: i fully agree with the rapporteur that a new test cycle should be developed quickly, which clearly and adequately reflects the real emissions of passenger cars and which excludes divergent interpretations and any differences between member states.
- the report concerns the amendment of regulation (ec) no 443/2009 by laying down the modalities for achieving the target of 90 g co2/km by 2020; the aim is to reduce co2 emissions from new cars.
- the european union has already shown a strong commitment to the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions and has recently expressed its intention to step up its efforts towards an ecological policy.
the eu intends to use initiatives that provide for car manufacturers to install modern drive systems in new passenger cars, further reducing emissions.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that there must be more and more and more consistent efforts to pursue a green policy that protects the health of citizens and the environment.
- recent statistics show that co2 emissions from the road transport sector account for one fifth of the total co2 emissions in the european union.
the worrying fact is that further increases in emissions levels are expected in the coming years.
to reverse this trend, the european union has set itself the goal of transitioning to a sustainable and resource-efficient economy.
the amendment to regulation (ec) no 443/2009 will result in stricter limits on co2 emissions from new passenger cars in the eu and incentives for low-emission vehicles.
in the belief that these issues can be tackled more effectively at european level, i believe that the actions undertaken will help to increase the efficiency and sustainability of the automotive sector, reduce dependence on non-renewable energy sources and reduce the impact on the environment.
- in line with the europe 2020 objectives, the reduction of co2 emissions from newly produced cars is a proposal for a regulation which i am in full support of.
- the proposal under consideration is intended to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and environmentally viable.
given that it is appropriate to encourage manufacturers of new passenger cars and their suppliers to certify and incorporate into new vehicles technologies or technology packages (eco-innovations) designed to further reduce fuel consumption and the associated co2 emissions, and that there are as yet no recognised eco-innovations, as the testing procedure is too long and excessively burdensome, i have decided to vote in favour of the proposal.
- the european parliament today approved in plenary the report by mr ulmer on the new rules for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
- the path towards the gradual reduction of co2 emissions from new vehicles must continue smoothly in order to achieve the environmental and economic objectives envisaged.
- the carbon dioxide emission limits for new cars are quite ambitious, but they represent an important goal to be achieved, yet in some ways unrealistic.
at the same time, however, the economic and productive sustainability of manufacturers must be guaranteed.
- mr ulmer's report aims to achieve, through the use of modern drive systems, a further reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles which is not only substantial but also economically and environmentally viable.
for these reasons, it will be important to aim for low co2 emissions while ensuring the survival of a wide range of manufacturers in order to preserve conditions of fair competition among manufacturers of new passenger cars.
i also support the rapporteur's proposal to combat food waste along the whole food chain, which amounts to about 190 kg per year per european citizen.
although the use of biocides is intended to ensure human well-being and the preservation of many products, the chemicals they contain can have harmful effects on the environment and human health.
the aim is therefore to harmonise national provisions on biocides while maintaining a high level of protection for human and animal health and safeguarding the environment.
- the biocidal products regulation has been an important and substantial revision of existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules on their making available on the market and use, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
while some substantial improvements have been noted, member states need to ensure that they are moving within the eu's economic governance and that they are making greater efforts to foster sustainable growth and create more jobs in both the medium and long term.
the commission, following the guidelines also set out by the ecb, has a crucial role to play in recommending to the member states the procedural arrangements for implementing the structural reforms needed to restart national economies in a balanced and sustainable way, generate employment and increase the eu's competitiveness and economic stability.
finally, the suggestion of shifting taxation quotas from individuals and labour to consumption is welcome, in order to promote a culture of fiscal responsibility and to discourage governments from dumping waste and unjustified spending on general taxation.
- i voted in favour because with the epp we have succeeded in achieving a balanced report, supporting important structural reforms as well as sustainable budgetary policies.
the report on economic policy coordination encourages the adoption of structural reform programmes that promote convergence and competitiveness and that increase sustainable growth and employment, including through increased investment in research and education, innovation and development, at national and european level.
despite encouraging signs in all the areas mentioned, such as the reduction of the deficit in the eu, the easing of financial market tensions and signs of improved competitiveness in some member states, the importance of continuing reform action is emphasised, in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth and the revival of employment.
in addition, considering the need for growth-friendly fiscal consolidation and that current efforts must be sustained in order to ensure compliance with the current economic governance framework on the one hand and more sustainable growth and more jobs on the other in the medium and long term, i voted in favour of the proposal.
- considering that the recession in the euro area has stopped, but that annual growth will remain weak and that unemployment is still at a very high level, i have chosen to support this report because its aim is to foster sustainable growth capable of giving the necessary impetus to a lasting recovery and to overcoming the union's socioeconomic challenges.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
finally, it welcomes the recognition in the 2014 annual growth survey of the need to address the social consequences of the crisis and ensure the financial sustainability of social protection.
the importance of continuing reform efforts should be emphasised in order to create the conditions for sustainable growth and the revival of employment.
unemployment is still very high and sustainable growth needs to be significantly improved if we are to have a lasting recovery that provides the momentum needed to alleviate the union's socioeconomic challenges.
given that the social and economic priorities agreed in the europe 2020 strategy are deeply interlinked and that economic sustainability and macroeconomic balance cannot be achieved in the medium and long term without strengthening and safeguarding the social dimension of emu, i voted in favour of the proposal.
the social and economic priorities agreed in the europe 2020 strategy are deeply interlinked and i believe that economic sustainability and macroeconomic balance cannot be achieved without strengthening and safeguarding the social dimension of emu.
- the future challenges of food supply and climate change require the development of an effective and competitive plant breeding sector capable of protecting and preserving biological and genetic diversity in europe.
it is essential that the eu plays a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and in promoting research and practice in the fields of agriculture and plant breeding.
the report highlights the challenges we will face in the coming years, linked to the growth of the world population, major climate change, the growth of the food supply and the exploitation of agricultural land.
finally, i agree with the rapporteur that the eu must play a leading role in developing sustainable plant breeding techniques and in promoting research and practice in the fields of agriculture and plant breeding.
this sector is of fundamental importance for productivity, diversity, health and quality in agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and for the environment.
increased investment in research should be encouraged immediately in order to meet future food needs and to address climate change.
in particular, consideration is given to ways of increasing yields to feed the growing population with the same amount of agricultural land, with better management of key resources such as water and energy.
it is not even conceivable today that there can be economic sustainability by extending this kind of skills to everyone.
there are no examples in the world to justify this kind of theory, because the interconnection between network and management is a very complex interconnection, which is not comparable with other systems of public services, such as gas, water or energy in general.
the issue was how all the supporting environment could and must be created: hospitals, emergency centres, which language, how it would be received, who would receive it.
the vote will take place on wednesday 26 february 2014.
the agenda includes the report by ms françoise grossetête, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of the 'health for growth' programme, the third multiannual programme of the eu action in the field of health for the period 2014-2020 ((com (2011) 0709 c7-0399/2011 2011/0339 cod)) (a7-0224/2012).
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
- i voted in favour of this report, because with this text we stressed the importance of concentrating eu public funding in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment, education, research, innovation and sustainable transport.
through these funds, the union will be able to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, such as increasing growth and employment, combating climate change, reducing energy dependence on third countries or strengthening the welfare state.
- cohesion policy must continue to be an effective mechanism for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
cohesion policy should play a key role in the context of the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, focusing on investment at local and regional level in important areas such as job creation, smes, employment (in particular youth employment), labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, ict, sustainable transport, sustainable energy, the environment, the promotion of institutional capacity of public bodies and efficient public administration, urban development and cities.
i believe that investment in the ors should explore new ground and enable the sustainable development of these regions by integrating them more closely into a european framework.
the octs represent a crucial challenge for the future of the eu because they reflect the role it wants to play in the world in the areas of climate change, biodiversity, the protection of regional languages, the environment, etc.
there are many success stories in these regions in areas such as the green economy and sustainable development, neighbourhood policy, specialisation in niche industries or the growth of genuine economic hubs, and not just in the tourism sector.
- the european union must see the optimisation of the potential of the outermost regions and their integration into european programmes as a medium-term objective to be achieved by 2020. these territories should be seen as a potential 'basin' which the union should exploit in terms of tourism, biodiversity, research and innovation.
the proper management of union funds and the avoidance of waste are priorities.
moreover, the focus on the use of public resources is such that there is little room for waste.
in particular, i support the importance of the agreement in strengthening the link between the member states and the republics involved, so that initiatives can be launched to promote sustainable development, regional integration, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy and good governance.
in particular, i welcome the objective of consolidating the political dialogue and the economic cooperation process launched in the framework of the 1984 san josé dialogue, renewed in florence in 1996 and in madrid in 2002, support for the promotion of sustainable development between the regions, including civil society and the private sector, and the pursuit of greater cooperation on immigration, regional integration, poverty reduction, sustainable development and security in the central american region.
the text of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement is designed to consolidate the political dialogue and economic cooperation process with central america, to strengthen the cooperation programme governed by the framework cooperation agreement between the european economic community and the republics concerned, and to promote sustainable development in both regions through a development partnership involving all the parties concerned.
the europe 2020 strategy will finally enable the economic system to be steered towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, with a high level of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in view of the geostrategic difficulties of madeira and the azores (as outermost regions) in terms of the low level of automation of farms, the transport of raw materials and packaging not produced locally, and the costs of labour, energy and installation of ad hoc equipment for the production of rum, liqueurs and spirits, i consider it reasonable and justified to extend the period of application of decision 2009/831/ec by six months.
the share of rail transport in the road transport sector needs to be increased to reduce pollution and road traffic.
finally, the role of the competent authorities will be essential in defining the objectives and in developing specific criteria with regard to the quality standards to be included in the calls for tenders, giving greater prominence to the concept of sustainability.
greater efforts will have to be made towards sustainable transport, which will not only have a positive impact on the environment but will also have a positive impact on the growth and employment of the areas concerned.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its obligations under the treaty.
at the same time, it will also be possible to reduce co2 emissions by 2050 and increase the growth potential of a sector in which european producers are world leaders.
i therefore welcome the report because, at its core, it should set in motion processes of harmonisation of operating, safety and entry standards in a climate of collaboration with the national authorities, through the european railway agency.
improving safety means making an effort to avoid accidents which, in addition to causing serious human losses, involve enormous economic damage and environmental impact.
- although rail transport is the safest mode of transport in the european union and rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences for human life, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as a safer mode of transport.
- i agree with the rapporteur in postponing the decision on repeal and asking the commission, after a more thorough analysis, to amend the existing regulation and adapt it to the current legal framework, as before deciding to repeal the regulation it is necessary to assess the impact of the provisions of the new directive 2012/34/eu on the railway sector which entered into force in november 2012. it would be premature to repeal the regulation directly, as in the current economic climate it may be necessary to maintain the possibility of providing for compensation to the railway sector for certain payments which are mandatory under national law and which in other modes of transport do not need to be supported.
it is of great importance to support member states' efforts to improve the sustainability of national health systems by leveraging other available skills and by leveraging the exchange of good practice.
- the health for growth programme will be used to achieve some of the objectives of the 2020 strategy, such as health innovation and sustainability, improving the health of european citizens and protecting them from cross-border threats.
in order to promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, support the development of a digital single market, contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and improve economic competitiveness, it is now more necessary than ever to identify projects of common interest to deploy broadband and digital service-related infrastructure in the eu.
furthermore, an increased use of ict technologies in relation to the sustainability of welfare and service administration systems, from e-medicine to online shopping, to an ageing and limited mobility population, should be considered to be in the public interest.
the regulation identifies projects of common interest for the deployment of broadband networks and digital service infrastructures, which aim to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, promote the interconnection and interoperability of national networks, support the development of a digital single market, and contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the protection of the environment.
- although sound fiscal policies are the essential foundation for controlling the level of indebtedness in european countries, i support the need to embark on a path of sustainable growth aimed at boosting competitiveness and employment.
in this context of continuous calls for cuts and sacrifices, the forward-looking politician must ask questions, including: given the limited resources available and the emergency situation, how can i balance the need to trigger recovery in the shortest possible time with the need for long-term investment to make this recovery lasting and sustainable?
while sound fiscal policies are an essential foundation, europe needs to embark on a path of sustainable growth that strengthens its competitiveness vis-à-vis other areas of the world and ensures the creation of new jobs.
social responsibility needs to be clearly defined so that transnational corporations operating in developing countries, working with local governments, can contribute to the creation of a system that guarantees environmental, economic and social rights in the countries in which they operate.
in the mining sector, i hope that all the necessary reforms will be made to ensure that mining is sustainable, does not harm workers' rights, and does not harm the environment, and that the logic of the voluntary approach is overcome by the use of guiding principles on business and human rights.
i think that caring for arctic sustainability is an extremely important issue and we should not underestimate any aspect of this, whether climate change or anything else.
i bring you the testimony of my country, italy, one of the most mediterranean countries, with a temperate climate and sunshine for many months of the year.
i think it is appropriate to understand that, in the face of the climate change that is taking place, the union must act more promptly.
the aim is to provide a solution that ensures a sustainable balance between the two parties, so that it is clear and predictable to consumers what they are required to pay or return.
the positive cooperation between the agriculture and environment committees has fortunately corrected this aspect, which had no reason to exist, especially since we cannot guarantee our fellow citizens the same health checks on tobacco imported from many third countries as we do on what is produced in europe.
the work carried out is the result of a careful assessment of the various interests involved, all of which deserve protection: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
solvit is an online network for the informal settlement of cross-border disputes relating to the incorrect or inaccurate application of the single market rules, through which citizens have the opportunity to have their problems resolved and to receive advice on various issues relating mainly to the exercise of rights and the operation of procedures in other member states, in particular relating to: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the development of the european union's environmental policy.
at the same time, i believe that the union's efforts to improve the sustainable management of the world's forests and to halt deforestation and forest degradation will be given a boost by the signing of this agreement.
- the use of armed drones in the hottest parts of the world has increased in the last ten years; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
in this resolution parliament calls on the venezuelan government to ensure that a climate of peace and solidarity is maintained in the country and that fundamental human rights are respected.
despite the socioeconomic importance of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, there is little dispute about the respect of equal conditions of access to employment in the sector, non-discrimination on grounds of gender and the recognition of the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries.
the scant and sometimes missing statistics show us that 100 000 women are currently employed in the fisheries sector, but it was only in 2010 when the hearing on 'women and sustainable development in the fisheries sector' was held that the real conditions of hardship faced by women in the sector were revealed and the need to promote greater participation and better protection of women was therefore evident, so i voted in favour of this measure.
women are also important for the sustainable development of those european regions that depend on fisheries.
it is necessary to bring working conditions on a par with those of men and finally to recognise the contribution of women to the sustainable development of fisheries, as they are among those most affected by the employment crisis.
- women's work in fishing and related activities is carried out in most cases invisibly, complementing the work of their partners, in an increasingly difficult economic environment, especially for family businesses.
the purpose of collecting such data is to make inland waterway transport increasingly efficient, seeing in it a very high potential also in terms of environmental protection, and to implement actions aimed at achieving the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy, therefore it is appropriate to make the collection of some of the most relevant data mandatory and no longer only optional.
i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that inland waterway transport plays an important role, not only for freight but also for passenger transport, and that the renewal or adaptation of the fleet would bring environmental benefits.
the priority now is to improve the infrastructure of the sector, in full compliance with environmental standards and to boost employment in the whole sector.
- the loss of biodiversity is a current and alarming problem.
this protocol, on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use, will reverse the global trend towards biodiversity loss and will enable biodiversity to be conserved and used sustainably.
- the nagoya protocol, together with the world strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020 and the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes), provides the regulatory basis for ensuring access to energy resources, the fair sharing of the benefits arising from their use and the fulfilment of the obligations undertaken.
the aim of the nagoya protocol is to safeguard ecosystems and biodiversity by mobilising all the necessary resources, in this case financial resources.
the report is a good example of the need to protect endangered species and the environment, which are too often compromised by human and social misconduct.
by encouraging fair sharing of benefits and focusing on legal certainty and transparency, the nagoya protocol also aims to advance research on genetic resources in order to promote their responsible and sustainable use, while creating a fertile ground for human development and well-being.
preserving biodiversity and using it sustainably are objectives that i share and support with my vote in favour of the
in writing.
- biodiversity is a resource and must be protected; however, the data paint an alarming picture: 60% of ecosystems have deteriorated in the last 50 years.
such a development in the future would cause irreversible damage to the environment as well as economic and social consequences.
biodiversity plays an essential role in many areas: the commission has also been active in the fields of scientific, technological, food, health and cosmetic research, to name just a few.
conservation of the ecosystem is therefore an economic necessity as well as an ethical or moral duty.
- compliance with the nagoya protocol will enable all the acceding countries to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
- the nagoya protocol can play a particularly important role in achieving a fair sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources in order to enable the conservation of biodiversity and its sustainable use.
the european union undoubtedly has a key role to play in the utilisation of genetic resources, so sustainable access to genetic resources is essential and needs to be strengthened by increased trust between international partners and a clear legislative framework.
- the importance of improving the employment prospects of all workers through appropriate training and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during the worker's professional career; it is expected that the training provided under the coordinated package will be adapted not only to the needs of the dismissed workers but also to the actual business environment.
we regret that parliament has not had time to introduce into european legislation the inalienable rights of farmers to use and trade their seeds freely and to have access to the market for all agricultural biodiversity and not just seeds that comply with intellectual property rules.
we must respond to the needs of the industry by passing legislation that brings real improvements for all producers, consumers and the environment.
- i think it is necessary to emphasise that eu legislation on plant reproductive material must facilitate and encourage the conservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
the committee on the environment and the committee on agriculture also rejected the text, rightly supporting some of the main points.
i am voting in favour of this revision because i believe it is necessary to strengthen the internal market, to make financial transfers more transparent in an increasingly complex financial environment, to support the fight against terrorism and organised crime and to strengthen the eu's financial system.
- i supported the report on genetic resources because i am aware of the scale of the phenomenon of biodiversity loss.
this is not a position dictated solely by ethical and/or moral convictions, but rather by the desire to reduce the impact of biodiversity loss in economic and social terms.
preserving biodiversity therefore becomes a shared mission to safeguard europe's socioeconomic dynamism by directly benefiting from the use of genetic resources.
this report, together with the report on the nagoya protocol, forms part of the international strategy for the conservation of biodiversity.
this allocation mechanism will allow for the protection of the environment, social progress and the sustainable use of in situ resources.
i welcome the rapporteur's proposals on the chain of use of energy resources and the associated traditional knowledge, as well as on strengthening transparency and legal certainty.
- i am wary of any economic evaluation of biodiversity as a tool for political discussion and note that this approach has been the focus of a heated debate for years, not limited to academic circles.
i prefer to focus on the clear implications of protecting biodiversity as the foundation of a future that can be built on the christian and liberal values of intelligent stewardship of natural resources.
the nagoya protocol clearly links benefit-sharing with a vision of sustainability and biodiversity conservation.
i therefore believe that, in a context where the loss of biodiversity continues to worsen and accelerate, it is right to vote in favour of this commission regulation and to approve the amendments proposed by the rapporteur.
i also believe that the desire to strengthen international equity and the confidence of third countries suppliers is something that can be shared and that this can contribute to the preservation of the environment, social progress and a sustainable use of resources.
- the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to ensure that biodiversity, its peoples and their knowledge are preserved and that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are distributed in a fair and equitable manner.
i also welcome the rapporteur's proposal to create a union fund for benefit sharing, funded by the users of genetic resources with a view to preserving the world's biodiversity, which could contribute to a multilateral worldwide benefit sharing mechanism, as provided for in article 10 of the nagoya protocol.
in other words, the regulation of vehicle inspections should be periodically reviewed as a tool linked to the general objectives of reducing emissions and protecting the health and safety of citizens, without unduly emphasising the benefits and in accordance with the principle of proportionality, especially as vehicles are often the capital goods of smes or are modes of urban transport with no viable alternative for consumers.
i have chosen to support the proposal because it provides for new rules on roadworthiness tests, with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
- considering that the existing eu rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles (directive 2009/40/ec) apply to passenger cars, buses, heavy goods vehicles and their trailers, but not to mopeds or motorcycles, the commission has presented new rules on periodic roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles and their trailers and the repeal of directive 2009/04/ec, with the aim of improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection, i voted in favour of the proposal.
- today's vote lays a solid foundation for a shared legal framework which will allow for better technical controls, which can significantly increase road safety, while ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
- the commission has presented new rules on roadworthiness tests with the aim of further improving road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection.
it is therefore a priority to apply more uniform and stringent rules in order to improve road safety and environmental protection.
- i vote in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure greater safety and compliance with environmental standards by providing for increased cooperation between member states in the exchange and mutual recognition of registrations and periodic roadworthiness tests of motor vehicles.
- the measures approved today will make it easier to maintain and enforce the rules on roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles, improving road safety and environmental protection.
- the aim of this package is to support the standards for roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles, with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection.
- the objective of the so-called 'technical inspection' package is to support and enforce the rules on the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and environmental protection.
the benefits in terms of monetary savings - estimated to save the eu some €2 billion a year - and environmental benefits are all too obvious.
i also support the amendment on the single cmo, which aims to ensure that imported products comply with the minimum european standards of quality and the environment.
we also note the importance of the increase in eib lending in the areas of infrastructure, resource efficiency and the knowledge economy, and hope that the full potential of the recent capital increase of eur 10 billion will provide better support for new lending for growth and jobs in sustainable sectors, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises.
unfortunately, a lack of viable and sustainable projects eligible for eib financing has been identified in several european countries, and we therefore invite the eib to reassess its policy on the use of own funds in operations, to look for project opportunities more proactively, and thus to increase its financing activities, with particular attention to programme countries.
with the establishment of the european supervisory authorities, the eu ensured a more stable and secure financial market environment, preventing the fragmentation of the union's financial markets.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the ilva case, the 'waste emergencies' in campania and lazio, the protection and rights of disabled people at work, the rcauto tariff case and the protection of the rights of minors have often only been able to gain national attention after they had reached the european parliament.
combating unfair trading practices; encouraging producer organisations in the sector which play a key role in strengthening bargaining power; promoting the sector through innovation, research, adaptation and mitigation of the climate change impacts; encouraging the consumption of fruit and vegetables; the eu school fruit programme; improving farming methods; to encourage apprenticeships for young people in the agricultural sector.
this should make us reflect on the enormous potential of the sector and the need for the european union to develop legislation that enables the sector to meet the challenges of adapting to the effects of climate change and the increasing food needs of a growing global population, while reducing its impact on the environment.
- the development of the horticultural sector, given the vast number of players involved and the weight it has not only in the economic sector but also in the environmental, social and health sectors, represents a very wide and complex field of intervention, involving european and national authorities without essentially neglecting the needs of the po and individual producers.
- given that the horticultural sector accounts for 18% of the total value of eu agricultural production and uses just 3% of the union's cultivated land, it faces numerous challenges, from adapting to the effects of climate change, to meeting the food needs of a growing global population while reducing its impact on the environment.
as farmers operate in an environment of declining profitability and increasing agricultural production costs, and as consumers increasingly seek safe and quality products, the supply chain in the fresh produce sector is shortening, reducing the number of retailers, also due to a lack of trust between the different actors.
mr mcintryre's own-initiative report focuses on the need to promote local production, the specific challenges of climate change and water use, and the need to keep the horticultural sector competitive within the european union.
the climate of mistrust also linked to the datagate affair required a clear legislative framework, which would really protect citizens in relation to concrete issues, citizens, families and businesses.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the results would be immediate, lowering ticket costs, enhancing safety, reducing the fragmentation of air traffic control, reducing fuel consumption and therefore less pollution, fewer delays on airplanes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked on this very technical report and congratulate them on the agreement reached with the council, which has not only managed to combine environmental requirements with industrial requirements, but has also avoided any new burdens for small and mediumsized enterprises by safeguarding the current certification system.
although fluoride cases have a global warming potential 100 to 1000 times greater than co2, there are currently no safe and efficient alternatives for their immediate replacement.
the timetable proposed by the european commission for their phasing out will not reduce emissions, but will give our companies and the research community time to find new solutions that are environmentally friendly without undermining the competitiveness of the industrial system.
there is probably someone in brussels who defends the interests of banks, of multinationals, who talks about energy saving, who talks about business recovery, when we are not even able to defend our own companies.
- the importance of the pericles project for european integration and security policies cannot be underestimated: the commission is also proposing to develop a new approach to the problem of the environment.
the pericles programme 2014-2020 takes into account all transnational aspects of the fight against counterfeiting, promotes best practices, combats counterfeiting and fraud, thereby improving the competitiveness of the european economy and ensuring the sustainability of public finances.
i therefore welcome the following report on the humanitarian commitment of non-state military actors to the protection of children, bearing in mind that armed conflict has a devastating impact on the physical and mental development of children, with long-term consequences for human security and sustainable development.
without an integrated and efficient airspace management system, there is a risk that europe's skies will become saturated to the detriment of safety and environmental sustainability.
the single european sky project envisages the gradual elimination of national air borders through the implementation of 9 regional airspace blocks, which will make the traffic in our skies more efficient, competitive, safe and less dangerous for the environment.
the regulation we are approving today will, on the other hand, allow us to create shorter routes, reducing fuel consumption and minimising the environmental impact of air transport.
the european airspace is currently based on national borders, there are 28 national air traffic control authorities managing some 60 air traffic control bodies divided into 650 sectors, this proposal aims to eliminate national borders and reduce the 28 authorities to 9 on a regional basis, with clear improvements in safety and costs as well as more efficient route management ensuring less pollution and benefits for passengers in terms of time and money.
- the commission will be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the single european sky.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
after a long negotiation process initiated in the envi parliamentary committee, of which i am a full member, i am pleased that this agreement has been reached, which allows for the alternative technologies available to the various sectors to be taken into account, the economic sustainability of the technologies themselves, and the timing of adaptation to new standards, all the while maintaining the objective of keeping these sectors competitive on the international market.
- the eickhout report on fluorinated gases and the greenhouse effect is acceptable.
- the european union, following the montreal protocol, set the ambitious but necessary target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
the progressive reduction of chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs) has been a major step forward in this respect, but environmental legislation must always keep pace with the times and with technological and scientific progress in order to steer human behaviour towards a more sustainable lifestyle.
the commission proposal represents a major step towards replacing the currently widely used high global warming potential (hfc) (pfc) (sf6) substances with new, less climate-damaging systems, but it does not take account of some very important factors, which is why i am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the envi committee.
the new proposal takes greater account of the cost-effectiveness of such levies, creates a clearer and more feasible agenda, does not ignore the risks of existing schemes and finally proposes the concept of an emission allowance use tax that compensates for the higher costs of more sustainable alternatives, thus encouraging their development and marketing.
last but not least, i believe that the problem of by-products, as highlighted in the report, is a focal point, which, if not fully addressed, risks undermining the european union's efforts to achieve its environmental policy objectives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on environmental impact assessment has been in force since 1992 and is a good directive, which has undergone many positive changes, but it is now time to update it again, above all it is important to strengthen the right of citizens to compulsory consultation as a guarantee of participation and transparency, especially when works are carried out which have a strong environmental impact on the territory and on the rights of citizens themselves: the right to health, the right to live in a healthy environment, the right to territorial protection and the protection of soil.
- i am voting in favour of the agreement reached on the revision of the environmental impact assessment directive which is being finally adopted by the european parliament today.
the text also introduces stricter clauses on the assessment of projects with significant environmental impacts.
i am particularly concerned about the provision for greater coordination and the establishment of common procedures for projects requiring an impact assessment also on the basis of other directives such as the habitats directive, the birds directive, the water framework directive and the industrial emissions directive.
greater coordination which can make the global and preventive assessment of projects with a significant impact on nature and biodiversity more effective.
- the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive sets out and harmonises at european level the conditions for the design and construction of industrial plants and infrastructure in various sectors in compliance with strict environmental criteria.
it therefore affects a wide range of industrial sectors (energy, transport, construction, waste disposal, agriculture).
- mr president, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation by my colleague mr prodi because i believe that the copernicus programme is of crucial importance for the european union, since its main objective is to provide information and data from space observations which contribute to the protection of the environment by controlling climate change, to civil protection, to security and also to economic growth.
improving this system should bring a number of benefits to european citizens, notably through increased monitoring of environmental and climate change issues.
the main objective is to bring benefits to european citizens in a number of areas, in particular in the context of action for the environment and against climate change, while maintaining the civil dimension of the programme.
- the copernicus programme is an important tool for the collection of environmental standards, useful both in the private and public sectors.
the aim is to provide a platform for environmental legislation in the states.
- the result of the vote here in strasbourg does not surprise me, because the text was also adopted by a large majority in the committee on industry and energy (50 votes in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions).
the approval of the new financial framework 2014-2020 will enable copernicus to provide a range of services such as land, sea, atmosphere and climate monitoring in support of european action (policies) for the environment and climate change.
copernicus will be able to stimulate european industry, services to citizens, environmental monitoring and the fight against climate change, as well as ensuring greater security for all european citizens.
the main objective is to bring benefits to european citizens in various fields, in particular in the context of action for the environment and against climate change, while maintaining the civilian dimension of the programme; however, in order to ensure effective progress, further clarification will be needed on more controversial issues such as governance.
i voted in favour of this proposal from the committee on industry, research and energy, which seeks to ensure a more efficient organisation within this young agency in which the european union has placed great confidence.
i therefore welcome the rapporteur's call for concrete measures, such as economic assistance, trade facilitation, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, to support the partner countries in their european aspirations, and at the same time to seek a common strategy towards russia.
of course, the key issue is still energy, linked to the different sources of energy that cross the partner countries to bring resources to the european countries.
i therefore welcome the rapporteur's request to intensify relations and establish close cooperation in the energy sector.
turkey can play a key role in diversifying energy resources and transit routes for oil, gas and electricity supplies from neighbouring countries to the eu.
nothing has been done to guarantee even the minimum rights demands to be respected: the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources and to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the union.
the european arctic strategy is just one of many environmental protection issues the eu is fighting for.
the risks of human intervention in such a particular environment are so great that a strategy must be implemented to minimise the possible negative consequences of human error (for example, the 2010 incident in the gulf of mexico).
i ask commissioners rehn and andor how they felt about being relegated to the role of technical executors of the will of the eurogroup, when the commission should have been carrying out a political task: work in collaboration with national and local governments to adapt recovery programmes to the situation of the countries, to take due and appropriate account of social and environmental indicators, to consider that adjustment programmes must be carried out with the euro area economy as a whole and not as an aggregate of individual economies separated from each other.
but i would also like to emphasize - because i consider it equally significant - the result we will have against the waste of electrical materials.
we often talk about economies that must grow in a way that respects the environment and therefore must be compatible with the world in which we and future generations are called upon to live.
electrical materials are often polluting materials, they are materials that have value, not to waste them and to recover them is a step forward in the direction of sustainable development that we have so often wished for.
i am a staunch federalist, but this is not about the decentralisation of powers, but simply about the global spread of waste without any tangible benefits.
- i welcome the commission's proposal to merge the three existing funds (european refugee fund, european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and european return fund) into a single fund, as it allows in principle a rationalisation of the instruments and the possibility of spending the total amount in a more systematic and waste-free manner, thus contributing positively to the achievement of the eu's objectives in this area.
- the issue of ship scrapping has always been a major environmental and safety concern for the workers involved in this task, the extremely widespread practice of sending ships to the african, indian or asian coasts to be dismantled without taking into account any safety standards and very difficult to defeat, regulations on this matter such as the european one (regulation (ec) no 1013/2006) which prohibits the export of hazardous waste outside the oecd countries are easily circumvented, especially for a sector such as the maritime one.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should provide a detailed description of the measures to be taken to ensure that the waste is not recycled.
however, these publicly funded interventions must be targeted and zero waste.
the subject of the proposal is, however, too important to be the subject of sterile debate, which is why i wanted to support this text, which calls on the member states to increase their level of preparedness and to improve cooperation with each other, while operators of critical infrastructures such as energy, transport and the main providers of information society services (e-commerce platforms, social networks) are asked to take appropriate measures to manage security risks and to report serious incidents to the competent authorities, thus creating an essential condition for a safe and reliable information environment.
the directive and the proposal put forward by mrs weiler also seek to strengthen the eu's fight to eliminate waste and simplify the use of electronic devices, in particular the desire to extend to all radio equipment the need to use a universal charger and accessories.
it also considers it important to invest in renewable energy, the digital agenda, infrastructure, communication and information technologies and to increase cross-border connectivity.
- i welcome the motion for a resolution which emphasizes the importance of rights and property in creating wealth and promoting sustainable development in developing countries and seeks to stimulate the european union to do more in this area.
in this context, poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development are key objectives of the eu, but they are still far from being achieved.
these include agricultural productivity, food security, economic growth, environmental protection and the promotion of women's rights.
- policy coherence for development (pcd) has become an indispensable global strategic tool to avoid overlaps, inconsistencies and waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, human trafficking is a worldwide phenomenon, but it is now dangerously concentrated in sinai, where it finds an environment favourable to the development of this abominable practice.
the agenda includes the report by glenis willmott, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use and repealing directive 2001/20/ec (com ((2012) 0369 c7-0194/2012 2012/0192 ((cod)) (a7-0208/2013).
i have always been in favour of a comprehensive free trade agreement within the association agreement, in which the trade side is as important as the commitment by ukraine to adopt social and environmental standards and to establish an independent judicial system.
we must not and cannot let down our guard in monitoring human, social and environmental rights, which are particularly sensitive issues already at the time when the association agreement was negotiated.
finally, i consider climate change to be important, as do other issues, and i believe that the european union should play a stronger and more 'single-minded' role in the united nations.
it is essential to pursue a coherent approach with a single, global framework and set of objectives, which recognises the link between sustainable development and poverty eradication and includes the promotion of peace and security, democratic governance, the rule of law, gender equality and human rights for all.
i agree that in the new framework the eradication of poverty must remain the leitmotiv, alongside the fight against inequalities and the promotion of sustainable development.
food production is also linked to the need to promote greater environmental sustainability and, more generally, to the fight for sustainable development that takes into account environmental protection needs, which in turn are linked to international stability and peace, increasingly put at risk by non-state threats, in which energy, water and desertification scarcity play a key role.
- i support this report because it highlights the importance of having free european media, in particular a financially sustainable and independent broadcasting service able to promote eu democratic values.
- the aim of this proposal is to introduce measures to protect public health and the environment by regulating and reducing the noise level of motor vehicles.
i believe it is essential to apply common limit values for vehicle noise, and to give the commission the possibility of carrying out an impact assessment of the labelling conditions relating to noise and air pollution levels and information for consumers.
the adoption of this proposal will entail new limits on the noise emitted by road vehicles in order to better protect the health and well-being of citizens who are currently suffering from increasing and unsustainable levels of noise pollution.
the proposal could certainly have been more ambitious with regard to noise limits, but i am happy that this agreement already sets out a clear pathway in different phases with increasing intermediate reduction targets (in 2016, 2020 and 2026 respectively) which will allow industry to adapt while fully respecting the priority need to protect consumers and the environment.
- i have approved the text presented by the commission because i believe that the issue of noise pollution should be given greater importance.
the constant increase in road traffic has as a natural consequence a more than proportionate increase in environmental and noise pollution.
noise pollution from vehicle traffic has a very negative impact on the well-being of european citizens.
the purpose of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of health and the environment and to safeguard the internal market in motor vehicles.
i supported mr ouzky's proposal because i believe that it is appropriate to harmonise the legislation of the member states on the permissible sound levels of motor vehicles in order to combat the harmful effects on health resulting from noise pollution, but i also believe that it is necessary to ensure clear conditions for car manufacturers in the european union.
- the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, drawn up by the commission, aims to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
the additional amendments proposed by the rapporteur are aimed at making the regulation more coherent in order to avoid any misunderstanding of the legislation governing rice imports from bangladesh, and to align it with the general provisions of article 208 tfeu and the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
i particularly welcome the proposals to include a provision on committee procedure in the regulation, to limit the delegated powers conferred on the commission to a period of five years, to stress the need for a more consistent approach in relation to the deposit of a security and to ensure that the regulation is in line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development.
it is also essential to stress that the regulation must be in line with the general objectives of sustainable economic development, decent working conditions and poverty eradication in bangladesh.
access to products from the least developed countries is therefore not only aimed at establishing trade relations with new economies, but also at promoting sustainable development, improving working conditions and eradicating poverty in developing countries.
furthermore, the regulation aims to strengthen significantly some key elements of the current regulatory framework, such as the control of notified bodies, conformity assessment procedures, clinical investigations and clinical evaluation, surveillance and market surveillance, while introducing provisions ensuring the transparency and traceability of devices, in order to improve the health and safety of healthcare professionals, patients, users and handlers, including in the waste disposal chain.
consultations with stakeholders have shown a broad willingness, including on the part of companies, to accept measures that in other contexts might appear burdensome or redundant, but which in this case ensure a climate of social acceptance and prevent witch-hunting phenomena.
- i voted in favour of this report because i am aware of the importance that environmental accounts have now acquired for the eu agenda as indispensable indicators for assessing the progress and well-being of citizens around the world.
following the 2006 european council decision and the 2008 commission communication, the commission also proposed in 2010 to introduce a regulation on european environmental accounts.
air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts.
the present report is therefore intended to confirm the goodness of the commission's proposal and to reaffirm the willingness of the actors involved to strengthen public debate and policy-making in the light of the european environmental accounts.
- i supported the report by my colleague, who brings to the attention of the european commission the results of some pilot tests and new statistical data on the costs of environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow accounts.
- the crisis that has shaken the international financial system has brought to the attention of the legislator the long-standing question of integrating macroeconomic indices, based on gdp and monetary policy, with other elements, such as the sustainable economic well-being index, as a more accurate measure of country systems.
the european environmental accounts regulation, proposed by the commission in 2010, certainly goes in this direction, given the relevance of environmental sustainability aspects to citizens' lives in a variety of ways.
as this regulation has been in force for almost three years, i think it is quite reasonable that the rapporteur's proposal should extend the statistical analysis to the items of expenditure on environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and the physical energy flow accounts.
- the collection of increasingly complete and reliable statistical data, together with the need to know and improve the environmental situation on our planet, are the basis for the desire to establish the collection of data on environmental economic accounts for the member states.
i voted in favour because i agree with the rapporteur that an extra year should be granted to countries that request it to implement the collection of data on environmental economic accounts to ensure that the work is as accurate and useful as possible.
europe is working to develop rigorous tools to measure progress towards social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way, to measure the impact of the economy on the environment and how the environment contributes to the economy with the increasingly necessary link between the environment and the economy.
- the european environmental accounts regulation was the first step towards a rigorous environmental accounting tool, which has been on the eu agenda since 2003, when the argument began to be made that gdp alone was not a sufficient indicator to measure the well-being of citizens worldwide.
i believe that the commission's proposal to extend regulation (eu) no 691/2011 to environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and material flow accounts is a step in the right direction.
- the european union is seeking to promote a better understanding of the interactions between the economy and the environment and to increase the 'responsibility' of policy-makers and citizens.
the new accounts will help to further develop more general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making on environmental issues.
national administrations, by making wider use of environmental account data, will be able to develop well-targeted policies that contribute to the union's strategic priorities on green growth and resource efficiency.
- for many years now, gdp alone has not been considered an adequate indicator of the well-being of citizens in a place, and the quality of the environment is increasingly playing a central role in this regard.
this is why the european commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental accounts, which came into force in 2011, and introduced the first three modules to measure progress towards social, economic and environmental objectives in a sustainable way: expenditure on environmental protection, the environmental goods and services sector and physical energy flow accounts.
i believe that the new european environmental economic accounts can increasingly contribute to the development of increasingly appropriate indicators, which can also strengthen public debate in the preparation of future environmental policies for the eu.
- environmental accounts have been on the agenda of the european union since 2003 and in april 2010 the commission first proposed a regulation on european environmental accounts, which was then adopted and entered into force in july 2011 as regulation (eu) no 691/2011, introducing the first three modules: air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts.
with the entry into force of the regulation, eurostat and the member states started pilot testing the first three modules of article 10 of the regulation (environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and physical energy flow accounts).
having regard to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 691/2011 on european environmental economic accounts, i voted in favour of the proposal.
- the new environmental economic accounts can effectively contribute to developing general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making and this proposal will contribute to further developing more general indicators to strengthen public debate and policy-making.
space systems are essential in areas such as the environment, climate change, agriculture, transport, security.
- i voted in favour of the adoption of the regulation on the management of expenditure in the food chain, for which i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment.
i believe it is essential to cover the costs of controls and the enforcement of all legislation relating to eradication programmes and emergency measures, plant health measures, the financing of official controls, pesticide residue levels in food and feed of plant or animal origin, the placing on the market of plant protection products and the sustainable use of pesticides.
otherwise, it is very likely that interest in vaps will decline and the economic and environmental benefits will be reduced accordingly.
- following the very serious accident at fukushima, which raised serious doubts about the safety of energy from nuclear sources, the european union, which is probably the first in the world in terms of safety, also decided to review the regulations in this field.
i voted in favour of this report because i welcome any effort to improve the already high european standards of safety in health and environmental matters.
nuclear energy, however, is one of the main sources of energy available to the union.
for convenience and consistency i agree with the rapporteur that he has proposed to adopt the same terminology as that used by the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
- i voted in favour of the report by mr liese on the amendment of directive 2003/87/ec establishing a system for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances in the field of international air transport.
the proposal adopted today is a temporary solution, pending international agreement on the delicate issue of reducing co2 emissions from aviation at icao on a single global measure to be applied from 2020. only internationally agreed solutions implemented collectively will be able to contribute to an effective reduction of carbon dioxide emissions in our skies and remove the threat of unnecessary trade disputes between regional blocs and global aviation giants, as threatened by several parties.
the eu is once again confirming its leadership role in the fight against climate change, but it is now necessary that our third country partners and the major economic operators in the aviation sector also contribute to this common objective to defend the future of the planet.
- i supported the proposal because its objective is to promote the icao negotiation towards an agreement on a single global measure to reduce aviation emissions that should apply from 2020. the ets-aviation proposal aims to apply the ets to european regional airspace rather than to all flights arriving at and departing from airports located there.
the icao general assembly adopted a resolution on climate change, which commits to a single global market measure for international aviation emissions by 2016 and to its operationalization by 2020. in the absence of agreement, the ets would be re-implemented for all flights and operators would have to surrender their allowances by 30 april 2014. this outcome would have been likely to be seriously counterproductive to the success of the icao negotiations.
- europe has always paid close attention to the protection of the environment.
as a result, its emissions risk undermining all efforts in other areas.
the need to impose an emissions trading system has been known for a long time, but it often clashes with the interests of airlines and the unfair behaviour of third countries.
- the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amends directive 2003/87/ec and establishes a system for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community.
i think that we should continue to take action to counter the greenhouse effect, which is highly damaging to everyone.
- while i fully support the commission's proposal, a number of amendments were necessary, particularly to strengthen european ambition in the field of the environment and equal treatment with regard to other areas.
in addition, electronic signatures and certificates will be better protected by a more secure online environment through the mutual recognition of electronic identification systems by member states.
- the world economy is transforming into an internet-based economy and the role of ict (telecommunication infrastructure company) as a key element for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth needs to be recognised.
this measure should not alarm european producers and consumers, who will be protected: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
despite the innovations of the lisbon treaty, unfortunately no progress has yet been made in the coherence of external action in areas such as development, trade, energy, environment and migration and other global issues.
the positions of the member states are often very different and the eeas is certainly not a useful summary, but unfortunately it is simply a waste of time.
however, what is certain is that the current situation is hardly sustainable, with double waste and no profit.
in fact, it appears from the report that in 2012 the institution had already made public the cvs of its managers in favour of greater transparency, had used entirely energy from renewable sources and, by virtue of an agreement with the committee of the regions, had reduced translation costs by 1%, a cooperation which i hope will ensure greater savings in the future and can also be undertaken by other institutions given the high translation costs borne by the union.
the reduction in the use of external translations from 5.8% to 4.5% and the total use of energy from renewable sources are positive developments.
however, i have some concerns about the internal planning at the academy, considering the climate of future uncertainty (the recently failed merger with europol and the uncertain relocation of the headquarters) as one of the major causes of these shortcomings.
i regret that three of the four corrective actions requested in the previous report are still pending and only one is considered to be in progress, but overall the efforts made by the academy can be appreciated also considering the climate of uncertainty in which it has been forced to work lately.
- i voted in favour of granting the 2012 discharge to the european environment agency because its administration is sound, fully in line with the guidance provided by the court of auditors and its reports are free from significant errors.
i welcome the progress made by the institute in completing the establishment plan, which contributes to its effective functioning, as demonstrated by the fact that in 2012, among other things, the institute produced two reports for the presidencies on 'gender equality climate change' and 'violence against women victim support', completed the development of the gender equality index, launched seven studies and developed an online database on training resources on gender issues.
- i believe that this european union agency can play a key role in economic recovery, job creation and sustainable growth in europe and that, as one of the three economic and financial supervisory authorities set up to deal with the economic and financial crisis of recent years, coordination at european level must be increased and improved, with the help and active participation of all the institutions and member states of the union.
- i have expressed my opinion in favour of granting the discharge for 2012 to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction, as i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors that it has obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2012. however, it is very unhappy about the waste of money (around eur 200[nbsp ]000) due to the unused space of the former offices of the observatory and calls for a timely remedy.
i believe that the promotion of financial stability and security through the safe operation of european stock markets is essential to economic recovery, job creation and sustainable growth, and that this is something that we should all share and support further.
i welcome the foundation's prompt response to the shift in policy priorities due to the economic crisis, with the launch of new projects linked to priority themes such as the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation and sustainability of the public sector.
- i vote in favour of this report to approve the closure of the accounts and to grant the executive director of the joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. i consider that the assurances obtained by the court of auditors regarding the reliability of the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy are positive and satisfactory, as are the legality and regularity of the operations carried out by it in budgetary terms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think that among the things we will remember as the most important of the european union's activities in recent years will undoubtedly be the commitment to reducing co2 emissions and the effort to diversify energy sources, and i believe that the policy we define which must lead to a decarbonised economy, but also to mobility in this direction, will be one of the objectives which will characterize the results and the - not very many, indeed - successes of the european union's activities in recent years.
i think this is also very important, and i think it ties into another of our goals: the commission's proposal is to implement an energy policy which will free us from dependence on a few sources and a few countries, which is very turbulent, as the dramatic political events of the past few days and weeks have shown.
you can't diversify sources, go to sources with less environmental impact if you don't have a network infrastructure.
it is therefore right that the european union should ask the member states to provide these frameworks and an infrastructure policy for these new energy sources, for these new types of energy.
finally, i welcome the report which the committee on the environment has rejected and i hope that it will be voted on by a large majority tomorrow.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i think that the text adopted by our committee on energy, research and technology is a good compromise.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs from both the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment, as well as my former colleague, francesca barracciu, who has been following this dossier for the socialist and democratic group before me.
as the commissioner said, fees are crucial to the sustainability of controls.
looking on the brighter side of this imperfect budget, we have the connecting europe facility, we have a better and deeper understanding of how important it is to create cross-border connections via this facility, especially in energy, with this precondition for energy solidarity and security.
i have appreciated the energy and attention which parliament has devoted to this very important dossier for the proper functioning of the internal market in products.
first, because it ensures the effective protection of all the public interests that our rules are intended to safeguard: the health and safety of consumers and professional users and the environment.
secondly, our work with stakeholders on the reliability of comparison tools, price transparency and clear billing, especially in the energy sector.
the crisis, with its devastating and protracted effects, has demonstrated certain weaknesses in our financial system and has seriously called into question its sustainability and, in some ways, the sustainability of the european union as a whole.
i believe that it analyses in a comprehensive way the relationship between consumers and companies providing services, including energy services, and for these reasons i have decided to support it.
essential services such as energy, telecommunications, public transport and the post office.
much emphasis is placed on the energy market, which is still too fragmented in europe and for which it is still not possible to benefit adequately from the competition that should exist between different suppliers who can operate on several markets.
- the report on consumer protection in public utilities aims to facilitate citizens' access to services in the fields of energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services.
the inland waterway fleet is extremely sustainable due to its long life cycle.
i agree with the rapporteur that further environmental benefits in terms of air pollutants could be achieved if the propulsion of the fleet were gradually renewed and adapted to new technologies.
the certainty of the legal framework is undoubtedly the first step in encouraging investment and thus ensuring the sustainable development of the inland waterway market.
- while i share some of the views expressed in the wortmann-kool report on the technical requirements for inland waterway vessels, i must point out that the text is more focused on the needs of the countries of central europe than on our own territories and overly emphasizes the need to renew river vessels for greater environmental efficiency, which would bring additional costs to companies already in serious difficulty because of the protracted crisis.
i also appreciate that the report emphasizes the additional environmental benefits, particularly with regard to the gradual renewal of the fleet's propulsion.
madam president, with this directive on alternative fuels infrastructure we are taking an important step forward because we have reached a balanced compromise that marries a non-ideological environmental culture capable of combining sustainability with development, growth, the market and business.
it is a directive which gives a clear direction to the market and which will enable car manufacturers, shipbuilders, energy producers and distributors and manufacturers of technical and technological components to have a certain framework in which to invest.
this will also diversify and improve the security of the eu's energy supply.
at the same time, the proposed directive should support economic growth, strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector.
- i certainly support the report, which touches on a crucial point for the declared decarbonisation targets of the economy announced by the commission for 2030. while in many sectors, starting with energy, the share of fossils in the mix is clearly lagging behind, partly as a result of ambitious renewable energy programmes in the member states (think of the wind energy initiative announced by germany), on the mobility side, many developments have been hampered by insufficient infrastructure or by weak market penetration of technologies that are already widely available and have been in use for some time.
these inadequacies have a further impact on consumers in a market in some countries with major difficulties in the sale of new private or promiscuous vehicles, with obvious negative environmental, economic and productive repercussions.
- some european initiatives in the europe 2020 strategy aim to address major societal challenges such as climate change, energy and resource scarcity and to ensure more efficient use of energy.
- the transport system in the european union is still too dependent on oil as the main source of energy.
alternative systems must be found if we are to succeed in diversifying the use of energy resources.
- the commission proposal is a necessary tool to end the eu's dependence on oil and to improve the diversification of its energy portfolio.
this objective also makes it possible to pursue another objective at the same time, namely economic growth and the strengthening of the competitiveness of european industry, as well as the reduction of harmful emissions.
the priority of the legislation should be to optimise the energy efficiency of the vehicle while reducing the risk of harm to other road users.
in the absence of policies to address the increasing co2 emissions of heavy-duty vehicles, the commission should consider the introduction of energy efficiency standards for heavy-duty vehicles, including the installation of aerodynamic and anti-lock brakes.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
in view of the need to support the inland waterway sector vigorously, i think it is right to include training programmes for all crew members and to make it possible to use funds for the innovation of ships and their adaptation to technical progress in terms of environmental performance.
i also welcome the commission's proposal to extend the current regulation to allow the reserve funds to be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and improved safety and environmental performance, also in the light of the need to invest more in measures to promote 'greening' and innovation.
moreover, cost-efficiency, energy and environmental performance are among the major advantages of such transport and as such should be constantly emphasised.
- while i share in part the proposals in the woormann-koll report, which analyses the transport of goods by inland waterway, i do not think it would be appropriate, especially in view of the period of crisis which has affected this sector, to impose restrictive rules on energy efficiency for inland waterway vessels, and for these reasons i abstained.
to strengthen the sector, it is first of all necessary to strengthen its intermodal logistics, to offer a truly european network capable of reaching even the peripheral regions of the continent: in fact, inland waterways play a very important role in terms of strengthening a sustainable freight transport chain in europe, while the general trend today is a decline in the modal share of shipping.
in the face of a delicate economic environment in the eu, it is appropriate to revitalize eu production in order to deal more effectively with the globalisation of trade, to increase market shares both inside and outside the eu and to react to crisis situations.
i also support the recommendations concerning wine production and more generally the extension of the eligible products: the culture of quality food has long been horizontal across different economic sectors, closely linked to environmental, landscape, cultural and lifestyle aspects: the european union is a privileged area for cultures, and i would venture to say european cultures.
with the increase in the number of people aged 65 to 80, the eu will face new challenges to which it will have to provide appropriate responses and find sustainable solutions to manage demographic change, promoting an active lifestyle and good health.
- the proposed solutions aim at energy efficiency in health and social care systems, reducing the need for transport.
the emphasis on social inclusion, well-being, sustainability is very positive.
in this sense, a key objective is to support energy-efficient solutions for health and social care systems by, for example, reducing the need for transport.
these measures should encourage fast-growing, internationally active and competitive smes and compensate for the lack of private funding for research activities of smes, particularly in the current environment.
the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions to promote innovation and industrial competitiveness and measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, by stimulating policy development and implementation.
- the overall objective of empir is to provide metrology solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, facilitating policy development and implementation.
- metrology is a key element of our high-tech world and this programme aims to provide metrological solutions to support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as, not least, measurement technologies that can monitor, predict and prevent societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, fostering the development and implementation of far-sighted and efficient policies.
- non-financial and diversity information can help companies to better define their socially responsible role and to better highlight the effects of their activities on the environment in which they operate.
- i fully support the objective of achieving a resource-efficient economy based on renewable resources through sustainable bio-industries that do not use gmos.
- i share the evidence emerging from the report analysing the fuel cells 2 joint undertaking, i consider the technical progress and operational results of the first fuel cell programme to be significant and i believe that hydrogen, as an energy carrier, can be used as a clean fuel.
- hydrogen is a very important and increasingly popular energy carrier, since it can be used as a clean fuel and is, in theory, without limits.
i hope that you will now have the courage to clarify your priorities between the market and the environment.
i believe i am not the only one left who believes in rio +20, an economy that combines job creation with environmental and health protection, waste as a resource and reducing the impact on raw materials.
if the problem is to reduce the waste left in the environment to create damage, replacing plastic with another product is not necessary: the pressure would just shift from one sector to another, for example paper would shift to forests.
we have to make sure that we have rules that are consistent with what we say, that we ban the dumping of plastic waste in landfills, that we set criteria for organic and mechanical recycling, that we remove harmful substances from the market.
we have many studies, which we have provided to everyone -- i repeat, to everyone -- that show that biodegradable, compostable, en13432 compliant plastics, when they finish their function and go into the environment, they dissolve, when they end up in recycling, up to 10 percent of presence -- conai study -- in traditional plastics, there is no problem, and in real life, bags are so few that they don't even reach 1 percent.
if this vote is not done properly, we will pay for it, the sea, the environment and our children will continue to pay for it.
those which can be used and composted, and which represent not only the great innovation and research expenditure, but also the great investments which our industries are making in the name of perfect compatibility between man and the environment.
this is not clear cut because there is quite a heavy burden on the environment too – land use, fertilisers, land treatment – so it is a life cycle approach which you have to look at.
in concluding, maybe we do not need a heavyweight approach to the lightweight problems even if they do without any doubt place a heavy burden on our environment, but we need solutions and basically we all agree on that.
i welcome the compromise reached in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety - of which i am a full member - which gives member states adequate flexibility in choosing from a wide range of measures to reduce the consumption of plastic bags.
member states will have the possibility to reduce the final cost of the bag where separate collection systems for organic waste are in place.
i believe that the revision of the packaging and packaging waste directive, as it is designed, will give a new impetus to investment in the bio-economy, a sector in which italian industry boasts that it has been among the first and most innovative in europe.
- the commission proposes to extend the scope of regulation (ec) no 718/1999, to allow the reserve funds to be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and improvement of safety and environmental performance.
in my view, inland navigation offers many benefits: the commission will be able to assess the impact of the proposed measures on the environment and the environment in the light of the experience gained in the past.
- commodity markets arise from the legitimate need of producers and consumers of raw materials, agricultural products and energy to protect themselves against factors affecting prices which are beyond their control.
the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
- the european maritime safety agency has tasks in the field of action against marine pollution.
to carry out its tasks efficiently and fully, it needs adequate financial security, and the commission intends to allocate an amount of eur 160,5 million to it for the period 2014-2020. i believe that the work of prevention and preparation of pollution control by this agency brings not only economic benefits but also non-monetary added value.
in view of the devastating ecological consequences and the enormous economic costs associated with possible accidents and the socioeconomic impact on other sectors such as tourism and fisheries, i believe it is essential to make adequate investments in the agency.
i think that the protocol is generally consistent, efficient and sustainable, and i therefore support it without any particular amendments or modifications.
in addition, i believe this protocol offers an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links between the eu and georgia by enhancing people-to-people contacts and sectorial cooperation.
i voted in favour of this protocol which will allow the gradual opening up of certain union programmes to georgia, offering the possibility of further promoting relations in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields and strengthening contacts between citizens and sectoral cooperation, as well as consolidating political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
- council decision 2002/546/ec of 20 june 2002 authorises spain to apply until 30 june 2014 exemptions or reductions from the tax known as 'arbitrio sobre importaciones y entregas de mercancías en las islas canarias' (hereinafter 'aiem') for a number of local products manufactured in the canary islands, in order to improve competitiveness and compensate for the additional production costs due to isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to stockpile, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped export activity.
i have always found it a waste of time and money to find huge piles of paper distributed at every commission meeting: with the technological means at our disposal, it should be easy to be able to view everything in electronic form.
in any case, from next july we will have a european parliament that spends less and is also more environmentally friendly: it is useless and paradoxical to prepare resolutions on waste and environmental damage when you are the first to fail to act on what you say.
the agreement reached represents a realistic and balanced compromise, including the rationalisation of the selection procedure, the sustainability of infrastructure investments, access to additional sources of eu funding, the possibility for a city to submit proposals of a regional nature and, finally, the recognition of the important role played by the member state hosting the capital.
- i support the agreement reached because it is a realistic and balanced compromise, which provides for a rationalisation of the selection procedure, the sustainability of infrastructure investments, access to additional sources of eu funding and the possibility for a city to submit proposals of a regional nature, recognising inter alia the role played by the member state hosting the capital, while preserving the european character of the initiative.
the current regulation (ec) no 812/2004 has serious shortcomings: the commission has not succeeded in curbing the mortality rate of cetaceans, but on the contrary it is rising sharply, making bycatch one of the most dangerous aspects of the environmental impact of modern commercial fishing.
protecting the biodiversity of our marine ecosystems by regulating destructive commercial fishing practices allows us to offer socioeconomic development opportunities linked not only to sustainable fishing but also to nature tourism, which has been statistically steadily increasing over the last decade across europe: biodiversity is, in fact, one of the major vehicles of tourism today.
the consequences of plastic bag pollution are plain to see, and one fact alone illustrates the extent of the environmental damage: in 2010, over 8 billion plastic bags became waste, with serious impacts on protected areas, fragile ecosystems and marine ecosystems.
i welcome the european commission's proposal and the compromise amendments adopted last month by the committee on the environment.
it will thus be possible to demonstrate to the whole of the european union how it is possible to combine development, research and entrepreneurship in a balanced way with the principles of respect for the environment and of reducing pollution and to find a virtuous way to reduce and recycle waste and plastic.
the case of italy is illuminating: a series of measures since 2011 has resulted in a 50 percent reduction in the use of traditional single-use bags (including through the encouraged spread of reusable shopper bags), an increase in organic recycling rates of plastic waste, an improvement in the quality of the organic fraction through less plastic contamination.
measures which have at the same time produced effects of environmental awareness, concretely reduced the impact of pollution (especially of the coasts), encouraged the growth of new markets for bioindustries.
in this respect, my caveat can be translated into an invitation to the rapporteur to reconsider, in the light of the italian case, the multiple economic opportunities and environmental values of a greater spread of biodegradable and compostable plastics.
on the contrary, i see clear potential on the side of environmental awareness in the direction of circular economies that emphasize sustainability values and can be a driver of innovation and economic and cultural growth.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market.
i also support the fact that biodegradable and compostable plastic materials cannot be presented as a solution to the environmental problem of plastic bags, as they do not represent a solution to waste generation and the use of biodegradable and compostable plastics does not change the mindset of use and throw away.
it seems to me that, without prejudice to the inviolability of the right to rescue, operational forecasts, with precise case studies and well-defined sets of conditions, make it possible to deal with the threat of further humanitarian emergencies in a climate of greater legal certainty, especially for personnel involved in the police activities of the external maritime border.
the proposal provides for increased support for small and mediumsized enterprises affected by dumping from third countries and more vigorous anti-dumping measures, in particular against social and environmental dumping and against dumping of subsidised products.
- the proposal offers the opportunity to adopt a european approach to a mrv system covering both greenhouse gases and air pollutants generated by the maritime transport sector, creating a single approach that will allow the development of emission reduction policies for the maritime sector that are consistent and in line with global policies on climate, air pollution and human health protection.
both on economic and biodiversity conservation issues, the eu needs to be increasingly present alongside its member states in this fight.
the problem of invasive alien species that get out of control has caused an estimated €12 billion in damage every year for the last 20 years because these species have a negative impact on the environment, human health and socioeconomic development.
this number continues to increase because of the movement of people, increased trade and climate change.
in about 10 to 15 percent of cases, these species can reproduce rapidly and uncontrollably, with serious economic and environmental consequences.
the costs of this are enormous, amounting to some eur 12 billion a year in damages and lost production, not to mention the serious impact on our biodiversity.
the environment in which we live is a natural gift that we must defend and preserve from dangerous contamination from outside: this is also a battle to defend our civilization.
- i did not intend to vote in favour of the urutchev report on the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, because the measures required are too costly in relation to the results to be achieved.
japan has been an eu strategic partner since 2003 and since has already cooperated in a number of fields such as customs cooperation and legal assistance in criminal matters, science and technology, internet security, academic and research cooperation, the peaceful use of nuclear energy, business community contacts and the promotion of people-to-people links.
the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment and the fight against social dumping require a transformation and improvement of public employment services, also with a view to achieving the objectives of the 'youth guarantee', which requires close cooperation between all the main stakeholders.
these events and the weak global economic environment, in particular the recession in the euro area, tunisia's main trading and financial partner, has had a very negative impact on the tunisian economy, leading to a slowdown in growth and generating large external and budgetary financing gaps.
for this reason i think that the union's macro-financial assistance will aim to support the restoration of a sustainable external financing situation of the country thereby supporting its economic and social development.
the commission has a variety of tools to verify the fulfilment of the conditions set out in paragraph 16 in terms of civil rights and financial sustainability in relation to the monitoring systems put in place by the imf.
i hope that new marine protected areas and sanctuaries will be established to protect species which are vital to ecosystems such as bluefin tuna, in order to ensure that all the programmatic principles of the resolution in question are respected, allowing the repopulation of endangered species and promoting sustainable fishing against destructive practices.
- the report is based on the following main points: overcapacity of the fleet; transferable fishing concessions and conversion; action plan for small-scale and coastal fisheries; social chapter of the emff; fleet renewal; temporary blocks and mutualisation fund; investment in ports; scientific advice and data collection; aid for storage; compensation for additional costs in the outermost regions; aquaculture; sustainable development of fishing areas; integrated maritime policy.
this will help make eu fisheries more sustainable.
i supported the introduction of the emff because it will support fishermen in the transition to sustainable fishing, help coastal communities diversify their economies, and finance projects that will create new jobs and improve the quality of life in europe's coastal regions.
to promote the creation of new jobs, the emff provides eur 40 000 for fishermen over 50 who hire a young person for at least two years to enable him to learn sustainable fishing methods.
finally, i very much appreciate the theme of the renewal of the european fleet, so as to limit the impact both in terms of the marine environment and of greater safety.
at the same time, parliament has recognised that cofinancing and the so-called innovative financial instruments will only be fully effective if the general legal and regulatory environment is conducive to their development.
- i voted against a text containing provisions to give the eu a strong influence over the extraction of natural gas and oil in favour of alternative energy sources.
- i would like to express my positive vote on the report by mrs meissner on the proposal for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management, aimed at promoting the sustainable growth of maritime and coastal activities in european waters and the rational use of resources.
it is therefore of great importance that optimal planning of the maritime space, including at european level, be achieved with the full consent of the parties concerned, through the establishment of adequate infrastructure and an orderly management of human and economic activities, ensuring an ecosystem approach that ensures the protection of natural resources, through a synergistic action between economic competitiveness and environmental compatibility.
there are practices which may at first appear harmless and economically incentive, such as aquaculture, and which prove harmful to the surrounding environment, the welfare and health conditions of the organisms living in that habitat.
the environmental aspect of this situation should not be overlooked either: activities and resource use in the maritime and coastal sector often take place in environmentally sensitive areas and therefore an approach that takes account of the integrity of ecosystems must be the key.
- i think that the report analysing the regulation on shipments of waste is acceptable and does not present any particular criticisms, which is why i voted in favour of it.
- i appreciate the balanced approach of the report, which avoids easy ideological exploitation and implicitly recognises waste production as an aspect of the global production system.
the illegal export of waste to politically weak or corrupt areas from somalia to west africa is a well-documented scourge whose origins date back to the blockade era.
it is a moral scourge, because of the environmental and health risks in the regions concerned, but above all from an economic point of view, because it is the main obstacle to the widespread development of an adequate industrial base which could, within a legal framework, express an important economic potential also for the emerging countries, in a perspective of comparative advantage.
the effects of slowing down development and innovation are even more visible in the european industrial system, again with significant moral implications not only in terms of corporate social responsibility but also in relation to the overall high amount of funds allocated by both the fp and horizon 2020 to the development of environmentally sustainable economies.
- in the text, the commission identifies a number of specific costs and causes of illegal waste shipment, which are borne by the member states and, ultimately, by european citizens, both in economic terms and in terms of well-being and health.
they reproduce the effects of certain drugs, their consumption is highly harmful to the health of individuals and their marketing under the guise of environmental perfumes and fertilizers is a danger to public health and society.
in economic matters, a framework on cooperation in science, technology, trade and research is needed to increase the eu's innovation potential, but also to cooperate in defining a sustainable common agenda for combating climate change.
we are asking for concrete answers with concrete proposals, we are asking for decisive action, which will enable employment to be revived, a growth plan, public and private investment in large infrastructure and energy networks.
the european union must rise to the challenge and rethink the mediterranean, this great sea, often bloody, but which is our common european frontier, a place for intensive cooperation in support of democracy, fundamental rights, security, sustainable human mobility, economic and social development.
but above all there is a chapter in the last communication from the council and subsequently also from the commission on culture and i hope that this is a subject which the italian presidency - indeed i am sure of it - will make its own: i am talking about the question of the valorisation of cultural, landscape and environmental heritage as one of the great resources for a new model of development, for growth, for a new cultural tourism, for an economy that is also based on cultural sustainability and not only on social, environmental and economic sustainability.
climate and energy: i don't think that italy is a country or has a government that is insensitive to these issues that concern environmental sustainability.
it can be financed by the european investment bank, the financial transaction tax, the carbon tax, two taxes that are conducive to ecological development.
invest in infrastructure, renewable energy, and research: here's the assignment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the very serious environmental crisis in which the regions of southern italy are plunged, and in particular the land from which i come, the so-called "land of fires", demands that the cry for help and alarm raised by the citizens who are called upon to pay a very high price for the mismanagement of the waste cycle and the infiltration of organized crime, be duly heeded.
in recent years, there has been a negative impact on the health of citizens, the environment and agriculture, with an increase in cancer diseases that make it no longer possible to postpone the mapping of risk areas, the implementation of an extraordinary plan of remediation and the adoption of urgent measures for the crisis caused by the agri-food sector, a true local production excellence.
i ask the european commissioner for the environment to start a genuinely new phase with a clear commitment to the issue and a decisive contribution to these emergencies, defining the financing of the most effective strategies, in order to return to those peoples, to my people, a land that is a land of work and prosperity and not of fires and suffering.
the ones that have struck me the most have been these days: change, innovation and sustainability.
i would also like to say that in that small region, but also in all of southern italy, oil is being extracted, the energy of the future, with drilling techniques that are banned in the rest of the world, such as horizontal fracking.
when you say the words innovation and sustainability, what exactly do you mean?
we would have liked to have had more references to environmental sustainability in our development model, which must now take care of the planet.
the economic formula proposed by president juncker does not meet the real needs of the european people and does not allow for a sustainable recovery.
we wonder how much of this tragedy is not the result of western strategic and commercial interests linked to the transit of russian gas and the ukrainian shell gas fields which too many hands would like to exploit without hindrance and without regard for the economic, human and environmental costs.
europe cannot afford a conflict over energy resources right on its borders, for ethical reasons and because these resources are still in the economic form of russia in such abundance that it gives europe the time it needs to become independent of fossil fuels.
these barriers are: the rights that our workers have won after generations of struggle; environmental regulations that limit pollution; food safety regulations, the same rules that protect us from gmo food and hormone-treated meat; european laws that ban harmful chemicals; and finally our privacy, the protection of our personal data.
this treaty establishes a single law, a single rule, that of the market, and abolishes in practice the others, those which defend food safety, labour rights, the environment, agricultural production, privacy, personal data banks, the public nature of the institutions which must guarantee the right to health and education.
the monopoly and genetic uniformity of seeds by multinational corporations will compromise the biodiversity vital to sustainable agriculture.
we can and must use this opportunity to proudly export the most valuable thing we have built over the years: a social model that includes social protection and workers' rights, consumer safety and health, sustainable growth.
the plan for the destruction of the syrian chemical weapons we are talking about was designed, it was intended, it was outlined under the control of the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons and the united nations and the world health organization and the united nations environment programme also contributed to the operation.
a mission between the opcw and the united nations also organised two major briefing events, one on board the cape ray ship, to explain to leading environmental ngos and the international media how the operations to remove first syria's chemical weapons and then destroy them were conducted in full compliance with national laws and international regulations.
all measures taken by the two organisations to ensure the safety of operations and to ensure environmental safety were also indicated.
what are the evacuation plans in case of an environmental emergency?
all these people are also united by exposure to a myriad of other risk factors arising from the legal and illegal disposal of toxic waste, the spread of various types of landfills on the territory, all forms of legal and illegal incineration, oil and gas extraction practices both offshore and on land.
i also met young people last saturday in terni who are risking their jobs because of the excesses of the 'we are facing immediately the conflict between the protection of health and the environment on the one hand and the needs of employment and production on the other.
if we do not stabilise the situation now in 2014 and 2015, then it is indeed going to be difficult to have a sustainable budget in later years.
after the street clashes of recent months and the continuing bloody tensions with russia, the new ukrainian president, petro poroshenko, now faces his first and most important challenge: to reach a ceasefire with the russian government, to restore a climate of calm and to determine freely the future of his country.
i therefore trust that the president-elect of the commission, jean-claude juncker, and the future high representative for foreign affairs will work to re-energize the eu and make it the main actor in resolving the crisis, also to avoid any repercussions on the energy supply of our continent, on which a new and serious reflection must be opened.
i would also like to hear stronger words against precariousness, because it is not just a question of what jobs we can create for young people, but also whether we can create quality jobs in the direction of finally a sustainable future, so in a direction that i think we should feel as responsible towards the new generations.
not just the kind of jobs we create, but finally the direction towards a sustainable future, jobs with investments towards a better environment, culture and research.
finally, to encourage job creation, i call on national governments to reduce the administrative burden on the selfemployed, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and to introduce tax policies which create a favourable climate for private investment.
the european social fund will be crucial in the years ahead, let us not waste it and let us not waste the only resources at our disposal.
i believe that the answer to the security question must be combined with a sustainable political solution involving all components of iraqi society and taking into account their legitimate demands.
the proper management of european funds in the member states should be monitored to prevent fraud and waste.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the waste crisis in italy, and particularly in the south of the country, has become cyclical and the disposal system is not working, despite the goodwill of the people, as is shown by the increase in the percentage of waste being collected separately.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a way that is compatible with the directive.
a proposal for a directive on waste and packaging is now under consideration.
it is our opportunity to strengthen european action, using the principles of the circular economy, a closer alignment of definitions and preventive controls and extended producer responsibility, of urban waste restrictions by 2030. i am sure i can rally the support of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to turn a tragedy into a resource for our communities.
whole sectors are at risk of collapse: the european union is not only a major exporter of agricultural products, we talked about that yesterday, but also textiles, transport, not to mention energy, given the european union's heavy dependence on russia.
now, ladies and gentlemen, given that europe does not need gas, but heat, is it not time, is it not time, for the european union to seriously review its energy policies, to become self-sufficient and to focus definitively on renewable sources?
the agenda includes, for joint discussion, the recommendation of the committee on foreign affairs on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, with the exception of the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed as employees in the territory of the other party (13613/2013 c8-0105/2014 2013/0151a(nle)) (rapporteur: jacek saryusz-wolski) (a8-0002/2014), and the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the eu-ukraine association agreement, as regards the provisions on the treatment of third-country nationals legally employed in the territory of the other party (14010/2013 - c8-0156/2014 - claude moraes (belated) (rule of procedure): 2013/0615 (nle)) i would ask you to respect the deadlines during this debate because at noon we will be in direct contact with the parliament in kiev, so i cannot accept either a blue card or a catch-the-eye.
the political arrangements will bring ukraine closer to the european union, opening new channels of political dialogue and establishing basic rules for cooperation in strategic areas such as energy, transport and education.
a good sign of democracy, which confirms the union's support for this country and, with the creation of a free trade area, the basis for cooperation in areas such as energy, transport and education.
the association agreement strengthens the political partnership and cooperation in the fields of energy, transport and education between the european union and kiev in a particularly delicate international context.
it is therefore necessary to unblock and speed up the problem of payments and reallocate resources to key areas such as employment, small and medium-sized enterprises, the fight against corruption, immigration and microfinance, by cutting down on administrative waste within the european institutions and their advisory bodies.
(the president cut off the speaker)
the agenda includes the discussion of the statements by the council and the commission on the un climate summit in 2014 (23 september 2014 - new york) (2014/2847 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that we are really very surprised, because i have here with me the final document of the european council of 20 and 21 march 2014, where the section on 'climate and energy' confirms the strategic framework for action to achieve the specific objectives of the european union set for both 2030 and 2050 the most ambitious ones.
the document again speaks of increasing energy production from renewable sources, further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, modernization of the energy sector, energy security in both supply and supply of energy, and who could disagree with all this?
but then we find out once again that words do not match facts, because this document was signed by juncker, who has just appointed as the commissioner-designate for climate and energy miguel arias cañete, who was a businessman in the oil industry and who has clearly spoken in favour of fracking techniques, i.e.
we were learning about climate change.
it is a perfect storm, social and energy, climatic and economic, that is not yet understood or accepted.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been said that the international roadmap for climate policy has important milestones ahead of it in the coming months: the un climate summit in new york next week, the 20th conference of the parties in lima next december and finally the agreement that will emerge from the paris conference in 2015. the un summit is a valuable opportunity to re-launch the urgency of decisive decisions for a global policy to combat climate change.
we must say that the european union has always played a leading role in climate policy, a role which will have to be reaffirmed by the new climate 2030 package and which i hope the new commission will be willing to play.
also because it's true what many speakers before me have said: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances is a very good one.
we must fight climate change with a global agreement, which has unfortunately not yet been reached.
i would like to know whether you are aware that fracking has repercussions with very significant environmental damage on the ground, and i would like to know whether you are aware that exposure to hydrocarbons is carcinogenic.
secondly, i think that these are such technical matters that i think that in this house, which is a more political place, it might be worthwhile to focus on other issues and, above all, to highlight the effort that we all make together - because that is what this is about - to bring about changes in climate change policies now.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i hear talk of climate change still in the future: "will happen", "will occur", "will be made".
in fact, the effects of global warming are an emergency already in place, and the term "climate refugees" is sadly a recent one.
well, it's a few months ago, in march 2014, a worrying data that concerns the united states: 65 percent of respondents in one survey know that global warming is happening, but half of them don't think it will pose any serious risks or consequences.
we call for the european union to be a leader in combating climate change, including by engaging productively with the world of science, with the world of science dissemination, with information and with public involvement.
we have heard in this house how much we need accurate scientific information, since some people still do not believe in climate change.
we call for the european union to speak with one voice and to play a leading role in the international climate negotiations.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we expect the next climate summit in new york to make progress towards a new global agreement on the future international climate regime and measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union must be the promoter of an agreement that obliges all countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and must propose a solid and stable regulatory framework.
the summit should be an opportunity to mobilise all states in favour of climate protection and to show that, with the right technological and financial support, emerging and developing countries can effectively reduce co2 emissions without compromising their economic growth.
in line with the shared 2030 targets, decarbonisation can be accelerated by implementing a range of measures including a programme for the phasing-out of high-carbon fuels and technologies, a global carbon tax and the overcoming of tariff barriers and low-emission technologies.
today is the international day for the preservation of the ozone layer.
i hope that the new european commission, which has combined energy and climate... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker.)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr caputo, i would like to ask you how you reconcile your statements, which i agree with, with what are in fact facts, with what you are doing in italy by granting new oil concessions at sea, despite the statements you have just made about the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the consumption of fossil fuels.
i was saying that today, on the international day for the protection of the ozone layer, i hope that the new european commission, which has combined the energy and climate issues, will be able to take all the necessary measures to keep the global temperature rise to less than two degrees celsius, without hiding its head under the sand or, worse, under a sack of coal.
so we probably give gmos a free pass on our tables, and canada does not respect the same environmental constraints that small and mediumsized businesses in europe are subject to.
i am an entrepreneur and i know what it means to produce in europe with environmental and health-protective constraints, which i do share.
and then we talk about the environment.
in fact, like the ttip, of which it is a precursor, ceta aims to put the interests of the private sector and business above rights, social justice, democratic control and economic sustainability.
the international community must devote all its energy to supporting these efforts and complementing them, for example by implementing the relevant un security council resolutions and refraining from actions that risk exacerbating tensions.
azerbaijan is aiming to become one of the main suppliers of gas to europe, so from a commercial or energy-strategic point of view we seem to be very interested in it, whereas our interest in its democratic character and the safeguarding of human rights has been less strong so far.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, to explain why we were unfortunately unable to vote in favour but abstained on this important resolution, because while we obviously share the enormous concern and closeness to the ukrainian people for the dramatic moments they are experiencing and while we strongly share the whole point of paying attention and supporting and solving those sectors of european and italian industry which are heavily affected, there are other equally important points which we do not feel we share, first of all the point concerning the energy sector, where there is even talk of cancelling the agreements already in place with russia, including the south stream project.
although russia is a great economic power, which with its vast territory holds vital energy for the west, and is an important partner in solving the problems in the middle east, it cannot be allowed to violate international law and go unpunished.
the resumption of dialogue between the israeli government and the palestinian consensus government is certainly a positive development and we all hope that it will continue and that the palestinian consensus government will assume full authority in the gaza strip so that a climate of peace can be maintained and there is no falling back into anarchy.
with a view to ensuring a comprehensive and sustainable solution for the security, well-being and prosperity of both palestinians and israelis, and to take note of the eu's commitment to developing effective and comprehensive actions in the areas of mobility and access, capacity building, verification and monitoring of humanitarian aid and post-conflict reconstruction.
europe can and must play a more active role in contributing to the strengthening of long-term and sustainable global security, and to the well-being and prosperity of the peoples involved; i welcome the eu's willingness to develop solutions for effective and comprehensive action in the areas of freedom of access and movement, humanitarian assistance and post-conflict reconstruction.
the recent heavy floods which have hit northern italy and claimed at least three lives, causing several million euros' worth of damage, show once again the importance of sustainable investment in better preparedness against disasters.
urbanisation, population growth and environmental degradation have very much contributed to this trend.
so the commission is implementing the approach across various policy areas, including civil protection, the environment and also regional policy and research and development.
thanks to the support of parliament, we also have a new mechanism for disaster-proofing the major infrastructure projects covered under the environmental impact assessment directive.
for instance, for the 2007-2013 period, funding made available to member states to invest in risk prevention, including against floods – so this is risk prevention in its entirety but it includes floods as well – in risk management and in climate change adaptation amounted to around eur 60.5 billion.
the causes are many: i think that we need to think about climate change, and the cementation and the abandonment of the countryside.
and i would like to speak to those who have worked on the environment in the liguria region, and i can do that, because our colleague briano is here with us, she spoke a little while ago.
it is not the waters that kill the victims of floods, but the people every time they throw concrete into the rivers and every time prevention is hindered, so i ask you what did you do when you were dealing with the environment in liguria?
there is a clear lag, a huge gap to be bridged, between the effects that climate change produces and the ability of our science and our technology to predict the magnitude and the speed of it.
according to a study on climate change, floods cost the european union an average of around €4.9 billion per year between 2000 and 2012. in 2013 alone, extreme floods, which mainly affected central europe and the uk, caused an estimated €12 billion in damage and by 2050 their frequency could increase from an average of once every 16 years to once every 10 years, affecting multiple nations at the same time, with an increase in the resulting economic losses of 500 percent.
we can no longer afford to ignore the problem of climate change, which affects us all.
in a business-as-usual environment like the one we live in, any form of help, any opportunity is a strategic asset of great importance that cannot be ignored or, worse, neglected.
the contraction in demand for steel in the eu automotive and construction sectors as a consequence of the economic crisis and a related increase in production costs (raw materials, energy, environmental constraints, etc.)
- the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide additional support for workers in firms suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade.
i do not mean to underestimate the important things that your commission has done: i am thinking, for example, of the fight against climate change, financial regulation, trade policy, the launching of an industrial policy, the tightening of competition policy, competition policy and the boost to the european internal market.
we have just entered a perfect storm, which includes a climate, energy and economic crisis at the same time, which no country, not even the one with the largest army in the world, has been able to counter effectively and above all in a lasting way, because these three crises are absolutely new in their magnitude and in their interconnectedness on a planet that we have tried to globalize.
commissioner katainen says that we have been realistic because we have combined climate and energy.
we know that it is much easier when we talk about renewable energy, technology, research and innovation, bilateral and multilateral agreements, but when we talk about the global agreement everything is much more difficult.
so i want to end here by asking you to maintain the current system of guarantees for the sectors most exposed to the risk of carbon leakage because we are asking them to make a further effort, to maintain it or to strengthen it and to close with the words of barroso.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, new growth, energy security, climate, these are the subjects to be discussed at the next european council.
it is the horizon that allows us to hold together dangerously disparate objectives, climate protection, employment, investment in alternative energy and secure supplies.
the new deal, by proposing genuine own resources for the union, a tax on financial transactions and a carbon tax, can give growth an ecological dimension and tax financial income, not increasingly precarious work.
however, i would like to make one comment, because we often feel obliged to make climate objectives binding.
the council must therefore adopt the strong question i am asking, but it must also become the climate in which this house is reasoning.
all energy and climate objectives must be subordinated to this general objective!
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
as chairman of the committee on the environment, i would like to stress the importance of implementing the new multiannual programmes which fall within our responsibility: the third programme of union action in the field of health; the environment and climate action programme; the union civil protection mechanism.
i also recall the importance of horizon 2020 for research projects in the fields of climate, health and the environment, as well as the resources for the common agricultural policy - which is already being damaged by the agreements and restrictions from neighbouring russia - can only enjoy full budget support.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
we have all agreed for some time now that after ten years of so-called austerity we finally have a europe which is once again aiming at growth and investing in research, development, the environment, training and employment.
we must therefore reduce wherever possible the waste of the european institutions, including parliament.
the second point which is close to my heart and which i believe is of great relevance is to cut, clearly and sharply, unnecessary expenditure, unproductive expenditure, i would say waste, mr president.
this will result in tough negotiations with the council which otherwise proposes drastic cuts on topics of priority for us, on the following headings: competitiveness for growth and jobs, social and territorial cohesion, sustainable growth and natural resources, security and citizenship.
in short, we hope that this extension can be seen as an act of goodwill on the part of the european union and an incentive to bring the crisis to an end as soon as possible and certainly not as a waste of time or even a habit, and we also hope that the actual trade treaty will enter into force no later than 1 january 2016.
the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the way the community works.
if frans timmermans had not become vice-president responsible for sustainable development, this commission would be weaker.
thank you, mr president, you have appointed as commissioner for energy a man who has business with the oil industry, as well as a figure from the city who is supposed to be in charge of financial transparency and the vice-president of a government which has passed laws against freedom of the press as commissioner for culture.
you know our priorities: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment.
we are voting against because we want more, more respect for citizens, for small businesses, the heart of our economy, more respect for the environment, the only real common heritage, and above all more solidarity because the poor cannot wait.
i hope, however, that president juncker will accept the invitation from my group's chairman, mr pittella, to invest in culture as a pillar of sustainable development.
however, there are also some excellent people in this commission, and the choice of mrs georgieva as vice-president shows the will to give the budget a central role and a role as a growth engine, so that we can invest again in research, development, employment, agriculture and the environment.
perhaps this is not a coincidence, since a financial lobbyist, hill, has been appointed to financial services, the son of the troika, katainen, to vice-president for jobs, growth and competitiveness, an oilman, cañete, to energy and climate change and an illiberal, navracsics, to education, culture and youth.
of course, not everything is convincing in the composition of the board: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
from the outset, the new president characterised the new commission's action as quick-witted, and he reiterated that on some issues europe was lagging behind - think of youth unemployment, the current ebola crisis, the big issues of climate change or energy supply.
i believe that the only hope, the only horizon for all is europe, to invest in it, to build a solid alliance on the political, fiscal and social levels; the european union is committed to finding common answers to problems that affect us all, from youth unemployment to climate change, to the implementation of sustainable development.
and the team that's going to be on his side is in some ways even worse, with an oilman who's going to be on climate, a financial lobbyist who's going to be on banking regulation, and a minister who's brought his country to financial ruin who's going to be on the economy: i am sure that this is a good representation of what this european union is becoming.
we understand the reasons and hopes of many researchers working in this area of basic research, especially if we refer to the objective of reducing the production of nuclear waste as the iter project promises to do.
- the cuts envisaged by the council in the commission's proposal on the level of payments for 2015 are not sustainable in the current crisis: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the competitiveness of the european economy, growth and jobs.
i also believe that unnecessary expenditure and waste must be reduced.
- i voted in favour of the report on the draft budget of the european union for 2015 as i share the line taken by parliament in this respect, especially as regards the increase in strategic investment in measures with european added value to help boost the european economy and promote competitiveness, sustainable growth and employment, especially for young people.
the credibility of the european union must not be weakened by continuing delays in payments, to the detriment of smes and young people, and by the unnecessary waste of economic resources.
in the committee on budgets, m5s proposed a number of cuts in all the administrative waste in the various european institutions and at the same time tried to reallocate part of these cuts to items to support the real needs of citizens, such as appropriations for employment, the fight against fraud and corruption, smes, policies for managing and controlling migration flows and instruments to facilitate access to credit.
the text is not convincing in several respects, not least because the companies in the asian country are much more dynamic and develop in a much more competitive environment than ours.
the decision to vote in favour of mr zahradil's report stems not only from the foregoing considerations but also from a clear awareness of the following: the reduction of trade barriers and the creation of a more stable and transparent environment for trade and investment are two essential prerequisites for achieving prosperity and growth within our countries.
the eu-south korea free trade agreement is not convincing in several respects, not least because companies in the asian country are much more dynamic and develop in a much more competitive environment than ours.
finally, i share the concerns expressed about the risks to the growth and sustainability of smes and the calls for restoring the capacity of the economic system to lend and facilitating access to programmes such as cosme and horizon 2020 for smes.
the text produced by the econ committee was not sustainable for us, especially as regards the strictly economic part.
my approval of mr de backer's report comes from the awareness that in order to promote smart and sustainable economic growth and full employment in the union in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, small and medium-sized enterprises, as the driving force of our society, need our maximum support.
- by adopting this report, we want to underline the crucial role of the community budget in stimulating sustainable growth, promoting job creation and reducing macroeconomic imbalances in the european union.
deep, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms are needed to generate growth and jobs, as well as policies that promote competitiveness and support investment by improving the functioning of the labour market.
conscious of the crucial role of the eu budget in stimulating sustainable growth, i believe that the union must invest much more in research and development, education and resource efficiency.
i therefore very much hope that the future president-in-office's 300 billion plan, for example, will not be a mirror for the blind, but on the contrary, that it will represent new and fresh resources for job creation and sustainable growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
let us follow their example and support those who fight for equality and a sustainable future, against the social monster created by globalization, consumerism and savage capitalism.
in short, this little battle of principle between parliament and the council is the reason for the failure of this institution, the excessive differences and the pressure applied without taking into account the damage it causes to those outside who dream of a true union of peoples, in the name of fraternity, solidarity and sustainability.
i stress and repeat, we must say this with great energy.
i am voting for this resolution in the hope that this extension can be seen as an act of goodwill on the part of the eu and an incentive to bring the crisis to an end as soon as possible, not as a waste of time or a mere habit, and we also hope that the actual trade treaty will enter into force no later than 1 january 2016.
in writing.
the diversity of the social environment and of the activities involved, together with the seasonal nature of this segment of the european inland waterway transport sector, mean that work is organised differently.
i believe that the proposal is in line with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and that the new rules will improve the environmentally friendly transport mode, which contributes in a sustainable way to decongesting european road and rail freight transport.
- i am pleased that an agreement has been reached between the european barge union, the european organization of captains and the european federation of transport workers on the organization of working time, in a climate of constructive dialogue.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at this moment in cypriot waters there is a clash between cyprus and turkey over energy security.
- the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide support for workers in firms suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade.
in that area, the italian energy company (eni) had begun drilling for possible hydrocarbon reserves in the seabed.
with the rapporteur, mr stier, and the other shadows and all the colleagues who have contributed, we have done a tremendous amount of work in a very short time, in a spirit of collaboration and with an awareness of the importance of this report which will be the position of this parliament on the definition of the sustainable development goals which will be negotiated at the united nations next year.
we wanted to make the fight against all inequalities a top priority of the new agenda, alongside poverty eradication and sustainable development.
many others are the innovative and courageous aspects: the fight against poverty, for example, which we call for not to be measured solely on the basis of income but to consider broader measures of progress and well-being, as well as the desirable raising of the poverty line to two dollars a day; climate change and the need to move with determination and courage towards sustainable production and consumption patterns at last; universal access to quality health and education for all; the need to combat corruption, tax evasion and avoidance, which rob countries of essential resources, including through innovative forms of financing such as the financial transaction tax; and finally the important role of civil society, organisations, local authorities and national parliaments in the new framework, which will be all the stronger the more it is shared and built by more hands.
in this regard, we have stressed the need for all actors involved, including the private sector, to be guided at all times by the objectives of development cooperation, respect for human rights, protection of workers and the environment and the principles of transparency and accountability.
it is a strong and ambitious report, which we hope will receive the widest possible support from our colleagues (also because next year will be the european year of development), in the knowledge that we are also going to vote on the future of our cooperation policy and in the hope that the union, also with the contribution of the high representative, commissioner mimica and the president of the european council, will be able to make its voice heard in the community of states, in support of a world not only free of poverty, hunger and disease but also fairer, more equal and more attentive to sustainable development and the rights of everyone, because i believe that this is the responsibility we have towards the new generations.
we believe, however, that environmental sustainability and its impact on human development must be central to the post-2015 development framework.
the fight against climate change is a prerequisite for overcoming poverty and ensuring food security and sustainable development.
climate change is not just an environmental problem, but it has many effects on a country's health, development and economy.
for many developing countries that are not able to manage their risks, reducing climate change means mitigating the risk of natural disasters that directly affect the lives and poverty levels of those areas.
we call on the european union, in setting its negotiating strategy for the post-2015 development goals, to place the fight against climate change and actions to address it firmly among its priorities.
it looks at the environmental impact of this legislation.
how do we achieve the goals of sustainable growth in europe without an undue burden on citizens and enterprises?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the cap and trade system was introduced in the doha round as a tool which was supposed to make it possible to reduce emissions of climate-changing gases, as decided by the kyoto protocol, in the most efficient and economical way.
it was thought that leaving the cost of emissions to the market could encourage more virtuous behaviour and penalize companies that did not want to invest in better technologies.
the whole climate and energy package voted in early 2009 is based on co2 cost projections that are far from reality.
to combat the climate change that is taking place, we need serious instruments that do not allow the parasitism of brokers and financial markets, the only ones for which the ets is working very well.
caring for fragility means strength and tenderness, it means struggle and fecundity in the midst of a functionalist and private model that leads inexorably to the "culture of waste".
it is enough to think, for example, of alternative sources of energy, the development of which would be of great benefit to the protection of the environment.
respect for the environment, however, means not only avoiding its deterioration but also using it for good.
moreover, this proposal is closely linked to the fourth railway package, which, among other objectives, aims to encourage greater innovation and investment in european railways, with the aim of achieving greener and more sustainable modes of transport.
finally, the railway protocol is also in line with the objective, set out in the 2011 white paper on transport, to move towards greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail.
if we look at the fourth railway package, which is being discussed at the moment, we see that there is a close link with this proposal, where we need more investment and more innovation, with greener and more sustainable modes of transport, in the european railway system.
i voted in favour of this legislative resolution because i believe that the economy and people must live in a global and european legal environment where judicial decisions taken in a country other than the country of residence have a positive value.
the european globalisation adjustment fund has been established as a legislative and budgetary instrument to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of world trade and to facilitate their reintegration into the labour market in sustainable economic sectors.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
a dignified existence means upholding and fighting for respect for human rights, creating the conditions for truly sustainable development, guaranteeing equitable and universal access to health and food security and, above all, guaranteeing access to quality education, an essential tool for the real long-term development of self-sufficient societies.
- i did not vote for this text which attempts to put an approach to environmental policy and the issue of climate change that i do not share among the priorities of the poorest communities.
- i support the report because i firmly believe that the eu must take a strong, clear and coherent position on the global development framework after 2015. the eradication of poverty must remain the top priority of the post-2015 development agenda, alongside economic, ecological and social sustainability.
i voted in favour of this negotiating mandate so that the eu can make its voice heard at the united nations with regard to sustainable development, so that the views of all countries, including industrialized countries, are taken into account and reasoning with rationalistic logic is stopped.
global challenges are set to increase due to serious situations such as poverty, human rights violations, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, unemployment, demographic change, corruption, unsustainable growth and financial and economic crises.
the post-2015 framework requires a human rights-based approach in addition to the promotion of peaceful societies, by seeking to drastically reduce poverty, by promoting, as highlighted by the rio+20 commitments, a fight against soil and land degradation, and by also recognising that water is at the heart of sustainable development.
to do this, new development models must be defined that ensure inclusive and sustainable development.
- in september 2000, the united nations adopted the millennium declaration, which led to the creation of concrete development goals to be achieved by 2015. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the priorities of the post-2015 development framework should be articulated around key points such as poverty eradication through the fight against inequalities and sustainable development, conflict prevention, post-conflict reconstruction, peace building and peace promotion.
in this sense, trade policy, for example, while aimed exclusively at economistic objectives, must be geared to promoting our core values, helping to generate fair models capable of ensuring sustainable economic growth and jobs; improving people's living and working conditions; strengthening sustainable development, promoting social standards and environmental sustainability.
we call for the global issues of poverty, health, food security, education, gender equality, water and sanitation, sustainable energy, decent work, inclusive and sustainable growth, inequalities, sustainable consumption and production, and biodiversity to be addressed.
in particular, we intend to urge the united nations to make gender equality, women's rights, women's empowerment and the human rights of women and girls an independent goal and an essential requirement for equitable and inclusive sustainable development.
in particular, i believe that the eradication of poverty, the fight against inequality and sustainable development cannot be achieved without a commitment to climate change, food security, without a real commitment to fight against the use of fossil fuels that degrade soil, water and the environment, denying future generations the future they deserve.
in its role as guardian of human rights, it must work to ensure the rights of women, children and minorities, to ensure education, access to sanitation, drinking water and employment, in a framework of promotion of sustainable development involving all actors: the european commission has also been active in the field of education and training.
- i have decided to vote no for these two reasons: excessive emphasis on a pre-eminent eu and un policy-making role on post-2015 development by the union at the expense of member states and support for environmental and climate change policies that i do not fully share and that are not priorities with regard to issues such as development and poverty eradication.
to be credible and effective, the european union must create the conditions for linking its investments in cooperation to the fight against adaptation and climate change.
- i am voting in favour of the report by mrs marita ulvskog because i am convinced that it can bring great benefits to the european union by ensuring sustainable growth based on the defence of rights.
- i have decided to offer my support to the ulvskog report, as i believe that the europe 2020 strategy can help to fuel sustainable and inclusive growth within the european union.
it is clear that, in the wake of the global economic crisis, the main objectives of the strategy, formulated in 2010 (employment, education, social inclusion, innovation and climate/energy), need to be, in my view, completely re-formulated.
the strategy must therefore be more effective in tackling the social issues of poverty reduction and increased employment, with a more sectoral and sustainable approach, with a more targeted use of the structural funds and more youth policies, avoiding a focus on macroeconomic growth alone.
it is not sustainable to cause mass drownings, it is not sustainable to leave hundreds of syrians on hunger strike alone in these hours in athens, it is not sustainable to spend euros to save shipwrecked people.
the money that the european union and individual member states are allocating to the flow management and reception system must be subject to stricter controls to prevent fraud, speculation and waste.
in this context, a joint effort by the european institutions and the member states is needed to ensure better prevention of emerging risks, better implementation of existing legislation and more effective use of european funds to finance initiatives for safe, healthy and sustainable employment.
we need clear priorities, citizens need to know where their money is going, and our priority is the energy transition.
climate change threatens the survival of our societies and we cannot claim to have a vested interest in facing such a challenge.
we must act and lay the foundations for truly sustainable development.
but i also want to say that you don't waste a second.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, under-secretary, in lima we will be faced with a major political challenge, namely to convince all the parties involved of the need to invest in an ambitious climate policy in order to safeguard the environment and at the same time create jobs by encouraging the development of sustainable technologies.
the overall objective we are pursuing is to strengthen the commitment of the entire international community to sustainable development, because i believe that this is the real element through which we can build sustainable growth.
considerable progress has been made towards the european union's objectives on greenhouse gas emission reduction, renewable energy and energy efficiency, and the same needs to be done at international level.
as pope francis reminded us yesterday, in his speech, we have a duty, if not an obligation, to protect the planet for future generations, and as europe we intend to play a key role in the next negotiations to try to reach a truly ambitious agreement in paris in 2015. i would also like to stress the importance of funding in this area, and i would remind you of the commitment made by the european union and its member states to progressively increase the mobilisation of climate finance, which is essential for investing in research and sustainable development.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, from the first cop in berlin to kyoto and today, 20 years of exhausting climate negotiations have been going on.
but together, the european union, china and the united states are responsible for 50% of global emissions.
yet, only today, the american and chinese presidents declared their intention to stop the growth of emissions by 2030. who knows when they will decide to declare their intention to reduce emissions.
we insist on drawing out of the cylinder new percentages: 40% of emissions, 27% of renewables, 30% of energy efficiency, and so on.
we have to understand that to really fight climate change, it only takes 100 percent change of mindset.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware, i think, that we must reach a binding global agreement, as mrs grossetête has said, because otherwise the climate will not benefit, we will only have costs.
so even if europe were to achieve zero or close to zero co2 emissions, as under-secretary gozi dreams, we would not achieve any environmental benefits, because we would only have a relocation of our production to be produced elsewhere, emitting even more than they emit by producing in europe.
we believe, for example, that binding targets could be agreed for energy saving and energy efficiency, two areas which allow the best optimisation of investment.
the energy saved is the energy that costs less.
the investments pay off in three to four years and with the involvement of the energy service companies a virtuous mechanism could be triggered.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for too long we have underestimated the seriousness of climate change.
the environment committee voted a resolution by a very large majority, broad and precise.
there are specific and concrete commitments and it also tackles the issue of funding by committing the money we make from the carbon market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of lima is a global agreement to reduce emissions of pollutants and to prevent dangerous interference by these changes.
there is no longer any doubt about the disastrous effects of climate change and europe must be present at this meeting without hesitation and as a leading actor.
it is no longer the time to think, as i have heard from many, of environmental policies as a brake on development: i'm actually a driver.
but we need to rethink the growth model we have pursued so far, a new deal that has great potential, including for creating new jobs in research, innovation, renewable sources, energy efficiency, air quality and adaptation to climate change.
i would remind you that the floods which have hit europe in recent years are already an effect of these changes and call for action to prevent them, by reducing emissions and global warming on the one hand and investing in risk reduction works and actions on the other, creating new skilled jobs to save resources.
this is no longer the time for compromise agreements: the new framework we will be preparing in lima and which will emerge at cop21 in paris in 2015 must aim at ambitious targets, up to a 50% reduction in emissions by 2050. our delegation in lima will take a position which will of course be very attentive to the impact that reducing emissions will have on the competitiveness of the european manufacturing, industrial and chemical sectors.
the contribution europe can make to these countries in terms of technology transfer and reduction capacity building will then be decisive, including through an increase in the united nations green climate fund: the latter is the best investment that european countries can make to promote the energy transition and a fairer competitive position at global level.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the international conference on climate change which will take place in lima next week seems to be coming under the best of auspices.
recent signs of openness to an agreement and the willingness of the us and chinese governments to play a more significant role in the global effort to tackle climate change are encouraging.
the scale and severity of the threats posed by climate change can no longer postpone the need to activate, at global level, concrete measures to limit warming and start the transition to a low-carbon economy.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the progress on climate at the g20 summit in brisbane and the new sino-american commitments on reducing emissions of pollutants are leading to optimism in the run-up to the climate conference in lima in december.
the negotiations at the next conference must put the planet on track to reach an ambitious global agreement in paris in 2015 and keep global warming within 2 degrees.
the transition to a low-carbon economy will create jobs and develop the technologies and products needed.
as regards the role of the european union, i think that the 2030 targets on renewable energy and energy efficiency should be a starting point.
more ambitious targets are needed, and the process of decarbonising the economy can be accelerated by implementing a series of measures at global level, including the definition of a programme for the gradual replacement of high-carbon fuels and technology, the introduction of a global carbon tax, the overcoming of tariff barriers to the spread of low-emission technologies, the protection of intellectual property in favour of low-emission technology producers, the introduction of financial and technological cooperation measures to support emerging economies to build the infrastructure needed to change the energy system.
climate change and its dramatic consequences require ambitious strategies: the lima conference will be held in order to agree a draft negotiating text for the new agreement to be reached in paris in 2015. the advances made by china and the united states in recent weeks are an important signal: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat climate change and to ensure that the world's population is not left behind.
investing is the key word: infrastructure and innovation are key to reducing co2 emissions and at the same time can increase the competitiveness of our economy.
i consider it important to commit to increasing economic resources for climate mitigation and adaptation.
i also hope that the funds in the juncker plan will be directed towards sustainable economic growth.
i voted for this resolution because it is clear that the eu needs to have a very advanced and modern policy in terms of environmental protection.
we must position ourselves so that european standards are world standards (because they are the most advanced) and, in the same way, we must ensure that our own standards evolve towards even more environmental protection and energy efficiency.
i voted against: this is the usual annual resolution on the annual conference of the parties (cop) to the unfccc, the usual unilateral climate policy that is suicidal for business and ineffective against pollution.
climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing all of humanity.
i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the united nations climate change conference to be held in lima from 1 to 12 december 2014. the protection of the environment and respect for the kyoto protocol and the agreements signed must be the future cornerstones of european development, with the aim of reconciling industrial interests and respect for the environment.
the union's climate policy needs to be reinforced and an agreement quickly reached on ambitious and binding targets for emissions reductions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources by 2030, as these targets would help to boost international climate discussions and be in line with the eu's commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. the eu should commit to reducing climate warming and help cut global carbon emissions by 40 to 70% by 2050 this requires a great deal of effort in all regions of the world and the eu certainly cannot stand by and watch.
according to the scientific evidence presented in the 2014 reports of the ipcc working groups for the fifth assessment report, the warming of the climate system is unequivocal.
the widespread and far-reaching impacts of climate change are already clearly observable in natural and human systems across all continents and oceans.
continued greenhouse gas emissions will cause further warming and changes to the soil, atmosphere and oceans in all regions of the globe.
all countries, regardless of their wealth, will be affected by the impact of climate change.
global greenhouse gas emissions in the decade 2000-2010 were the highest in the entire history of mankind.
without strong global mitigation action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the global average temperature increase is likely to reach 5°c by the end of the century and, according to the ipcc's conclusions, some risks from climate change are significant.
the un climate change conference opening in lima on 1 december will be a litmus test of the political will to reach an ambitious and fair global agreement on climate change.
the commitments to reduce emissions made by china, the united states and the european union are promising.
deforestation is a very important driver of climate change, and that's why it needs to be tackled on a global scale, through the involvement of institutions and civil society.
- i am voting in favour of this document because climate change is undoubtedly a serious threat to society as a whole, to biodiversity, to agriculture and to the planet as a whole.
i believe that the european union must act to counter the negative effects and the document focuses on the need for the eu to take a leading role in the fight against the global climate crisis.
the scale and severity of the threats posed by climate change can no longer postpone the need to take concrete action to eliminate the serious consequences of climate change.
all governments worldwide have a responsibility, especially to future generations, to implement appropriate climate measures.
the lima stage is a key step in the definition of financial commitments and cooperation in the run-up to the paris conference, which will have to define the main climate objectives post 2020, and i have therefore decided to vote in favour.
- climate change is a serious threat to global society, to biodiversity, and to the entire planet.
the document highlights the need for the european commission to take a leading role in the fight against the global climate crisis.
- we want to express once again our grave concern about the serious consequences of climate change.
we call on the commission to take a leading role in tackling the global climate crisis, placing it at the heart of its next strategic priorities.
all governments worldwide have a collective responsibility, including to future generations, to take appropriate climate action.
climate change poses a potentially irreversible threat to humans and the environment.
reducing greenhouse gas emissions is one of the priority objectives to ensure that global warming is kept to 2 degrees celsius.
the lima stage is a key step in the definition of financial commitments and cooperation in the run-up to the paris conference, which will have to define the post-2020 climate objectives, and i would therefore like to express my vote in favour.
i voted in favour of the resolution on the un conference in lima because the european union, especially through the commitment and guarantee of a parliament delegation, must contribute to maintaining the international commitment to tackle global warming, which threatens the planet, the health and economic development of society as a whole, especially the poorest sections.
this is due to greenhouse gas emissions, for which the entire international community is responsible and for which the implementation of policies more "bold" than those already in place is necessary to reduce.
climate protection needs to be financed and an eco-sustainable economy needs to be developed, focusing on innovation and competitiveness in order to increase energy independence and security and lower the cost of energy.
in this context, europe must adopt a unified environmental policy vis-à-vis international bodies.
i voted in a strong and convinced way in favour of the resolution on the eu position in view of cop 20 on climate change because i believe it is an absolute priority of parliament and the other institutions to make a single, strong and clear voice heard by all our partner countries at a time when very serious atmospheric phenomena constituted by climate change threaten us in an increasingly persistent way.
i believe that the international response is still too weak, as evidenced by the limited progress achieved in terms of global warming and the still excessive co2 emissions.
that is why i think we need to find a global agreement to eliminate the risk of carbon leakage.
i understand that we are in a period of budgetary constraints, but i believe that in this area we must try to increase climate finance, also inviting third countries to contribute in proportion to their means.
finally, i welcome the outcome of the last european council, where all member states will be required to reduce their emissions in accordance with their capabilities and possibilities.
- i decided to vote against because it is the usual annual resolution on the conference of the parties (cop) of the unfccc which discusses a suicidal unilateral climate policy.
the g20's anti-corruption action plan for 2015 and 2016 which i hope will lead to improvements in transparency and efficiency in both the private and public sectors, as well as the reference to actions to be taken to mitigate the effects of climate change and to promote youth employment, which has reached unacceptable levels, is a good thing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the completion of the european digital market is a priority and its positive impact on economic growth and the quality of life of citizens does not allow us to waste any more time.
as you remember, the commission adopted a year ago, in june 2013, a commission communication action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe, the so-called steel action plan.
it has also made significant efforts to reduce its environmental impact.
the sector, however, faced and still faces major challenges: low demand, increasing energy costs, reliance on imported raw materials, strong and not always undistorted competition and challenging environmental requirements.
we strongly urge that the most relevant, more specialised production lines, such as the ast plant in terni, be maintained, which, moreover, as an integrated cycle plant with a low environmental impact, also has a high level of production specialisation.
at the same time we are guaranteeing environmental plans for the rehabilitation of all european steelworks, not to mention those in italy, which are devastated.
there are reasons, specific reasons, for which we must be vigilant, particularly at this time, trying to balance, as has been said, the reasons of large-scale industry with the reasons of justified concern for the environment.
but with the concern that environmental concern will not turn into ecological obsession and thus produce anti-industrial attitudes, because the only great effect of the anti-industrial attitudes we know of is the reduction of work on our continent.
do not give us, the environmentalists, the crazy, the taliban, the extremists, because we are talking about an extreme emergency, not only economic, but also environmental and health.
i did not speak of the taliban, i did not speak of the madmen, i simply spoke of the need for there to be - try to listen to the recording of my speech again - a proper balance between the needs of the industrial strength of our countries and the right, legitimate ecological concern, so that ecological concern does not turn into ecological obsession and therefore into anti-industrial behaviour.
it is crucial, however, that this plan, madam commissioner, is not just announced but that it is equipped with immediately operational instruments and, above all, that it is a priority and that it follows a coherent line, aimed at employment and energy and environmental innovation in all the international contexts in which the union is involved.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe has long since exhausted the continent's cheap energy and mineral resources, but we have been able to maintain our industry thanks to a political, economic and technological supremacy which has continued through inertia for decades and which is now over.
today the center of the world is elsewhere, in places where other nations are redeeming themselves, where energy is cheaper, minerals are cheaper, labor is cheaper.
the products manufactured in europe carry many additional costs not only for the above-mentioned imports but also for the hefty costs of european standards on the environment, emissions, social protection and workers' rights.
we must therefore have the courage to impose a new form of social and environmental taxation not only on the member states but also on those who export steel to europe, a taxation which is not an anachronistic form of duty but which is ethically and thermodynamically consistent and which at least allows for a level playing field.
a european taxation, therefore, which incorporates in the final prices of imported products also energy consumption, emissions, environmental and health externalities for mining and transport of minerals, the deficit in social and trade union rights of workers outside europe.
this is one of the revolutions we expect from this europe, but it takes courage and strength to discuss the rules of competition and state aid of the european states to the renewable energy transition.
do we want sustainable development?
i am from taranto, a city notorious for the ilva steelworks, one of the largest in europe, which is responsible for the pollution of the air, the soil, the surrounding land, which has seriously affected the local health and the local economy.
this is in clear violation of article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which aims at a high level of protection based on the precautionary principle and the principle of 'polluter pays', and also in violation of directive 2010/75/eu, article 8 of which states: 'where the breach of the conditions of authorisation constitutes an immediate danger to health or ... the environment ... the operation of the installation ... or of the party concerned shall be suspended.'
i therefore ask parliament and the commission to draw up industrial conversion plans which guarantee safety, health of workers and the environment where, as in taranto, the disposal of polluting industrial sites and plans for environmental rehabilitation and neighbouring land rights are necessary.
it also has to be said that we have the waste shipment regulation to prevent illegal scrap from leaving europe.
it reminds us all that undernutrition is not only a real human tragedy but also an economic issue which can be in the way of sustainable development.
the right to food will only be guaranteed if we take care of the real subject of the right, the person who suffers from the effects of hunger and malnutrition, and this means, at the political and legislative level, ensuring the greatest possible coherence between the internal and external policies of the european union, between the commitment to poverty reduction and the implementation of european choices in policies such as agriculture, the environment, fisheries and energy.
i therefore urge my colleagues in this parliament to accept our amendment which provides for the provision of sustainable water and electricity as a sine qua non condition for the people of the underdeveloped countries to live independently.
we must not waste time in fruitless discussions, because in the minute that i have been giving this speech 12 other children have already died.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, child malnutrition and world hunger must be the real priority for the european union and the commission must develop a serious policy against food waste.
since 1 january 2014, it has been granted gsp+ status, a preferential access to the single market given to developing countries that commit to ratifying 27 conventions related to human rights, labour, environment and good governance.
gsp+ offers a clear framework for assessing and promoting progress in implementing the 27 co-international conventions on human rights, labour rights, environment and good governance – a process we are following closely.
women and their bodies are instruments of war, sexual violence is a weapon of devastation designed to spread a climate of terror.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted no confidence in the juncker commission today for all the reasons set out in the motion of censure which i signed with the spokesmen of the five star movement and 75 other members, but also because of my direct experience in the environment committee of this parliament.
i represent the europe for freedom and direct democracy group as coordinator here and all the policies relating to the environment, health and food security are discussed there.
they are therefore not committed to reducing the harmful emissions of the businesses of a united europe.
the european commission should also continue to use the impact assessment tool for all legislative proposals with a significant economic, social and environmental impact, as well as for non-legislative proposals defining future european policies and for delegated or implementing acts.
i supported this resolution because i am convinced that betting on the digitalisation of the business environment and on a digital economy is the right choice to restart growth and employment in europe.
the proposal provides for the adoption of a package to ensure adequate protection of users and a stable regulatory environment in which companies operating in the sector can grow.
that is why i supported this motion for a resolution, which calls for the adoption of an updated data protection package, which ensures, on the one hand, adequate protection for users and, on the other, a stable regulatory environment in which companies operating in the sector can grow.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
i believe that the european union can strengthen its action at international level and further mobilize resources and long-term investment, in collaboration with actors such as un agencies, the g8 and g20, international organizations and non-governmental organizations, and still call on the states that joined expo 2015 to initiate initiatives that lead to binding commitments and targets to fight hunger and malnutrition through diversified strategies, from sustainable agriculture to cooperation.
this paradox should make the european commission reflect, which should develop serious policies against food waste and coordinate the mobilization of greater resources to combat malnutrition involving other players such as the united nations, the g8, the g20 and emerging countries.
i believe that global commitments to food security, nutrition and sustainable agriculture can be helpful in addressing the causes of child and maternal malnutrition in countries like asia and africa, where 90 percent of children at risk live.
agricultural and food systems, including crops, livestock, fisheries and aquaculture, must be regulated through concerted public policies, taking into account resources, the environment, people, the processes by which food is produced, processed, distributed, prepared and consumed.
expo milano 2015 will be dedicated to 'feeding the planet, energy for life' and, among all other relevant events and venues, will be an opportunity to highlight the importance of food safety and nutrition and to raise public awareness; it's up to us not to waste this opportunity.
to tackle the problem of undernutrition and malnutrition in children in developing countries, an integrated approach and coordinated action is needed in a number of key areas, such as health, education, agriculture, water resources, access to energy and health infrastructure.
we call on the commission and the member states to adopt coherent long-term development strategies, including in the context of emergencies and humanitarian intervention, integrating nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture into all their development policies.
i am well aware that great efforts will be needed to achieve effective and coordinated action in the various policies in this complex area: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes, including the implementation of the eu's climate action programmes, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental and climate action programmes.
member states should give greater attention to nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture in all their development policies, seeking to channel resources and financial investment to improve global food security, in collaboration with un agencies, emerging countries and international organisations.
the european union must do more to ensure that governments in developing countries create an enabling environment for better child nutrition by strengthening policies and coordination between national plans and strategies.
i am glad that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the fight against tax evasion.
this is because the european union has the primary responsibility for applying the convention: is a necessary step to make the protection of biodiversity and endangered species more effective.
the preservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment are priorities of the union, as laid down in the treaties, together with the prudent and rational use of natural resources and the international promotion of measures to solve environmental problems.
we can only agree with the european union's accession to the washington convention, as the environment committee has done with virtually unanimous approval.
we also expect the european union to contribute effectively to a specific coordination programme for interpol's 'infraterra' initiative, in order to bring the nine most wanted environmental criminals, including the main culprits in the illegal trade in vulnerable species, to justice as soon as possible.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by joining the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, the eu is at last equipped with an important instrument for protecting biodiversity.
the eu's participation as a legal entity in this system of species protection can only reaffirm the prominent and responsible position that the eu assumes in promoting environmental sustainability.
we are therefore preparing to ratify an instrument which will strengthen the coherence and the negotiating weight of the european union in the international arena, in particular coherence with the lisbon treaty by giving the european commission full competence in the field of trade and the environment.
another step towards a stronger eu role in the world for sustainability and environmental responsibility.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union's accession to cites is of fundamental importance in ensuring the safeguarding of biodiversity.
by joining cites, the union will further strengthen its leadership in environmental, animal welfare and environmental policy, ensuring that international trade in endangered species does not undermine their survival at community level.
i am therefore convinced that accession must be seen as a logical and necessary step for the eu to be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in the framework of its environmental policy.
i would point out that the council, in its request for assent to parliament, referred only to article 192 of the treaties, the protection of the environment, and not to article 207, international trade.
i will add a few technical points, if i may, because not all fossil fuels are simply harmful to the environment and to health: some of them are even worse!
they're devastating to the environment and to health.
a study recently published in the journal atmospheric environment has shown that in the large oil sands and chemical processing area in canada, air samples were taken in which volatile organic chemicals were found to be up to 6 000 times higher than normal.
the levels of 1,3-butadiene and benzene, which are very potent carcinogens, were 322 times higher in the under-wind than in the over-wind, and in the population living in those areas, the medical records collected over a little more than ten years have shown a considerable increase in leukemia and non-hodgkin's lymphoma, especially as we approached the pollution peaks.
the commission proposal for the calculation of emissions does not, however, take any account of oil sands and shale gas.
ladies and gentlemen, you have been elected, for the most part, to defend the citizens and their own environment: but how can you still tolerate a commission that does such things?
it does not allow differentiation between the intensity of greenhouse gases and different raw materials and, consequently, neither does it allow the reporting of the actual emissions of individual fuels.
the new calculation methods proposed give canadian tar sands, for example, which are highly polluted, an average greenhouse gas intensity value lower than their actual emission value and will therefore favour their importation into the european market.
however, i believe that even in assessing the commission's proposal we must not forget the general context in which it is placed, namely that of energy security, which, following the recent events in russia and ukraine, cannot but be at the top of the european union's agenda.
i think, however, that the commission must continue to work to encourage the development of low-carbon fuels and innovative technologies that improve the environmental performance of fuel suppliers.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am asking that this directive be completely changed at european level and that tar sands be banned because of their destructive impact on the environment.
i ask that the environment be respected, since this is an environmentally protected island and a tourist-oriented island.
the proposal has developed with the identification of a shared scientific programme, a joint programming, which is based on two axes, two pillars, i would say, inextricably linked to each other: water resources and food systems, combined with safety, health and sustainability, are also at the heart of many european policies, and are also the subject of the forthcoming expo in milan, a world event held in europe.
research and innovation to be applied immediately in production systems by end users, primarily farmers, to improve the efficiency and sustainability of food production and water resources.
firstly, it goes without saying that any initiative will necessarily be built on – and avoid overlaps with – other ongoing initiatives in order to integrate efforts in a coherent way, to pool resources in a sustainable way and to take account of the long-term perspective.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
if you think the euro is a sustainable currency for your country, i would like to ask you whether the interest rate your country is now paying, which seems to me to be around 9%, is sustainable at a time when it is under pressure from the financial crisis, when germany, perhaps, is paying 0% or even negative rates.
is the euro sustainable without progress towards, for example, a single interest rate?
for this reason, as was already the case unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i voted in favour of repealing directive 93/5/eec.
‒ my vote in favour of this proposal is not only an act of confidence in mr la via, a colleague whom i respect and whose scientific expertise i appreciate, but also an act of duty towards the citizens who waste their time with bureaucracy.
this new legislature must see food safety as one of the priorities on the european environmental agenda, which is why i hope that the committee will enjoy the full political and scientific support of the member states, in particular by facilitating cooperation with the relevant national bodies on these issues.
the european union's accession to cites is a very important step, not so much because it becomes a full member of the convention, thus playing an active role within it, but rather because the union will be able to take a leading role at international level on environmental policy, especially for the protection of biodiversity where the european union has the most advanced legislation.
by joining cities, the union will further strengthen its leadership in animal protection and environmental policy, ensuring that international trade in endangered species does not undermine their survival at community and international level.
i believe that cites is a logical and necessary step in order to enable the european union to achieve the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
i also believe that joining cites is a logical and necessary step for the eu to pursue the objectives it has set itself in the wider context of its environmental policy.
the gaborone amendment, which entered into force at the end of 2013, also allows the european union to become a party to cites, thus allowing europe to speak with one voice in this international forum and contribute more effectively to the achievement of its objectives in full consistency with the general principles of our environmental policy.
i believe that the eu's accession to cites can also be an important opportunity to increase the international role of the convention, which has been contributing to the protection of biodiversity in the world for years.
in addition, accession to cites is a necessary step to enable the eu to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
it is of paramount importance to prevent the commercial exploitation of endangered species and to restrict trade in animals and plants in order to ensure the safeguarding of biodiversity.
‒ the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is a key instrument in the field of environmental protection.
it will help to achieve a number of strategic objectives, which are fully in line with community environmental policy.
the european union will thus be fully able to pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
‒ mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that it is of fundamental importance for the european union to have cites as an international instrument for protecting endangered species of wild fauna and flora by controlling international trade, so that it can pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
‒ considering that the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora is an important instrument for the preservation and protection of the planet's biodiversity and that accession will allow the eu to play its full role in environmental policy, i would like to express my vote in favour.
‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe that accession to cites is a logical and necessary step for the eu to be able to fully pursue the objectives it has set itself in its environmental policy.
in this particular case, as it is about the environment, it is all the more essential that the eu should speak with one voice so that it can make a stronger contribution to the protection of endangered species, which, as we know, are the "thermometer" of the health of our planet.
i hope that this vote will enable europe to continue its fight for the protection of the environment in all its forms with even greater conviction and that it will be able to become a world leader in this respect by setting a good example for other continents.
for the eu, this is a logical and almost obligatory step if it is to remain consistent with its often-repeated desire to protect the environment and the health of the planet.
morocco, as a country adhering to the eu neighbourhood policy, will be able to cooperate effectively with the european union in gnss research and will add value to efforts in the fields of energy and industrial production, bringing benefits to the scientific communities, businesses and citizens of both areas.
cooperation may cover all research, technological development and demonstration activities, including basic research, carried out in the following fields: − environment and climate, including earth observation, biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and manufacturing technologies, materials research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social sciences, science and technology policy, training and exchanges between researchers.
in addition, the agreement provides for cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively known as 'accompanying and horizontal' policies.
the agreement also envisages cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively known as 'accompanying and horizontal' policies.
‒ the purpose of the report is to establish a new legal framework allowing france to provide, until 31 december 2020, for partial or total exemptions from tax ('maritime duties') for a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions in order to compensate for the disadvantages of the outermost regions concerned (the great distance, the dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the local market and the low development of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development by determining the products to which partial or total tax exemptions may be applied.
‒ a number of council decisions authorised france to provide, until 1 july 2014, for partial or total exemptions from the 'maritime duties' on a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin), in order to compensate for the disadvantages of these areas (the great distance, the dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the local market and the low development of export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development.
‒ the 'sea taxes' are intended to provide partial or total exemptions from tax for a range of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin), with the aim of compensating for all the disadvantages linked to the category of outermost regions, such as the great distance, the lack of raw materials and energy, a small local market and low exports, with the aim of helping competitiveness and socioeconomic development.
‒ as we know, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to provide support for workers in companies that are suffering from the adverse economic climate and major structural changes in world trade, especially in this phase of a serious generalised crisis.
i am voting in favour of this resolution in order to facilitate the reintegration of the 551 workers into sustainable and future-oriented economic sectors.
although the egf is not a decisive instrument for the productive and entrepreneurial environment, it nevertheless makes it possible to provide funding for the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market and therefore the vote on this resolution is in favour.
air pollution is the cause of over 400 000 000 premature deaths every year and what is the juncker commission doing?
we lose about 600 million tons of materials in waste every year, which could be recycled or reused.
these materials could bring net savings of €600 billion each year, while reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 2% to 4% per year.
the waste directive is withdrawn from its investment plan.
are our health care systems rife with waste and fraud that weigh heavily on the pockets of citizens?
we want initiatives for culture, for the social economy, the withdrawal of the foundations and finally, in relation to the specific points, i would like to refer to those environmental objectives which my colleagues have already mentioned.
today, the migration is mainly of people fleeing war or climate disasters.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president junker, mr vice-president timmerman, as chairman of the environment committee of this parliament and on behalf of the coordinators of all the political groups, i express to you my personal and colleagues' deep dissatisfaction with the withdrawal of the legislative package on the circular economy and the similar initiative on the air quality package.
mr vice-president, we have invited you to the committee on the environment on several occasions and we are still awaiting your visit.
if we do not introduce throughout the union the crime of mafia-style criminal association and the most serious forms of confiscation, if we do not abolish banking secrecy and tax havens, if we do not punish vote-trading and environmental crimes, then in the end the omertà will win and we will all lose.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and even more clamorous has been the scrapping of complex and long-awaited legislative proposals such as on waste and air quality.
this is not the way europe can give its citizens a signal of a change and a new impetus: we therefore call on the commission to be more ambitious and to come up with more advanced legislative proposals on employment and environmental sustainability.
we think about people who are suffering and why people are not suffering, we need investment, growth, sustainability and jobs.
the best response to lima and to the fears that we are too timid about the fight against climate change will be to fund with determination projects that accompany the energy transition in europe.
mr president, i ask my colleagues to delete the city of taranto from paragraph 15, because taranto is the most polluting plant in europe, which continues to violate european directives, worsening environmental and health disasters and burdening local economies.
i voted against this measure which, at a very particular historical moment such as the one we are going through, confirms europe's will to continue to intervene in areas such as moldova which are traditionally under russian influence, in order to further destabilise the political climate.
the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 introducing new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums is a support measure for the republic of moldova in its difficult social and financial environment.
i therefore support the proposal for a regulation introducing new duty-free tariff quotas for fresh apples, fresh table grapes and fresh plums (the main products of moldovan fruit growers), because it will help the country in a difficult social and financial environment.
i voted against the mobilisation of eur 2.8 billion from the contingency margin for 2014 because i believe that if waste like that of the double seating of parliament had been eliminated, there would have been no need to use it.
draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources and of the vat and gni own resources balances, a reduction in the budget appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, and an increase in the budget appropriations allocated to the european ombudsman.
the appropriations provided for in the flexibility instrument are intended to support the start of a favourable economic environment for cyprus, which appears essential to ensure stability on the island, also in view of the delicate historical situation at the moment, with the recent resumption of the process of reunification between the turkish cypriot and greek cypriot parts.
i am not in any way opposed to the community budget, but the approach adopted is certainly not sustainable.
i find particularly agreeable the reference to the need to reform the european union's own resources system, with the aim of finally overcoming the current impasse in the budget negotiations, and to the need to reform efforts in the coming years to reduce unpaid invoices to a sustainable level.
— i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i think it goes in the right direction in order to protect our environment.
in particular, i believe that there is a need for further revision of the method used to calculate the levels of greenhouse gas emissions from fuels and other non-biological energy sources.
this is to take account of the expected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity levels and fuels derived from other emerging raw materials.
i think that the colleagues who have raised this issue have made some very good arguments for the simple purpose of opposing a sector which, at the moment, produces energy for our daily needs and in particular for a large part of our travel.
if we want a more environmentally sustainable economy, the conversation needs to be much broader.
the european union has climate and energy targets to be met by 2050, including decarbonisation, which means reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
to tackle the problem of pollution, it would be necessary not only to improve the quality of fuels but also to develop a european strategy to encourage the use of new, sustainable, competitive and safe energy technologies.
- the commission directive on calculation methods and reporting requirements for the quality of petrol and diesel fuel has the ultimate objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 6% by 2020. it also lays down the methodology for calculating emissions, the exchange of information and the administrative burden for member states and fuel suppliers.
the commission proposal does not allow for the differentiation between the intensity of greenhouse gases and different raw materials and, consequently, neither the reporting of the actual emissions of individual fuels, with an average value that is 40% lower than that of the 2011 proposal for a directive, which was never adopted due to the opposition of the council.
in particular, my group believes that the proposed implementation is detrimental to the overall objective of the directive, which is to reduce co2 emissions and move towards a carbon-free energy supply in europe.
i hope at least that the proposal, as adopted, will enable and facilitate the achievement of the 6% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from fuels by 2020.
in writing.
ladies and gentlemen, the revised directive 98/70/ec on the quality of petrol and diesel fuel requires suppliers to report annually on life cycle greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy from fuels and energy supplied in each member state and to reduce by at least 6% by 31 december 2020 the life cycle greenhouse gas intensity of fuels supplied compared to the community average of emissions per unit of energy produced during the life cycle of fossil fuels in 2010. the methodology used to calculate greenhouse gas emission levels from fuels and other non-biological energy sources should be further revised to take into account the expected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity levels and fuels derived from other emerging raw materials.
- i have decided to vote against this because i believe that this measure is causing more damage to the european petrochemical industry than the environmental benefits it seeks to achieve.
the conservative group, which tabled this resolution to oppose a commission act, had good intentions, which however clash with practice: the proposed reduction is not expected to have the environmental impact that the conservative colleagues fear, according to the studies, and it is therefore not worth changing this rule which, on the contrary, allows businesses and consumers a secure food supply.
the unresolved palestinian question, with its decades-long stagnation and the particular odiousness of the conflicts which have resulted from it, is clearly a weak point for the credibility of the effectiveness of the instruments of international legal theory and for the prestige of the action of politicians and diplomats who, above all through the opinion of public opinion, receive the energy necessary to transform their virtuous intuitions into concrete and operative actions.
coexistence based on mutual recognition is the only solution that can guarantee peace and stability in the region, and the basis for calming the climate of tension that is building up throughout the region.
we believe, however, that social and environmental dumping must be combated and counteracted and that serious ecological conversions must be carried out for those plants, such as taranto, which continue to sow death and cancer.
we therefore call for a specific plan for steel, which pays the utmost attention to worker safety and environmental protection, and for a package of financial instruments which will enable the steel industry to regain its leading role and to be competitive on the international scene.
the commission and parliament have been discussing the need for a recovery in manufacturing, with the aim of bringing industry's share of gdp to 20% by 2020. i support and am among the signatories of this resolution which calls for the eu to act on the steel industry to start to give substance to the commitments announced on the industrial front, including actions in areas such as competitiveness, economic and social costs of restructuring and mergers, management of the weight taken by the sector to achieve the eu's climate and environmental objectives.
the commission therefore needs to provide accurate information on the balance between steel demand and supply at european and global level and to identify the major social, economic and environmental challenges in order to develop medium and long-term initiatives to support the steel industry in europe.
the eu was created to share steel (along with the then-mainstream energy source) and what it means: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
high energy prices, the effects of low demand and overcapacity in a globalised steel market also contributed to the hindrance of competitiveness.
a motion on the steel industry cannot ignore the protection of health, the environment and local economies.
on the one hand, we encourage training and social protection, research and innovation, the use of scrap metal and electric furnaces, the production of steam and gas for energy, and on the other hand, we do not want to support environmental taxation, the participation of ngos and environmental associations in decision-making processes, and we do not commit ourselves to combating social and environmental dumping by adequately protecting our standards.
there is no mention of the importance of complying with european environmental directives and in particular the polluter pays principle, or of the need to abandon obsolete plants or parts of them which pose a serious danger to the health of workers, the local population and the environment.
the priority is to make the european steel industry strategic again, preserving its know-how and skills and boosting its sustainability and innovation.
the steel industry must therefore innovate to ensure that environmental, health and safety standards are met, which are the foundation for a new era of sustainable reindustrialisation in europe.
the challenge facing the steel industry is very ambitious, since it must combine the protection of workers from the risks of pollution on the one hand and european firms from competition which is putting them behind in the world market and the general fall in demand for steel due to the general reduction in investment on the other.
europe must therefore set out a roadmap to put the steel industry back at the centre of industrial policy and transform it into a sustainable and profitable sector.
therefore, it is necessary for the commission to use part of its investment package to develop and disseminate the best available technologies in order to implement large-scale industrial projects, including energy efficiency and low carbon projects.
a coherent and organic approach is needed to revive production and encourage the sector, starting with new regulatory instruments that modernise competition rules, speed up social support and restructuring measures and safeguard european competitiveness despite the necessary and due commitments to reduce co2 emissions.
however, steel will play a key role in relation to new sustainable industrial solutions, especially in the process of urbanisation.
the recovery also depends on the revival of its strong manufacturing industry, in which the competitive and sustainable steel industry plays a crucial role.
these are essential conditions for the global competitiveness of european industrial policy, while respecting the high social and environmental standards to which the union has committed itself.
we also call on the commission to produce accurate information on the balance between steel demand and supply at european and world level and to identify the major social, economic and environmental challenges in order to develop medium and long-term initiatives to support the steel industry in europe.
ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interest of the whole european union to maintain a sustainable, resource-efficient and competitive steel sector, as it is the backbone of many important forms of industrial production.
the eu steel industry is a major source of employment and the creation of a stable environment for private capital investment is of crucial importance, together with an efficient use of eu resources.
the steel industry, however, is suffering both from a substantial fall in demand and from very high energy costs: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
to meet this challenge, an action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry is needed.
this resolution, for which i voted in favour and which i supported, lays the foundations for a european industrial policy which safeguards the value of our know-how, avoids the relocation of our companies, and invests in high technology to produce high quality, safe and sustainable products.
it will also have to create external conditions favourable to the development of the sector, such as lower energy costs.
the european steel industry is an example of excellence, and we cannot afford to be overtaken by countries which do not respect social and environmental standards and which apply unfair competition.
payment of co2 emission allowances for steel from non-eu countries (as opposed to relocation of emissions); investment in low carbon economy from the proceeds of the sale of free carbon allowances; no further investment in css; use of technologies that recycle waste energy for steam and electricity production.
however, the resolution does not present tipping points for environmental and health criticality, does not support economic activities other than steel mills that coexist with them territorially, does not take into account the changed globalized landscape and overcapacity, and protects unsustainable and non-convertible plants.
in particular: no amendments were passed to protect health, the environment, the participation of ngos in decision-making processes, surrounding local economies other than steel production, the 'polluter pays' principle; ilva di taranto is one of the steelworks to be preserved whose production capacity must be guaranteed; the commission has not considered the infringement of eu competition rules (ast terni case).
i am therefore particularly pleased that the commission is being asked to examine the feasibility of a carbon adjustment at the border, through the payment of ets allowances for steel from third countries, in order to create a level playing field in terms of co2 emissions and to limit the phenomenon of carbon leakage.
- i abstained on the final vote because, although i was aware of the importance of safeguarding jobs, our amendments were not taken into account, which were aimed not so much at restoring heavy industry as at ensuring that european support was directed towards the conversion of these plants, so as not to favour employment at the expense of serious health and environmental consequences.
the joint undertaking will also be responsible for the implementation of the eu-us joint undertaking for the protection of the marine environment, which is a joint undertaking of the european union and the member states.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the enormous flow of migrants facing europe makes it necessary to adopt new multilateral cooperation mechanisms with the countries of origin and transit of migrants, towards proposals that should be sustainable and lasting.
we could talk about the humanitarian situation in darfur, a crisis that is far from being resolved, or the fact that the international criminal court has recently suspended the prosecution of war crimes committed in the region and consequently of president omar hassan al-bashir, bitterly noting the lack of initiative on the part of the united nations in this regard and therefore the waste of resources in keeping this prosecution open.
the regulation of the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (spg+), to which the republic of the philippines has applied to participate, sets out the obligation of third countries to implement the objectives adopted by regional fisheries organisations, one of which is the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing.
if we want to ask our fishermen to make efforts on sustainability, we cannot turn a blind eye to other countries, like the philippines, which do not respect the rules.
i voted against the objection put forward by some colleagues to deny the philippines the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance (spg+).
we cannot set a precedent for this, especially in view of the efforts we have asked our fishermen to make in the area of sustainability.
the philippine government is called upon to prevent and eradicate this practice, not only to ensure environmental sustainability, but also to protect competition and protect european consumers.
let us not forget that the fight against illegal fishing is one of the cornerstones of the european union's action to prevent the overexploitation of fish stocks, to safeguard marine habitats and thus to ensure sustainable fishing.
this is a very important vote because it will help to modernise the economy, stabilise european union investment in georgia and contribute to a better business environment for small and mediumsized enterprises.
i hope that georgia will soon align itself with the eu acquis, which will contribute to the modernisation of the economy, stabilisation of eu investment in georgia and a better and more dynamic business environment.