it is particularly important to discuss this issue at european union level, as the economic crisis has been a severe test for the sustainability of social protection systems.
in this context, the report stresses that the objective of ensuring the well-being of its citizens cannot be achieved without sustainable and adequate social protection systems that promote social inclusion, social justice and income and quality social and health care services accessible to all.
on the contrary, they must be developed to ensure maximum coverage, sustainability and adequacy.
the priorities of the lithuanian presidency include energy security, the eastern partnership, strengthening the eu's external borders, and cooperation between the baltic sea countries.
i think we have achieved the objectives of the presidency, which were energy security, integrated border management, the european union's baltic sea strategy, the eastern neighbourhood policy.
− i voted in favour of this resolution, which obliges commercial vehicle manufacturers to produce greener vehicles and also reduces the maximum average co2 emissions of new commercial vehicles from 203 g/km to 147 g/km, to be applied from 2020. global temperatures could rise to critical levels if fossil fuel combustion and the production of co2-emitting cars continue at this rate.
special loans are an important means of encouraging the introduction of low-emission vehicles on the market and providing incentives for manufacturers to develop low-carbon technologies.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is parliament's acceptance of the commission's proposal to confirm the ambitious environmental targets set back in 2011 to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
the environmental objectives were reaffirmed in parliament also because there have been no changes in environmental or economic conditions since the 147 g/km target was agreed which would justify a change in the target value and because manufacturers need planning certainty to take account of the long development cycle of light commercial vehicles.
− i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
this scheme will expire in 2018. these credits are included in the commission proposal for co2 emissions from passenger cars but not for co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles.
− the european union is one of the most progressive regions in reducing co2 emissions and thus contributing to pollution reduction.
it is understood that passenger cars are not and cannot be an exception to reduce co2 emissions, but at the same time i agree that the requirements must be realistic and therefore the co2 emissions targets must not be changed.
it is important that we not only be ambitious in this area but also understand the real potential of the industry to reduce co2 emissions from passenger cars, as it is necessary to remain competitive in the global market.
it is essential that the target of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles is met by 2020. i believe that this will stimulate research and innovation in the automotive sector and thus promote environmentally sustainable growth and job creation, increase the competitiveness of eu industry in the world, reduce the eu's dependence on imported oil.
it is therefore essential to support more effectively innovative efficient technologies, to continue to implement eco-innovation and to apply an excess emissions tax to the
in writing.
one of the innovations proposed by parliament in the area of consumer protection in the coming year is the creation of websites providing consumers with comparable, reliable and easily accessible data on prices, quality of services and sustainability.
i support the proposals made to include a clear indication that the labelling of aromatised wine products may refer to the ecological character of the products used in their production.
−in order to reduce global co2 emissions at the lowest cost, it is essential to implement carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies.
these technologies may continue to use fossil fuels, but would have a lower global warming impact.
carbon capture and storage (ccs) is currently the only large-scale demonstration technology available for capturing carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels to produce low-carbon electricity.
the eu was hoping to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) five years ago, but its measures have not produced significant results in this area.
the main problem remains the lack of a specific business model in the eu and its member states to provide investors with a clear regulatory and funding environment to develop these technologies efficiently.
i agree that ccs technologies must be integrated into the eu's long-term energy strategy, with clear financing mechanisms and a level playing field for different low-carbon energy technologies and fair competition between them.
− i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the possible direction and the necessary measures to be taken by the european parliament to encourage the accelerated deployment of carbon capture and storage technology in the european union.
the deployment of this technology will be crucial to achieving a significant reduction in global co2 emissions by 2050 at the lowest cost, as it would reduce emissions from large industrial installations and allow the continued use of some fossil fuels with a lower environmental impact.
the report also proposes to require eu legislation to require each member state to publish indicative strategy papers explaining how they will achieve the target of reducing co2 emissions by almost 20% by 2050.
in writing.
− i supported the need to develop an eu-wide strategy for carbon capture and storage (ccs) and identify sources of funding.
five years ago, the european union was expected to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage.
however, the majority of the eur 1 billion allocated to ccs pilot projects under the european energy programme for economic recovery in 2009 has not yet been spent and will not be reallocated.
the main problem remains the absence of a specific business model in the eu and its member states that would provide investors with a clear regulatory and funding environment to develop these technologies efficiently.
i believe that ccs technologies must be integrated into the eu's long-term energy strategy and that clear funding mechanisms must be established.
− we have been discussing issues related to these technologies since 2009. i then raised the question of the effective protection of the environment through the use of ccs technologies.
on the other hand, i would like to reiterate my point made earlier that we should not talk about these technologies in the first place, but about reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
in particular, the deployment of capture and storage technology is essential to reduce global co2 emissions by 2050 at the lowest cost.
it should be noted that the application of this technology will not only reduce emissions from large industrial installations, but will also allow the continued use of some fossil fuels with a reduced global warming impact.
the absence of ccs in a long-term energy strategy will severely constrain efforts to combat climate change at national, union and global levels.
it is important that the commission and the member states make greater efforts to remove the main regulatory, financial and social barriers to the use of carbon capture and storage technology.
member states should be prepared to actively ensure the development of this technology as well as the proper observance of environmental standards.
− i voted in favour, as the economic downturn has reduced health budgets in member states and it is therefore necessary to find ways to increase the efficiency and sustainability of health systems.
the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 highlights the need for inclusive growth, which empowers citizens through, inter alia, employment, investment in skills, the fight against poverty and the modernisation of labour markets and social protection.
the measure should also be sustainable in the long term and based on the principle of voluntary participation.
the economic and financial crisis has brought a number of changes and is forcing us to look for new ways of increasing employment while maintaining the stability and sustainability of social protection systems.
in the current economic climate, national, local and regional budgets are increasingly burdened.
in the current economic climate, national, local and regional budgets are increasingly burdened and, as a result, cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for many member states and regions.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on plastic waste in the environment.
the european plastics industry has an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion and employs 1.54 million people, but the data on waste from this industry is still not consolidated and ranges from 25 million tonnes of waste (european commission data in 2008) to 13 million tonnes (european environment agency data in 2010).
i believe that the plastic waste in the environment has a direct negative impact on both human health and the environment itself.
the world is accumulating huge amounts of plastic that have been around for centuries and are damaging the environment.
in addition, the eu has no specific rules for plastic waste and common waste legislation is poorly implemented in eu countries.
it is therefore essential that at least 80% of plastic waste is collected and sorted.
only a quarter of plastic waste is recycled.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a european strategy to reduce plastic waste in the environment.
today, the eu plastics industry employs 1.6 million people and global plastics production could triple by 2050. however, data on waste from this industry are still not precise and uniform from 25 million tonnes of waste to 13 million tonnes.
in the absence of reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, energy use and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop targeted and effective policies, in particular actions, against illicit waste streams.
also reduce the use of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags and ensure that no waste is sent to landfill that can be recycled and reused by 2020. i support the proposals put forward to provide for rules that would allow the characteristics of products placed on the market to be clearly defined: consumers need to know whether the plastic they buy is recycled, compostable, biodegradable or recyclable to facilitate sorting.
− i voted for this report because it is a way for parliament to draw attention to the problems of plastic waste in the environment.
the european plastics industry has an annual turnover of around eur 300 billion and employs 1,54 million people, but data on waste from this industry are still not consolidated and properly assessed.
in the absence of reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, energy use and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to develop targeted and effective policies, in particular actions, against illicit waste streams.
clearly, the environmental impact of plastics is still underestimated.
in this report, parliament also calls for eu legislation to regulate the management and recycling of plastic waste, to provide for relevant targets and to set stricter implementation of existing rules.
currently, 40% of waste is made up of packaging, although the only eu legislation currently in force since 1994 stipulates that only 22.5% of plastic must be collected.
− i voted in favour of the proposal as it proposes to remove the most hazardous plastics from the market by 2020 and to reduce the use of plastic bags, to reduce the use of single-use, non-recyclable, non-biodegradable and non-compostable plastic bags, and to ensure that no waste is sent to landfills by 2020 that can be recycled and reused.
it is important to raise public awareness through public information campaigns to reduce the amount of plastic in the environment.
- plastic waste one of the longest-lived in the environment.
this requires not only a review of existing eu legislation but also the effective functioning of plastic waste collection systems in the member states.
in supporting this resolution, i therefore call on the commission to take more stringent measures to monitor and ensure the proper functioning of member states' plastic waste collection systems.
they are important for the regions concerned and for the rural economy, and promote sustainable tourism development and help to increase the competitiveness of the regions.
these signs promote sustainable tourism development and help to increase the competitiveness of regions.
draft opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
with regard specifically to the directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, it should be noted that the separate regulation of the provision of municipal services has been maintained.
i hope that this agreement will contribute, above all, to russia's efforts to move closer to international and european standards in the fields of environment and nuclear safety, and to cooperate in the search for scientific and technological solutions to problems that have an impact on the eu.
i agree with the rapporteur that while trade and investment are very important, cooperation must also cover areas such as human rights and the environment.
the rapidly developing asean countries, which have been relatively successful in coping with the global economic crisis, face a variety of challenges, including the consequences of extreme natural disasters, high levels of air pollution, which can become an unconventional security problem.
in other words, contracting authorities will have to take account not only of the price of the bid but also of the economic, environmental and social benefits.
the new version of the directive introduces certain innovations aimed at ensuring efficient and socially sustainable procurement procedures, such as the exclusion of any economic operator from participation in a procurement procedure who has not fulfilled the obligations under social, labour and environmental law laid down in national and eu legislation and in collective agreements concluded in compliance with union law.
the aim of this legislation is to strike a balance between simplified public procurement rules and sound and efficient procedures based on innovation and sustainability criteria for the award of contracts, while ensuring greater participation by smes and procurement procedures conducted online.
− i supported the proposal as the reformed eu public procurement rules package will allow the public sector to choose not only the cheapest bid when purchasing goods or services, but to assess its overall economic, environmental and social viability.
the preliminary agreement reached with the eu council in july 2013 on three public procurement directives (the 'classical directive', the 'utilities directive' and the 'concessions directive') will allow public authorities to assess the environmental and social benefits and costs of the proposals.
i was the shadow rapporteur on this matter in the committee on industry, research and energy.
− i voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to modernise the public procurement directives, but this would require a balance between simplifying the rules on the one hand and fair and efficient procedures based on award criteria linked to innovation and sustainability on the other, as well as ensuring greater participation by smes and generalising public procurement online.
efforts should be made to exploit the full potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable growth, job creation and social inclusion.
i believe that these amendments create a more favourable environment for negotiations with third countries, while at the same time ensuring more favourable conditions for trade.
− the conservation of biodiversity is one of the key objectives of eu environmental policy.
− i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen eu industry by encouraging investment in new technologies, improving the business environment and access to markets and facilitating access to finance.
in 2012, the commission presented a communication on industrial empowerment, which proposes to create the right conditions to stimulate investment and focus on six priority areas: clean manufacturing technologies, markets for biological products, sustainable industrial policy, construction and raw materials, clean vehicles and smart electricity grids.
− i supported the proposal because of the need to strengthen eu industry by encouraging investment in new technologies, improving the business environment and access to markets and facilitating access to finance.
the right conditions need to be created to encourage investment and to focus on six priority areas with huge potential for economic growth and job creation in europe: smart, clean manufacturing technologies, markets for biological products, sustainable industrial policy, construction and raw materials, clean transport including ships and smart electricity grids.
the development of sustainable business models should in particular support smes and the traditional manufacturing sectors.
the principle of fair trade, based on mutual respect for social, environmental and cultural norms and standards relating to respect for human rights, must be strictly respected throughout the eu in international trade.
we have long been concerned about the business environment and the protection of foreign investment.
however, there is cause for concern that in the last few years there has been an increase in cases of late transposition into national law, in particular in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights in the areas of the environment, the internal market, transport and taxation.
in the light of technological progress, existing provisions should be kept under review and adapted to changing conditions, while ensuring the necessary level of health and safety protection in the case of exposure to hazardous substances and mixtures in the working environment.
this information shall include oil, natural gas, electricity, biofuels and carbon dioxide emissions from the use of these resources.
under the regulation, energy companies are required to provide their member state with the necessary data.
the commission would be kept accurately and regularly informed of investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to fulfil its energy tasks.
it will carry out every two years a study of the evolution and prospects of the structure of the eu energy system in the various sectors, as well as any other special studies required.
this regulation provides that member states agree to provide the commission with information on their investments in energy infrastructure every two years in order to achieve the objectives of the eu energy policy and the establishment of the eu internal energy market.
i do not think that the new requirements will impose an additional administrative or financial burden on energy companies.
it is also appropriate to extend the scope of this regulation to include coal as an important element in the energy mix with implications for eu energy policy.
it is also essential to provide information not only on projects within the eu but also on infrastructure investments in third countries that have an impact on the european energy market.
it is worth noting that the production of energy by smaller entities will become an important part of the eu's energy production, and it is therefore appropriate to reduce the threshold related to the capacity of onshore wind power plants.
- i voted in favour of this proposal because, with rising energy prices, climate change and new social and economic challenges, all eu regions will have to find ways to ensure a stable and secure supply of energy that is affordable for all citizens, while respecting environmental and sustainability criteria.
the renewable energy sector has weathered the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as in coastal and rural areas.
- the development of smart grids is essential not only for the development and promotion of renewable energy sources across the eu, but also at local and regional levels.
good practice shows that energy independence of individual settlements is possible through the use of smart grids.
- the european union must continue to expand and make better use of existing renewable energy sources in order to become independent of foreign energy suppliers.
however, in many regions, the most feasible indicators have already been achieved and we are approaching the limit of the capacity of the existing infrastructure to incorporate green energy into the electricity transmission grids.
the report shows how eu regions can become energy exporters rather than energy importers.
i will note that the main causes of unfair trade are artificially distorted prices of raw materials and energy resources.
- i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish cooperation between the european union and greenland and denmark for the period 2014-2020. it will replace the agreement covering the period 2006-2013. the agreement covers the main areas of cooperation: education and training, minerals, energy, tourism and culture, research and food supply.
it is important that natural resources are used in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria.
the areas of cooperation covered by the agreement are: education and training, minerals, energy, tourism and culture, research and food supply.
however, it is necessary to take all precautionary measures to ensure that greenland's natural resources are used in accordance with strict environmental sustainability criteria in order to protect the fragile ecosystem of the region.
over the past decade, europe's land temperatures have risen by an average of 1.3 degrees celsius compared to pre-industrial temperatures, while the global climate has warmed by 0.8 degrees celsius.
without adaptation, the eu will suffer annual losses of €100 billion in 2020 and €250 billion in 2050 due to the impacts of climate change.
the european commission has put forward a two-part package to tackle this problem: an eu strategy for adaptation to climate change and a green paper on the prevention of natural and man-made disasters.
the documents set out the framework and measures for implementing the eu's preparedness for the current and future impacts of climate change, and open a wide-ranging public debate on the adequacy and sufficiency of existing safeguards.
i support the proposals set out to encourage all member states to develop comprehensive climate change adaptation strategies and to provide financial support to strengthen climate change adaptation capacity.
it is important to integrate climate change adaptation into policies in vulnerable sectors such as agriculture, fisheries and cohesion.
at present, eu producers often have to compete with much cheaper products imported from countries with much lower energy prices and labour standards.
the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a level playing field between non-compliant products and economic operators.
the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a level playing field between non-compliant products and economic operators.
the new legal framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates a more consistent implementation of technical standards this will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring a uniform approach to non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as a uniform assessment of notified bodies across the eu market.
the proposal aims to restructure firms in difficulty and to create a favourable business environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on the future development of european climate and energy policy.
i agree with the rapporteurs that the greatest challenge will be to achieve a successful balance between climate protection, affordable energy prices, security of supply and industrial competition.
a recent impact assessment of the strategy published by the european commission shows that its implementation would create one million new jobs and significantly reduce the eu's dependence on imported energy sources.
the €573 billion paid by eu states in 2011 for the import of fossil fuel resources could be used to stimulate the production of green energy and energy saving mechanisms.
it is important to note that the lithuanian population, like the rest of europe, has clearly expressed its support for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency.
in the latest eurobarometer survey in lithuania, 53% of respondents believe that renewable energy sources should be given priority, with 25% giving priority to improving energy efficiency.
only 15% would prefer nuclear energy and 10% would prefer fossil fuels.
this would create a visible, tangible and sustainable partnership, which is a community of values created in the long term.
the objective of this proposal is to reduce co2 emissions from new vehicles.
the emissions target for the new car fleet is 160 g co2/km from 2006, 130 g co2/km from 2015 and 95 g co2/km from 2020. i believe that it was necessary to provide clarity and predictability for the transport sector by setting specific and defined objectives, giving the sector greater certainty and clear legal regulation in planning long-term investment in sustainable technologies and ensuring competitiveness.
it should be based on the emissions that need to be reduced in line with the union's long-term climate change objectives and should accelerate the development of cost-effective technologies for reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars.
i welcome the commission's report and its proposal for standards that are consistent with the union's long-term climate change objectives for 2050 in a cost-effective manner and that ensure continued leadership of the european union in fuel efficiency and co2 emissions.
- i voted in favour of this report because it supports the regulation setting out the ways in which the target of reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars by 2020 can be achieved.
- i am pleased that the european parliament has finally adopted a coordinated position on co2 emissions from new cars.
it is, of course, regrettable that the negotiations on this agreement have taken too long, have not always been very transparent and have resulted in certain concessions that are not in the interests of the environment.
however, i welcome the agreement itself, as the new standards, which will come into force in less than 10 years, will allow for further reductions in air pollution from passenger cars.
the regulation represented a major revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules for the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
- i voted in favour of this report because it supports the correction of technical errors and unintended consequences of the regulation on the placing of biocidal products on the market and their use adopted in 2012. the biocidal products regulation has represented an important and fundamental revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products by harmonising the rules for the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
- accurate scientific data on the environmental impact of regulated products and technologies is one of the key factors determining the development of eu environmental policy.
legislation adopted by the eu institutions must be based on scientific evidence and any errors in this must be regarded as a threat to the environment and human health.
i therefore support the european parliament's request to include in the specific recommendations for the eu and the eu as a whole, including the recommendations for economic adjustment programmes, the issue of not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms to promote real, sustainable and socially balanced growth, employment, increased competitiveness and increased convergence.
i voted in favour of this report because it calls for more than just austerity policies, but for investments that will ensure the economic growth of the eu countries and the implementation of sustainable reforms.
the european parliament also called for more investment to promote sustainable growth and the creation of quality and sustainable jobs.
the plant breeding industry is one of the most important elements in the productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and our environment.
the parliament therefore stressed the crucial importance of an efficient and competitive plant breeding industry to respond to future challenges such as future food needs and climate change.
i agree with the provisions in the adopted document on the possibility of preserving the biodiversity of crops and on the need to devote more attention and resources to the selection of new varieties of peas.
parliament agreed with the commission that the services, financial services, transport, energy and digital market sectors remained crucial to the full integration of the single market.
some member states are lagging far behind in areas such as innovation, research and technological development, it services and broadband, energy and capacity building.
cohesion policy is the main mechanism for implementing the eu strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 and it is therefore necessary to assess the achievement of the objectives of the previous programming period (2007-2013).
- the 7th and 8th progress reports on the eu cohesion policy and the strategic report 2013 on programme implementation 2007-2013 tackle the issue of regional development and the best ways for it to increase cohesion and economic growth within europe and achieve sustainability.
the proposal aims to open up new areas of investment policy in the outermost regions and to create opportunities for their sustainable development.
in the context of the implementation of the 'horizon 2020' programme, the 'energy 2020' strategy, the life+ and erasmus programmes, the trans-european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, the outermost regions should no longer be separated from the priorities and objectives of the programmes.
the aim of this parliament's report is to propose a different approach to the vision that has been set out and is now coming to fruition, so that investment in the outermost regions can be extended to new areas and can be developed in a sustainable way.
in the context of the implementation of the 'horizon 2020' programme, the 'energy 2020' strategy, the life+ and erasmus programmes, the trans-european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, it is proposed that the outermost regions should no longer be separated from priorities and objectives.
the support of the outermost regions by the eu can be beneficial for the whole eu as it can create a basis for overcoming the challenges that the eu is facing now in terms of sustainability and regional development.
the text aims to strengthen political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation, and to promote sustainable development in both regions, by promoting a development partnership involving all stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector.
the agreement also seeks to improve cooperation in the field of migration and to pave the way for new initiatives with common objectives and a common framework in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons.
the text aims to strengthen political dialogue and the process of economic cooperation, and to promote sustainable development in both regions, by promoting a development partnership involving all stakeholders, including civil society and the private sector.
the agreement also seeks to improve cooperation in the field of migration and to pave the way for new initiatives with common objectives and a common framework in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, illegal immigration, the fight against terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons.
although the cooperation agreement is broader in scope, covering various aspects such as political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, cultural exchanges, cooperation in education and training, consumer protection, health protection, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the fields of environment and biodiversity, participation of civil society in cooperation, cooperation on gender equality, cooperation involving indigenous peoples and other central american ethnic groups, this document is aimed at obtaining parliament's consent only on the issues mentioned in article 49 (3) of this agreement the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
the reasons for the special measures are: remoteness, isolation, small market and low exports, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products and sometimes even natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes.
the reasons for these special measures are remoteness, isolation, a small market and low exports, difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a few products and sometimes even natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions and earthquakes.
the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, has a so-called domino effect on production costs.
the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc.
the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc.
the ppp aims to strengthen eu-indonesia relations by developing political and economic cooperation in the fields of trade, industrial policy, energy, science, tourism, migration, counter-terrorism, etc.
in order to protect human life (staff, passengers, persons living near the line, third parties), public health and the environment, specific solutions to the issues related to the risks of dangerous or polluting goods are necessary on the basis of a proper and consistent interpretation of the relevant directives (1996/49/ec and 2008/68/ec).
the objective of the 'health for growth' programme is to develop innovative and sustainable health systems, to increase citizens' access to better healthcare and to improve health and prevent disease.
it is essential to pursue the objective of the digital agenda for europe to ensure that the digital single market based on high-speed internet delivers sustainable economic and social benefits.
reliable fiscal policy instruments are the key, but it is crucial for europe to start developing a sustainable growth trend that would strengthen its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensure that jobs are created.
a regulatory framework should be established to create investment vehicles that focus and channel reliable and sustainable funding from multiple sources towards long-term investment.
a global strategy is needed to address the key causes of conflict in mining and to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining.
the conclusion of this agreement is an important step for the eu in its efforts to improve sustainable forest management worldwide, halt deforestation and forest degradation, and promote systemic change in the forestry sector by rewarding conscientious operators who source their timber from legitimate and reliable sources and protecting them from unfair competition.
ships used on inland waterways are often old and would have an additional environmental benefit if they were refurbished or renewed.
it establishes an international framework to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity - sharing the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to conserve biological diversity and sustainable use of resources.
this important international agreement on biodiversity management is the result of lengthy negotiations following the adoption of the convention on biological diversity in rio de janeiro in 1992. it is an agreement at a time of global biodiversity crisis, which is deepening with the loss of living organisms.
to reverse this trend, it is necessary to mobilise the necessary resources, in particular financial resources, at international and local levels, in order to preserve biodiversity that is important to humans.
welcomes the eib's annual report 2012 and calls on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities of economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate policy and resource efficiency, by further developing new financial and non-financial instruments aimed at addressing short-term market failures and longer-term structural weaknesses in the eu economy;
in writing.
compared with the results of studies in other countries, it turned out that in lithuania women are more likely to experience violence not in public places, but in their own home, in the family environment!
the european parliament therefore stresses the importance of promoting the eu horticultural sector and enabling it to compete better on the world market by promoting innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation and measures to improve marketing.
unfortunately, we have to admit that energy dependence on russia and economic interests often take precedence over peace.
the eu needs to take decisive and effective decisions on energy relations with russia, and especially on arms trade.
however, much remains to be done to achieve sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society, to ensure greater social justice, to eradicate extreme poverty, to increase the level of basic education, to improve the education and position of girls and women, to prepare for the effects of climate change, and to strengthen regional cooperation in the fight against trafficking in human beings, drugs and goods.
however, it is essential that pakistan properly implements international conventions in the field of human rights, labour rights, as well as environmental and good governance.
the aquaculture sector also faces competition from imported products, low prices for certain species, strict environmental rules and conflicts over land use.
in order to strengthen bilateral cooperation, thailand needs to demonstrate strong respect for human rights, environmental protection, conservation and sustainable use of fisheries resources, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and compliance with eu sanitary and phytosanitary rules.
it should be noted that this programme contributes to enhancing the efficiency of the union's economy and ensuring the sustainability of public finances.
- i voted in favour of this report because we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
the montreal protocol, considered the most successful international environmental agreement, has achieved a global phase-out and reduction of the most ozone-depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons and hydrochlorofluorocarbons.
the european union (eu) has called for a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
therefore, additional legislation is needed now to prevent emissions from rising for the next few decades.
sustainable alternatives are already on the market and are being used, and have been shown to be safe, economical and energy efficient.
the phasing out of ozone-depleting substances will increase sustainable growth, stimulate innovation and reward european companies for investing in green technologies.
i believe that member states should make greater efforts to implement the roadmap to a competitive low carbon economy by 2050[n].
in order to reduce the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases, training programmes should include information on the technologies used to replace and reduce the use of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
in addition, the use of consistent and qualitative data is necessary for the effective monitoring of the emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
it should be noted that the gradual reduction of the quantity of hydrofluorocarbons that may be placed on the market is the most effective and cost-effective way of reducing the long-term emissions of those substances.
however, in the light of the complexity of the eu legislative procedure, even this text can be seen as a step forward in the transparency of the environmental impact assessment system.
- it should be noted that during the 28 years of application of the directive, it has been implemented with some success in terms of harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at union level.
it should be noted that the exploitation of these unconventional gas sources poses significant environmental and social risks.
the environmental impact assessment of projects must therefore be carried out on a case-by-case basis, as any human intervention is harmful to the environment, especially when drilling to depths of 2 kilometres or more, when using chemical agents to erode rocks and when using land resources for the construction and operation of drilling sites.
the 'one-stop-shop' approach to eia should be applied more effectively in the member states in order to align the procedure with possible environmental impact assessments.
i believe that member states should be allowed to set stricter rules to protect the environment and human health.
another important aspect is energy security and cooperation.
the availability and accessibility of audiovisual services for the general public is becoming a key issue in the integrated environment.
the european parliament draws attention to the economic potential of europe's arctic and sub-arctic regions and to various sectors such as tourism, maritime industry and shipping, renewable energy, environmental and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber industry, mining, transport services and communications, information technology, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods such as reindeer farming.
in particular, it is necessary to guarantee the sustainability of public finances and to ensure adequate social protection for citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
this would provide an opportunity to make an even greater contribution to the global challenges of poverty, food insecurity and climate change, with a view to accelerating the achievement of the agreed millennium development goals.
the commission's impact assessment system needs to be improved, ensuring that development becomes the fourth main element to be examined, alongside economic, social and environmental impacts.
the commission should identify specific measures for disadvantaged groups or categories of vulnerable workers to help member states better define key priorities, strategies and sustainable projects eligible for esf funding for the coming period 2014-2020.
in writing.
the eu, which is not a member of the un, has to define positions on the most important climate change, development cooperation, the protection of women's and children's rights and other key issues, guidelines that all eu member states participating in the un general assembly agree to follow.
i agree that eu external assistance funding for projects should be allocated to broadcasters that meet the highest standards of journalistic independence, accuracy and balance and that follow and promote eu values, and to projects that enable those broadcasters that fall short of the standards of independence, accuracy and sustainability to achieve those standards, given that in the future any funding should be conditional on performance evaluation using measurable criteria.
i believe that a competitive media environment is vital for developing society in various member states, including lithuania.
the commission will also carry out an assessment of the conditions and information for the labelling of air pollution and noise levels and the impact on consumers, and manufacturers will have to make efforts to provide information on vehicle noise levels at the point of sale and in technical promotional material.
only by creating a free, open and predictable trading system can we ensure sustainable growth and competitiveness in the eu.
the current pace of change and the uncertainties surrounding possible future trends call for further action to ensure that policy in the union continues to be conducted on the basis of sound knowledge of the state of the environment and of the possible response alternatives and their consequences.
they also lay down requirements for the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases and zoonoses, as well as for animal welfare, animal by-products, plant health and plant reproductive material, plant variety protection, the placing on the market and use of genetically modified organisms and plant protection products and the sustainable use of pesticides.
the general objective of union law in those areas is to contribute to a high level of human, animal and plant health throughout the food chain, a high level of consumer protection and information and a high level of environmental protection, while promoting competitiveness and job creation.
- i supported the agreement reached with the eu council to exempt international flights from the allowance for emissions (atl) scheme by 2017[n 1].
the eu's emissions trading system is fully justified.
although the aviation sector currently accounts for around 3% of all greenhouse gas emissions, its pollution is increasing rapidly.
it can be assumed that by 2020 by which time the eu has committed to reducing its emissions by 20% compared to 1990 the level will have increased by 63% 88%.
the problem of global warming can only be effectively addressed by an international approach.
neither carbon pollution nor climate change transcends national borders.
the same climate policy objectives should therefore be endorsed globally.
an open, transparent and integrated internal energy market is necessary to ensure competitive energy prices, security of supply, sustainability and the widespread deployment of efficient renewable energy, and member states are therefore encouraged to properly transpose, apply and monitor the third energy internal market legislative package.
it should be noted that improving the quality and protection of the rights and interests of the users of public utilities improves both the lives of the population and the living environment.
the measures envisaged will help to reduce dependence on oil and accelerate the reduction of co2 emissions from vehicles.
it should be noted that without eu support in sectors such as transport, it would not be possible to achieve the minimum necessary network expansion, increase the proportionate consumption of these fuels in the transport sector and thus reduce the negative environmental impact of transport.
i welcome the proposals as a necessary means of breaking europe's dependence on oil and increasing the diversification and security of energy supply.
it will also boost economic growth, enhance the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
it is essential that cabin profiling not only reduces fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, but also improves the driver's field of vision, thereby saving more lives in europe each year.
this parliament's report also sought to highlight its cost-effectiveness and energy and environmental efficiency, and to draw attention to the fact that this efficiency could be further improved.
although congestion in road transport is a problem with economic and environmental costs, the inland waterway network has a high capacity to absorb traffic and avoid congestion.
- i support the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the current regulation so that the reserve funds can be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create conditions for innovation and greater safety and environmental friendliness.
the legal certainty is a necessary precondition for attracting or promoting investment in the sector, thus ensuring the sustainable development of the inland waterway market.
in addition, cost-effectiveness and energy and environmental efficiency of inland waterway transport should be continuously improved.
- in the current economic climate, it is appropriate to increase the value of eu production once again.
ict-based solutions can also lead to a more energy-efficient health and social care system.
the union needs to create favourable conditions for investing in knowledge and innovation in order to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the main objective of the european programme for metrology innovation and research (empir) is to provide metrology solutions that support innovation and industrial competitiveness, as well as measurement technologies to address societal challenges such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy formulation and implementation.
i think it is appropriate to require large companies to regularly update and publish non-financial information at least on environmental, social and human rights issues, anti-corruption and bribery aspects.
attention should be drawn to the fact that the projected growth in traffic will lead to a steady increase in emissions, which is why it is essential to drastically reduce the environmental impact of air transport.
in order to improve the environmental impact of european aeronautical technologies and to ensure the international competitiveness of the european aeronautical industry, it is essential that there be greater coordination and coordination between 'clean skies 2' and 'horizon 2020'.
if europe is to achieve the objectives set out in the climate change and energy package, the eu aeronautical industry should develop innovative fuel-efficient technologies and competitive high-quality products.
the focus of this initiative on public health rather than on the readiness to compete in a competitive environment for biomedical research is welcome.
first, considering what is probably an important issue from both a consumer and an environmental perspective.
and as we know, plastic waste and its use cause a lot of environmental problems.
plastic waste is highly perishable, and its tiny particles pollute land, water and wildlife.
plant health is a key factor in ensuring sustainable and competitive agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
it is also essential to give priority to sustainable biological, physical and other non-chemical methods.
environmental damage should first be remedied at source and compensated by the polluter.
this supervision should ensure that products do not pose a risk to the health or safety of consumers or workers and that they comply with existing eu legislation, such as rules on energy efficiency, noise levels or emission limit values.
other objectives of this legislation are to encourage the emergence of new market participants in order to foster a competitive environment, reduce the cost of cross-border settlements and reduce counterparty risk.
in the past, the focus has been on reducing investor costs and improving efficiency, but in the post-crisis period financial regulators and policymakers have also focused on the post-crisis environment to ensure that our financial infrastructure minimises counterparty risk, is robust and meets the needs of end-investors.
- i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure the safety of ships and their crews and to avoid accidents at sea and pollution of the marine environment.
the new directive thus aims to strengthen the mechanisms for the implementation and enforcement of ship safety rules, thus ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market for marine equipment, while at the same time ensuring a high level of safety at sea and prevention of marine pollution.
it is also intended to simplify the regulatory environment by ensuring that the requirements of the international maritime organisation (imo) are applied and implemented in a harmonised manner throughout the union.
the new legislative framework creates a simplified regulatory environment for products and facilitates the consistent implementation of technical standards.
- i voted in favour of this report, which lays down the rules governing the action of the european maritime safety agency in response to pollution from ships and marine pollution from oil and gas installations.
the agency has a long-term responsibility in the field of pollution response and therefore needs financial security based on a multiannual commitment to carry out the related tasks efficiently and carefully.
in carrying out its activities, the european border and coast guard agency shall liaise with experts in the member states in the field of pollution control and shall cooperate with the international maritime organisation (imo) in accordance with existing regional agreements.
the agency shall collect, analyse and disseminate information on best practices, techniques and innovations in the field of response to marine pollution.
the budget for the remediation of the effects of pollution was found to be sufficient.
lithuania, as a country with a high unemployment rate, should take all necessary steps to address this challenge and promote entrepreneurship and the right regulatory environment for better job creation.
it should be noted that one of the major international ecological problems is the trade in wild animals and plants.
the objective of the protocol is to ensure the sustainable fishing of the eu fleet in seychelles' waters, and this objective is enshrined in several provisions of the protocol and the fisheries agreement: they aim to ensure the monitoring, control and inspection of fishing activities, including scientific cooperation, a satellite-based vessel monitoring system, etc.
it will help ensure the sustainable fishing of the eu fleet in seychelles' waters.
in addition, monitoring, control and effective scientific cooperation will be ensured to promote responsible fishing and sustainable fisheries in seychelles' waters.
the extension of the protocol will allow the eu fleet to continue its activities in deep-sea fishing areas and fishing opportunities in this part of the indian ocean, and will also strengthen cooperation between the two countries and develop a sustainable fisheries policy.
the main objective of this protocol is to pursue sustainable fishing.
the objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the union of the comoros, thereby establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros' fishing zone, taking into account the interests of both parties.
in addition, a strong partnership framework will help develop sustainable fisheries policies and the responsible use of fisheries resources.
it is important to stress that the eu has a crucial role to play in ensuring sustainable fisheries management and good governance in third countries.
the parties shall cooperate in order to ensure the development of a secure cyberspace, to promote sustainable development and economic growth.
this protocol will thus further promote contacts in the fields of culture, education, environment, technology and science.
this will help to ensure greater political and economic security in georgia and create an environment conducive to investment.
it is an effective aid measure that contributes to the sustainable development of these regions and also stimulates growth in the single market.
it should be noted that these regions, due to their remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy resources, small local market and low level of exports, suffer from high production costs which limit development and sustainable development and also have a negative impact on the socio-economic situation of the outermost regions.
in order to increase competitiveness and to compensate for the additional production costs incurred by remoteness and dependence on raw materials and energy resources, the application of this advantage should be extended to the french outermost regions.
in addition, the selection procedure must be streamlined, the sustainability of infrastructure investments ensured, access to additional sources of eu funding and the possibility for the city to lead the regional proposal.
i believe that the european targets for reducing plastic bags in the new directive, and the introduction of a tax on them, will help to reduce environmental pollution and damage to ecosystems.
in order to reduce the negative impact on the environment, in particular its pollution by waste, and to promote waste prevention and better resource efficiency, each member state should undertake to dispose of such waste.
however, the choice of implementation policy must carefully analyse the impact on consumers, the retail sector and the environment.
in addition, in order to better address the challenges of the ever-changing trading environment, the sme helpdesk should be given greater attention by providing it with increased support and by strengthening its role.
- i voted in favour of this report because of the importance of reducing emissions from the marine sector, and also because of the importance of monitoring, reporting and verification.
however, the maritime transport sector is dependent on the burning of fossil fuels and is one of the least regulated sources of anthropogenic emissions, which contributes to air pollution and climate change.
this regulation therefore aims to develop in the near future a policy for reducing emissions from the marine sector in line with the overall climate, air pollution and human health policy.
while it is important to ensure that emissions from the marine sector are included in this regulation as consistently as possible, it is also important to focus on the essentials and to reduce the implementation costs and administrative burden.
it is important to note that carbon emissions from maritime transport are increasing and will increase significantly in the future if no action is taken.
in addition, the current eu policy is inadequate and the policy ambition needs to be increased, as shipping emissions have health effects.
first, we need to ensure that a common policy is in place in europe to reduce emissions from the marine sector.
this would be a major step towards achieving the targets for energy efficiency and emissions reduction.
- i voted in favour of this report because invasive alien species threaten biodiversity and ecosystem functions or have negative effects on the environment, human health and socioeconomic development.
current trends in the introduction of new species suggest that the problem is far from being under control and its impact on biodiversity is expected to increase, as pressures such as habitat loss, degradation, fragmentation, over-exploitation and climate change increase the number of species concerned and the vulnerability of ecosystems to invasions.
this is a major step forward in ensuring the future protection of europe's biodiversity.
the principles of prevention, early detection, rapid eradication and long-term management and control provided for in the regulation will ensure the protection of biodiversity and reduce the potential for significant economic, environmental and ecological damage.
the european parliament considers that the scope of the proposed regulation on the monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change-related information at national and eu level is fully in line with the need to develop specific and coherent rules to ensure the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol in the eu after 2012[n 1].
finally, it should be stressed that the formal entry into force of the doha amendment is one of the priority objectives of the european union, as the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change.
- i welcome the proposal for a regulation which is necessary to ensure the implementation of the kyoto protocol beyond 2012. it is worth noting that the kyoto protocol makes a crucial contribution to the global effort to combat climate change.
it is noted that the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol will extend and strengthen the existing global emissions accounting system and their commitment.
the deepening of lithuania's economic integration into the european union is also creating a more favourable environment for international trade.
in this situation, it is particularly important for all our countries to concentrate and unite, by not selling military equipment to russia, including aircraft carriers, by applying economic sanctions and by defending against russian economic or energy blackmail, which may be strong.
maybe if they are very talented and skilled and if we work with schools and universities to educate people for the future, for the digital economy, the digital single market – that is a big reform we need – and energy, another big reform we need.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the eu's 'sustainable development goals' and to provide a report on the implementation of the 'sustainable development goals' and the 'sustainable development goals'.
the european union should make more progress and move towards sustainable economic growth, job creation and poverty reduction.
another important objective is a unified approach to problems, especially in the areas of a unified energy and foreign policy.
we believe that the economic recovery will be sustainable and that the new jobs created will be secure.
to combat energy poverty by increasing energy independence from unpredictable large neighbors.
i especially see as a good sign the reduction of the tax wedge on labour and improving business and innovation environment.
i am confident that this treaty will be mutually beneficial and will pave the way for fundamental changes in moldova, strengthening democracy and civil society, ensuring more sustainable economic and social development and a better life for the moldovan people.
in addition to the economic benefits of meeting our mutual commitments, we will be able to work together towards common goals in the areas of energy, regional stability and prosperity.
it is also essential that moldova makes further progress in implementing the energy efficiency action plan and aligns its climate change policy and objectives with eu policy.
they will allow the economy to modernise, consolidate eu investment in the country and create a better and more predictable political environment.
– i voted for the association agreement between the eu and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
this will allow the economy to modernise, eu investment to be anchored in the country and a better and more predictable political environment to be created.
i believe that the adoption of the protocol will stimulate innovation and investment in the european union's railways and will support the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, namely rail transport.
the proposal notes that the railway protocol is also compatible with the objective of supporting the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail.
it will give more clarity and simplification in the business environment.
it will provide opportunities for reintegration into future-oriented and sustainable sectors of the economy.
i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to set development policy priorities for the period after 2015. in 2000, the un adopted the millennium declaration and set specific goals to be achieved by 2015. while there are some positive results, such as the halving of extreme poverty and the good results achieved in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis, there is still a need to reduce poverty, increase food security, education, promote gender equality, sustainable energy, sustainable growth, etc.
i support the proposal to focus development policy on poverty reduction, the fight against inequality, the protection of human rights and the sustainability of health systems.
the eu recognised that sustainable development can only be achieved in the context of peace and security, and that, conversely, without development and poverty, peace cannot be sustainable.
it should be underlined that poverty eradication, the fight against inequalities and sustainable development should be the priority development themes for the post-2015 agenda, with human rights at the heart of the agenda.
in order to implement this programme, it is necessary to focus on areas such as sustainable economic growth, job creation and the efficient use of resources.
given that the challenges of poverty eradication and sustainable development are of global concern and concern all countries and all people, they must be addressed jointly on a global scale.
in particular, the eu and the global development agenda post-2015 must be based on the principles of human dignity, impartiality, equality and sustainability.
it is particularly important that the document covers the three dimensions of sustainable development - social, economic and environmental.
without sustainable action, we will not be able to address the root causes of the world's poverty, violence and discrimination.
secondly, we must act as an example to other countries - particularly in the field of environmental protection - to show that development based on clean energy, produced in a sustainable way, is possible.
i strongly support the expressed regrets that current eu policies focus solely on economic growth, which does not necessarily lead to sustainable society.
i fully support the idea put forward in the document that it is necessary to remove the tax burden from the working population and to introduce other forms of sustainable taxation in order to stimulate economic growth and job creation.
and these questions are becoming more and more important, because the work environment is changing dramatically with the introduction of new technologies, materials, work processes, design, and different ways of organising and managing work.
the impact of the measures we propose will be far more sustainable: a cleaner environment, reduced pollution, a more sustainable and resource-efficient economy.
the greens propose a fundamental reorientation of the economy and the promotion of social and environmental innovation, and the creation of an effective energy union independent of the external environment.
for the efdd group the lima conference should become a stepping stone towards a legally binding, ambitious international agreement in paris in 2015. not only the european union, but the rest of the world needs to start taking global warming seriously, rather than keeping its head in the sand.
the risks posed by climate change are very serious and have negative consequences for long-term economic growth and pose a real threat to human existence.
the european union's efforts alone are not enough and there is a risk that the safe climate threshold may be exceeded after 2020. it is therefore necessary to agree on global action against climate change after the expiry of the kyoto protocol.
a development strategy based on carbon reduction is fully compatible with economic growth.
in pursuing ambitious climate change policies at the global level, we need to work together and promote joint action, in particular by governments, business, financial institutions, industry, society and all together to look for all possible sources of funding, because this is of paramount importance.
i voted in favour of this resolution on climate change, which notes that in order to achieve a global temperature rise of below 20°c, it is essential to use the lima conference to outline the main objectives of an international agreement that can be reached in paris in december 2015. it is important that the eu and its member states keep in mind their commitment to increase contributions to the unece fund, with a target of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the agreement must provide for clear mitigation, adaptation and implementation measures to halve carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
the agreement on climate finance, technology transfer and capacity building will be a key element of support to developing countries.
it is also important that the international maritime organisation (imo) and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) take action to achieve sufficient results in the fight against the effects of climate change.
i voted in favour of this resolution because climate change is an unavoidable and potentially irreversible threat to human health and survival, biodiversity and the planet, and must therefore be addressed by all countries at national, eu and international levels.
if we are to achieve the european union's environmental, development, humanitarian and disaster risk reduction, economic, foreign, security and human rights policy objectives, we need concrete and tangible results in tackling climate change.
the european parliament hopes that the eu and the member states will play a constructive role at the meeting in lima in order to successfully agree a binding global climate agreement in paris in 2015. we should remember that governments around the world have a shared responsibility, including to future generations, to take the right climate action.
the european union should therefore substantially strengthen the eu's climate policy and reach an agreement on binding ambitious targets for emissions reductions, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources by 2030, with the exception of biofuels that are socially and environmentally harmful.
– i voted in favour of the resolution on the climate change conference in lima, peru.
decisions made in lima are extremely important in order to be able to reach climate change goals in paris 2015.
in writing.
climate change is a global problem that threatens the stability of the biosphere, communities and societies.
scientific evidence shows that climate change is not a myth climate warming is real, and human activities are the main contributors.
without specific measures to mitigate climate change, the average temperature is likely to be 5°c higher by the end of the 21st century.
it is therefore essential to find international consensus and strengthen measures to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions and to limit global warming to 2°c.
research shows that economic growth and the fight against climate change are compatible and can be achieved by countries of all economic capacities.
it is important that the paris climate change conference in december 2015 agree on coordinated action on climate change beyond 2020 at international level, in line with the 2°c target and the right to sustainable development.
we must act quickly to address the risks and ensure that the climate does not warm by more than 2 degrees.
not only the eu but also the rest of the world must make commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
only by working together can we tackle climate change much more effectively and prevent potential threats to the entire world's population.
- i voted in favour because it is clear to me that tackling climate change is one of the greatest challenges facing the world.
the european union must take all measures to promote the development of renewable energy, thus creating green jobs and added value for people living in the regions.
we cannot turn a blind eye to the construction of new nuclear power stations, both in the european union and in its neighbourhood, under the guise of climate change mitigation.
the european union must make it clear that decisions must be taken now, not before the next un climate change conference in paris.
the fight against global warming one of the priorities on the european union's agenda.
global warming is a huge loss - some regions feel it more, others less, but it is particularly acute in the face of extreme natural events.
the lisbon summit is the key moment to make important decisions that will be taken at the paris climate change conference next year.
it is good that the heads of state have discussed and set out the guidelines for the future on such important issues as global and sustainable economic growth, climate change and the fight against ebola.
the sad reality today is that in some countries we talk about reducing food waste, while in others we count the number of children who are dying of hunger.
it is important that the sme impact assessment considers all economic, social and environmental aspects.
it is important to adopt a new modernised data protection package as a matter of urgency in order to ensure the right balance between a high level of protection of personal data, consumer safety and control of personal data, and a stable and predictable legislative environment.
it is necessary to integrate nutrition, food security and sustainable agriculture into all its development policies.
i support calls on the commission and the member states to pursue coherent strategies for sustainable development and to work towards reducing the scale of hunger, including in the context of emergencies and humanitarian intervention.
the solution to child malnutrition requires an integrated approach in the implementation of development cooperation and in the context of humanitarian and natural crises, taking coordinated action in the areas of health, education, agriculture, water, access to energy resources and sanitation that affect child malnutrition.
it is also important that the resolution makes clear that climate change will have a negative impact on agricultural production.
without the protection of marine life and other ecosystems and biodiversity, deforestation and climate change mitigation, sustainable and secure access to energy, decent employment, product redistribution, we will not be able to achieve the ambitious goal of eliminating all forms of malnutrition by 2030.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, your remarks confirm this: the problem is not to revise the rules which were put in place at the height of the crisis to clean up the economic and budgetary policies in the union, but to apply these rules, to apply them fully in the letter and in the spirit.
i agree that the eu's accession to cites is a necessary step to ensure that the eu is fully capable of achieving its environmental policy objectives.
it also covers cooperation in other areas such as research and technological development, education, social policy, environment, consumer protection, etc.
the agreement also covers cooperation in other important areas such as research and technological development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
this is to compensate for the disadvantages faced by such regions: remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy resources, and a small local market.
i fully agree that europe needs investments to enable projects of european interest to be implemented in the areas of energy, transport, the digital agenda, research and other very important areas, and i am pleased that we will already be receiving important proposals in these areas next year.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
damage to public infrastructure and facilities in the fields of energy, water and water resources, telecommunications, transport, health, education, emergency services, cultural heritage and protected natural areas.
the high levels of soil and waste leached, the flooding of sewage systems and the spilling of sewage have led to a deterioration of living conditions in the affected regions.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
i congratulate the european parliament's negotiators for having achieved an immediate payment of eur 4.25 billion in urgent debts from this year's eu budget and for having obliged the european commission to draw up a graduated plan for the reduction of outstanding accounts and to set a sustainable debt limit for the future.
however, the proposed modifications are minimal and will not have a significant environmental impact.
— taking into account today’s changing security environment and emerging new security threats, a timely and prompt revision of common eu internal security strategy (iss) is needed.
i support the commission's proposals to study the strategic position of the european steel industry in the world, to develop a comprehensive tool for analysing the steel market, which would provide information on the balance between supply and demand for steel and to report on the main challenges facing the european steel industry, taking into account social, economic and environmental aspects.
parliament also called on the commission to speed up the work on the industrial policy action plan, which should be published in the first half of 2015, in order to revive the competitiveness of european industry on the global market and ensure an effective level playing field, while ensuring high social and environmental standards in the eu.
support to the steel sector is of great importance, including the strategic development of new core steel-using sectors such as energy, transport, construction.