and with this new legislative package, we are making sure that they are used better, and above all that they are used better towards more environmental protection, less wage dumping, fair trade and, above all, innovation.
the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
i would also like to say that we have looked for a balance between passenger rights and airlines’ interests, because airlines are operating in a very difficult environment at the present time and are not passengers’ enemies.
i voted against the delvaux report because it does not provide a realistic framework for climate and energy policies for 2030. it is a report with no legal consequences, practically unreadable to the citizen, and which advocates everything and its opposite.
for renewable energy, for and against nuclear energy, for and against shale gas.
the tobacco directive is the result of a lame compromise between a commission which proposed a patchy and bureaucratic regulation (even imposing the use of helvetica characters throughout europe), an orgy of bans voted by the taliban in the committee on the environment and health, and the vacillating of member states, torn between the imperatives of public health and the protection of their markets.
once again – also given my personal experience – i congratulate you on this timely report, which focuses on what is really essential to reduce poverty and foster sustainable development in the so-called developing part of the world.
if we are on the one hand urging the countries of the south to develop food agriculture, we cannot succeed if we are on the other hand encouraging them to produce more and more plant material to meet our energy needs.
i voted against the commission's proposals, which continue to propose unilateral european measures to combat co2 emissions on the pretext that europe must assert its 'leadership' in climate policy.
it is only when it comes to lng for maritime vessels that the commission has a real regret, because an earlier date would have helped the shipping industry to meet the new limits for sulphur emissions.
the objective is clear: we must move quickly to become more independent of oil and reduce co2 emissions if we are to achieve the ambitious goals we have set ourselves in europe.
i therefore welcome the commission's proposal, which has focused on three objectives: firstly, this independence, but secondly also diversification, diversity and security of energy supply.
madam president, commissioner, the reduction of plastic bags will be a priority of environmental policies.
it's not only visual pollution, a waste of resources, but it's also causing the death of thousands of animals, especially seabirds.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety had decided that it would work only in english on this proposal for a directive.
the committee on industry, research and energy, which should have given an opinion, refused to work only in english, so there is no opinion from it at the moment.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety had decided that the legislative work should be done in english.
the committee on industry, research and energy opposed this.
the fact that your european semester doesn't include environmental issues.
fourthly, where can i, where can we get confidence that your commission will go beyond the ridiculously low 27% efficiency and 7% renewable energy which the heads of state will unfortunately decide to do under the veto of cameron and poland?