− setting emissions targets for vans will help reduce fuel consumption and keep european producers at the forefront of technological innovation while at the same time benefiting the environment.
− i voted in favour because this programme aims to facilitate the creation of an environment in which – thanks to education, information and awareness-raising – consumers know how to navigate the single market to benefit from the best offers on products and services.
− i believe that renewables and energy efficiency should remain the primary focus of eu climate legislation and funding.
carbon capture and storage can be considered only as a transitional solution to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources.
− measures are needed to: ensure a timely revision of the packaging directive, separating waste norms from product rules and standards; define targets for collection, sorting and recycling, and promote the creation of adequate infrastructures; envisage ways of processing different types of plastic; have dangerous plastics phased out or banned by 2020; reduce and phase out single-use plastic bags; promote safe, biodegradable, bio-based and compostable plastics on the basis of clearly defined criteria; and increase public and private investment in r&d for sustainable plastics.
the european union and the member states also need to tackle illegal exports and the dumping of plastic waste.
one of the key amendments from the european parliament, which it strongly supports, is the establishment of a european-wide register of beneficial owners, which will not only improve the business environment by leveling the playing field between all companies, but will also be a serious weapon in the fight against money laundering.
− the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations.
− the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations.
− the new provisions on concessions, while preserving the public provision of services of general economic interest, and water in particular, will help central and local authorities to organise an efficient, transparent and modern system for the concession of works and services contracts to economic operators bound to respect social and environmental obligations.
given that the effects of these products on human health and the environment are still not fully understood, i consider that the introduction of genetically modified maize is premature.
i therefore believe that there is a need to discuss and understand the environmental and human impact of genetically modified plants, while also looking for alternatives to the use of chemicals.
science has proven that climate change is now being caused by one major cause - human-caused co2 emissions.
so our goal should be: reduce this co2 emissions.
one of them is simply to use less energy, so-called energy efficiency the less we use, the less we waste.
another option is to use nuclear energy that does not emit co2.
the third option is to use renewable energy sources, which also do not have this waste.
but, my friends, that goal should be simple and clear: reduce co2 emissions.
the commission is required to develop legislative acts or to amend existing ones in order to create a favourable environment for long-term investment.
as our country's entrepreneurs and the development of the economy in general need sustainable stability, initiatives aimed at ensuring it are particularly important and desirable.
where to look for a big problem the problem is that, first of all, it hurts the business environment, because most companies pay taxes, but those who legalize illegal money do not participate in the system.
europe needs to re-examine its relationship with russia, to reduce its dependence on russian energy resources rapidly, and this can be done in a few years.
the second imperative is european energy independence from russian gas supplies.
we have other means of diversifying europe's energy supply within a year and a half, and we must act immediately to create a european energy union.
and the second position is on the energy sector in lithuania, where i would also like to pay tribute to the last lithuanian governments, which have created the opportunity to diversify gas supply in the energy sector in lithuania in the near future, which i think is an extremely important achievement for the future.
first, i congratulated lithuania on the work it has done to ensure financial stability and sustainable economic growth.
as the crisis in ukraine worsens, energy security policy becomes of vital importance not only for ukraine but for europe as a whole.
in europe we are dependent on russian energy supplies, especially gas supplies.
it is therefore vital that the european council raises european energy security policy to the highest level.
first, the development of the european union's energy networks must be accelerated, so that member states can be more confident that energy supplies can flow between member states, thus also relieving the baltic states and finland of this energy isolation.
secondly, we must move quickly towards an energy union so that the european union can speak with one voice with russia as a supplier.
it is time to take the european union's energy union forward.
the legacy of the soviet union and the socioeconomic situation are the reasons for this environment.
the promotion of the independence of the executive, judiciary and legislature and the reform process in the framework of eu-moldova cooperation have led to the gradual eradication of corruption and the improvement of the business investment environment.
on the one hand, not only in europe but worldwide, we need to reduce co2 emissions to combat global warming, on the other hand, it is important for us, especially in europe, to preserve jobs and promote economic growth.
and there are actually two ways that we could reduce this co2 emissions, which will have different impacts directly on our economy.
the first way is that europe is getting more and more rigorous, in our own union, in demanding that industry reduce co2 emissions, and as a result some of the industry will be interested in moving outside the eu to countries like china, where they don't want these co2 emission quotas, and you could say that europe would reduce co2 emissions, but on a global scale it wouldn't happen, because emissions would continue in china, maybe even more, because there is no limit.
the other way to do the same is to get the lima conference to say that it is an international agreement to reduce co2 emissions not only in europe, but also in the rest of the world and in china.
- i voted in favour of, because it is extremely important to support the un climate change conference, giving political support from the eu to the conference to be held in the peruvian capital at the beginning of december.
it is about the environment and the quality of life.
the european union, in turn, can benefit from joint sustainable projects in trade, energy, transport and other sectors.