you're kind of creating a parallel universe of energy.
if i may remind you for a moment: it took 150 years to get to this energy system that we have now, and it cost trillions of dollars.
we could have put that into real renewable energy, the real future that we're all responsible for.
that led to support for the drafting of this report and also to the unanimous adoption of this report in the committee on the environment and public health.
in addition, this proposal is crafty in imposing a political agenda of climate hysteria, diversity policies and other socialist nonsense on business owners.
it is for combating eu fraud and waste, but not at eu level.
that's the sustainable economy, that's the circular economy, that's the sustainable bio-based economy.
we all know that, even the british do industrial policy, only it is based on nuclear energy or shale gas.
we are choosing a different industrial policy and we are therefore saying that the commission has a good chance with the climate and energy package next week.
and i look at mr tajani: the commission will also set targets for renewable energy and energy saving.
that is why i am firmly convinced that europe needs this new industrial revolution, which focuses on energy saving, which also focuses on new renewable energies, which focuses on a more modern energy policy, an energy policy that is more european.
and that's what we're trying to do now: accelerate sustainable growth from now on, so that we get rid of all need for support.
we must also strike a balance between stabilisation and sustainable growth.
we will do everything we can to help this initiative succeed, with the aim of improving growth rates and job-intensive projects in sectors such as transport, energy, shipping and tourism.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the two axes on which we are going to work are development, including the energy sector, and security, including the definition and management of european maritime zones.
and i remind you of what has been heard in our chambers since 2004, when i was a member of the european parliament: europe must finally respond to the problem of energy insecurity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the areas of the environment, the environment and the environment policy.
it is, i believe, a fitting coincidence that we end this parliamentary term under the presidency of greece – a country that has been the focus of so much political energy and public attention during this mandate and that, in the end, has emboldened us to do all we can to fight both the root causes and the social consequences of the crisis.
in fact, as the prime minister has said, there is good news: the important progress made in last night’s trilogue on the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) is another step towards greater transparency and discipline in financial markets and another advance towards completing the comprehensive programme of financial reforms launched in 2009. at the same time, we need to continue working in areas that go beyond our efforts to remedy the economic crisis but are equally vital to demonstrate that the european union is capable of delivering the results our citizens expect: on data protection, which is so important for upholding our values and the way we want our society to function; on the rule of law, where this spring the commission will present a more robust mechanism to counter systemic threats that may arise in any one of our member states; and also on climate and energy, where the commission will come up with a concrete framework for the period up to 2030 and where we are determined to continue to take the lead globally.
if you look at the new energy landscape emerging you will see that, for us to guarantee future growth and jobs, we will have to strike the delicate balance between sustainability, security of supply, and competitiveness.
and on climate, greece is still importing eur 9 billion of oil every year, so i would expect that greece to be a frontrunner in fighting for an ambitious climate and energy package.
that shows how far down the wrong road you are heading now with climate and energy policies.
- the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (rapporteur: mr de gucht) it is difficult for us to deal with dictators who abuse their citizens, but we can deal with abuses caused or aggravated by multinationals through european initiatives.
we can force european retailers to incorporate sustainable and humane production into the price of their clothing.
the first is climate change, the second is the far too expensive and unreliable energy supply.
that means that even those who still believe that climate change is a myth should support this package, precisely because it leads to a reliable energy supply and cheap energy.
let me start with the climate, mr president.
if we want to stay within the two-degree limit - and we all support this - we will have to reduce our co2 emissions by 80-95% by 2050. if you just go through what commissioner hedegaard said, 40% in 2030 is the absolute minimum to finally reach that target.
- the next item is the joint debate on: energy.
without energy conservation and renewable energy, climate targets are unattainable.
even without climate problems, these measures are necessary, because otherwise energy is far too expensive.
so the only real solution to get affordable energy in europe is through renewable energy and energy conservation.
finally, mr president, and commissioner oettinger also mentioned that if there is anything that industry, both the energy industry and the rest of industry, needs, it is certainty and clarity about the objectives and not 28 different national programmes, but a european, clear, binding narrative.
but at the current price of 5 euros per tonne of co2, it is obviously not competitive with coal or other polluting, cheap energy sources.
if we had had the co2 price of 30, 40, 50 euros per tonne, there would have been no need for a subsidy of euros for wind, land or solar energy.
– mr president, i would also like to discuss the issue of climate reduction, also greenhouse gas reduction and renewable energy and the ‘three targets’ discussion.
let me start with the climate discussion, and this is a question to commissioner hedegaard.
i think the problem is that you have been working so long on back-loading that you are now also back-loading climate action, because the only thing that the commission is proposing with its -40% is that it is a linear reduction until 2030 of 1.8% per year, and if we then need to go to -80% in 2050, you have to go three times as fast after 2030, or if you want to go to -95% you have to go six times as fast.
so you are now back-loading climate action, and maybe on ets we were in agreement here, but really this is not ambitious at all and what you see happening already is business europe bashing this approach, so the only thing you did was to reach a compromise and it will be further watered down, so thank you for that – and that is a cynical thank you.
then, the discussion on renewables and energy efficiency: this is more to mr oettinger, or maybe more to my british colleagues who always say ‘let the markets decide; give us a greenhouse gas reduction target and then the markets will deliver’.
finally to mr oettinger: last week at the business europe day you were a bit unclear as to whether you were in favour of the -40% greenhouse gas action or not.
can you, for once, be very clear that this is a united action of the commission and that you support the -40% greenhouse gas reduction, or are you changing your tune every single day depending on your audience?
– i would suggest that my colleague read china’s five-year action plan, which proposes huge action to reduce emissions from coal-fired power plants and even stronger emission performance standards than we are discussing here in europe, because we still think that ets will also deliver.
economic policies and climate policies go hand-in-hand.
let me just say one thing about nuclear energy: if the uk tories believe so much in the markets, why then does nuclear need a 35-year price guarantee, which is double the current price of electricity?
– first, on the internal market, i think that concern about the current energy market in the eu, which is going in all different directions, is exactly why we need stronger european energy policies and therefore stronger guidance from the eu on which energy mix we want.
i want to have that discussion, together with all the colleagues in the national parliaments, because i believe that economy and climate-friendliness should be at the forefront.
it is called nuclear energy.
mr president, today we are debating the commission's climate and energy policy.
this week, their analysis of eu environment and climate policy was published.
that includes climate change, water, air, environmental issues, you name it.
i quote: the policy was not effective because it was not sufficiently designed and implemented, the monitoring also lacked adequate output and result indicators for the projects, and there was insufficient and low sustainability of the projects.
at the same time, european commissioners tajani and oettinger admit that current climate and energy policies are devastating to european industry.
energy is becoming priceless.
this silent and energy-efficient sector makes an important contribution to the european union’s transport system.
in september 2013, the commission presented the naiades ii programme to improve the quality of the sector’s operating conditions and six key areas of intervention: infrastructure, environmental performance, markets, innovation, jobs and skills and the integration of the sector into the logistical chain.
your second question asked how to stimulate innovation to increase the environmental performances of the inland waterway fleet and, in particular, to help the smes to access finance.
overall, eur 6.3 billion are available in the programme for transport and, of course, support for improving the environmental performance of the fleet will continue after 2015. the connecting europe facility (cef) contains eur 26.25 billion for transport to be used, inter alia, to remove bottlenecks and create missing links in the inland waterways network and provide financing for new technologies such as lng.
russia should also withdraw its troops in order to end the climate of intimidation and fear in the region.
i would like to underline that a vital role for social dialogue is essential to achieving sustainable reforms.
it all leads to more control, centralization and waste of money by brussels.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the crisis has shown that europe needs to become even stronger for the transition to a smart and sustainable economy.
unfortunately, sustainability in particular is still a bit of a mess, even though that is where the future lies.
in future, competition will be based much more on the efficiency of the use of raw materials, the reduction of harmful emissions and so on.
i would like the european investment bank to put more emphasis on this, not only to save the climate, to save the earth, but above all to make the economic structure of europe much stronger.
finally, mr president, there is talk of priorities, unemployment, energy, etc.
i would say, in the light of the events in ukraine, let us concentrate on renewable energy sources.
now, that sounds technical, but they have a huge impact on our climate.
they were responsible for the hole in the ozone layer.
its use has increased by 60% in the eu since 1990. so that's a huge increase in these f-gases, which have a very large greenhouse effect.
they have no effect on the ozone hole, but they do have a large warming potential in the atmosphere and are very important greenhouse gases, sometimes up to 23,000 times as strong as, for example, co2.
if you're going to look at what the eu needs to do in the longer term to phase out greenhouse gases to a level of -95% after 2050, you also need to do something about the non-co2 greenhouse gases like the f-gases.
then we had to negotiate with the council and it is thanks to the lithuanian presidency that at least a deal was reached at the end of december because it was very difficult to convince the member states - as is often the case with climate legislation - of these opportunities for the green economy.
a total phasing-out of the programme to -79% by 2030. but we have also been able to gain some ground as a parliament, such as additional prohibitions for specific sectors, think of commercial refrigeration systems, think of air conditioning with the highest greenhouse gases.
- mr president, i will be brief, because we must also enjoy the moment when a subject such as climate does not, for once, cause a great deal of controversy in this chamber.
you can create new jobs, you can combat climate change and you can therefore support the innovative industry of a new economy in which europe can play a leading role in the world.
the united states and china indicated last june that they want to take the lead on climate change and explicitly said that f-gases are a good topic for cooperation.
can we do a college climate change in one minute?
the most important thing is that when the sun shines, the energy is allowed to pass through, which is then reflected by the earth with an infrared wavelength.
this causes us to live in a climate that is about 20 degrees warmer than if there were no greenhouse gases.
the biggest debate right now is about the sensitivity of the climate system.
the whole atmosphere is 20 degrees... (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.) by holding the energy at that wavelength.
3) the eu must completely review its energy policy.
madam president, 75 per cent employment, 20 million people out of poverty, 3 per cent of gross national product for research and development, 20 per cent renewable energy.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
and this initiative by mr cadec is aimed at changing that, at including fishing in long-term agreements which are sustainable and sustainable.
and not when the council simply bypasses parliament's position that all airlines should pay for their emissions in european airspace and is shockingly lobbied by the aviation sector.
now we are faced with a choice that nobody wanted, and that means we can either head for an aviation crisis, or we can go rogue with our climate policy.
this debate is called greenhouse gas emission trading, but it has less to do with climate than with the position of the european union in the world.
for the ecr group tomorrow this parliament will have a unique opportunity to improve the environmental performance of road transport.
because the ecocombi is good for the environment: we have less traffic jams, road safety is not reduced and the cost of infrastructure is kept the same by the extra axle of the ecocombi and the use of the ecocombi on certain routes.
- mr president, first of all may i sincerely thank the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
therefore, the sustainability and credibility of the control system as a whole is at stake.
we also need to adapt our measures to a dynamically changing environment of pests and trade.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
the commission should also be able to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms.
this is now a typical case of what everyone wants in europe: less plastic waste, which is also bad for tourism, less plastic in the food chain, less plastic in the sea, which is bad for fisheries, and also less plastic in the wild.
it's these kinds of issues, like the plastic waste in our environment, that motivated me to go into politics in the first place.
and so much of it ends up on the streets and eventually in the sea and in the water, that 70% of all the plastic waste in the north sea comes from these plastic bags.
70%, not a little bit, no, three-quarters of all plastic waste comes from these plastic bags.
within three months, a few cities reduced plastic waste from those bags by 80 percent.
and the beautiful thing is that 90% of the people who responded, the citizens, who we all end up doing this for and who are going to have to vote for us in a few days, were very keen to get involved to do even more to address the problem of plastic waste through these plastic bags.
so i 'll sum it up: we have a huge environmental problem.
we have to have a european energy community, because the best approach is to tell mr putin to keep his oil and gas.
we too will have to reduce our energy needs very quickly.
we cannot allow our energy dependence to be reduced to russia.
i know that he has been working under very difficult circumstances; being the commissioner for the environment at the time of an economic crisis is not the easiest job in the world.
i think he has done a great job, not only for the environment but also – and this is something that i would like to emphasise once again – for the economy.
we have to understand, and commissioner potočnik is one of those fighting for this, that sustainability might be even more important for the competitiveness of europe than for its environment and that is something that we should never forget.
i hope that he will continue his fight and that not only the commissioner for the environment, but also the commissioners for industry and competition understand the economic relevance of sustainability.
this is my last intervention and i would like to take this opportunity to first of all express my thanks to the commissioner, who has really done everything in his power to develop a greater vision so that waste and the efficient use of resources are the future.
much has been said here and much good has been said about the shipment of waste and i fully agree with that, because as waste is the future, we must deal with it better.
i have seen in the past few years here in the european parliament that waste can be an opportunity, a huge opportunity, but that for many people there is still a really high waste pile.
that is why it is very important, whether it is banks or waste or any other sector, not only to introduce new laws but also to monitor them.
we have to find ways to preserve our cherished standards when it comes to food safety and the environment, as well as fundamental rights, such as the right to privacy.
let us not therefore be tempted to hand out large project grants from europe, but let us focus on sustainable reforms in the member states.
the islamic state grew in a climate of sectarian politics fed by respective iraqi governments not doing justice to the pluralism of the country.
we should also work together with turkey, through which it is believed many people enter syria and iraq, and of course, for a more sustainable solution in the middle east, there must be talks which also include the islamic republic of iran and saudi arabia as they are using various proxies to defend or promote their respective dangerous interests in the region.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
only then will we have real solid sustainable growth.
it normally takes quite some pressure to get difficult political decisions and we must wonder how much additional pressure is still needed to finally take necessary measures in the field of climate.
unfortunately climate change is still strengthening its grip on our planet.
future costs due to climate change are astronomical and today’s new climate economy report shows that the road to a low carbon economy does not have to hurt the economy.
every economist should be in favour of ambitious climate policy.
we are talking about minus 40%, but if you look at the negotiations already, we are going to take some rights from emissions trading after 2020 and from non-ets sectors, all to make that minus 40% mainly a paper reality, but in reality this will not achieve anything.
the eu spends tens of billions of dollars every year to combat alleged climate change.
after years of intensive research on climate change, it is still unclear whether our planet is warming or cooling.
the ipcc, through its juggling of figures and demonstrable scientific errors, has given credence to the claim that we actually have no idea how the climate will develop.
there's so much uncertainty in this climate debate, that i've been looking for one fact that stands out like a pole above water, and that's what i've found.
can you guarantee that european countries can decide to freeze nuclear energy without being sued?
if we are serious about creating jobs, we must implement structural, sustainable reforms and we must not continue to put them off.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
there is more room for environmental reforms.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas.
the energy union cannot be achieved without ambition.
for example, 49 companies are advocating a 40 percent improvement in energy efficiency.
it is now up to the leaders, this weekend at this council, to show the same ambitions so that the energy union is indeed an instrument to achieve those ambitions.
we have talked a lot about the economy, about foreign affairs, about an energy union – lots of concrete things – but i have heard very little about values.
as far as we're concerned, those core tasks are: a fair internal market, the securing of raw materials, food and energy, and that in a sustainable way, migration and the much stronger speaking more one voice in the world.
if you know that european hands are never going to be as cheap as chinese hands, europe will have to be the continent that keeps reinventing itself through smart and sustainable solutions that keep those european hands working.
so growth and jobs through smart and sustainable solutions, and - i say to mr tang - not by saddling the coming generations with towering debts.
there is no investment in animals, nature and the environment.
almost half of the budget is devoted to agricultural subsidies, regardless of the impact on animals, people, nature or the environment.
there is little investment in biodiversity.
instead of investing in sustainable agriculture, with plant-based food production at its core, the eu subsidises intensive livestock farming and maintains the transport of live animals for millennia.
- the next item is the report (a4-0179/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0406 - c4-0179/97).
i abstained on paragraph 37 because low-carbon emissions do not exclude the option of nuclear energy as an alternative.
in my view, nuclear energy is not a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels.
– the party for the animals is in favour of green, renewable, carbon-free energy.
by not including the words ‘green’ or ‘renewable’, the ‘carbon-free strategies’ proposed in paragraph 37 could also include nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is no sustainable alternative because it depends on limited resources.
furthermore nuclear power plants produce extremely hazardous waste and pose a potential high environmental risk.
therefore i voted against these carbon-free strategies.
i abstained on paragraph 37 because low-carbon emissions do not exclude the option of nuclear energy as an alternative.
in my view, nuclear energy is not a sustainable alternative to fossil fuels.
and 2014 will also set another record for co2 emissions.
we see the evidence of climate change almost every day.
i therefore welcome the decision by china and the united states to take a joint approach to climate change.
twenty percent zero-emission energy in 2030 means an additional 800 to 1,000 gigawatts of capacity, and that's almost all of the current electricity production in the united states.
– mr president, i would like to welcome mr cañete to the plenary for his first address to the plenary, on the very important climate conference in lima.
we know that in the us they are going to handle them, in china they are going to handle them, but the council conclusions still give a feeling that europe might give subsidies to coal-fired power plants until 2030. it would be very important, mr cañete, for you to make it very clear here that when we are talking about funds for the modernisation of our energy system, we are not talking about subsidies for coal-fired power plants at all.
i think there is one important issue here: if you want to have clarity for investors, you also need to have clear policies, and one of the clearest policies you can provide investors with is a binding energy-efficiency target.
a final remark to the council: regarding the funds, the green climate fund.
is the council able, for next year, to really make sure that, on time, europe as a whole can provide money for that climate fund in a new additional way that is transparent and also predictable, so that the developing countries really know that the council of the european union is serious about climate change and helping developing countries in that?
but when there's good news about the environment, i don't hear the environmentalists.
obama can't deal with the republican majority, china and russia, we know enough about that, the eu is divided and even threw out the climate scientist glover because she didn't want to join the climate hysteria.
in lima, the only change in temperature will be the heated scenes in the local brothels and the chambreling of thousands of bottles of luxury wine, which are immediately clocked away by the people who care so much about our environment.
i call for a boycott of this climate summit; the money spent on this must be paid back immediately to the countries from which it comes.
i therefore hope that commissioner moedas can give the message not only to his colleague responsible for the environment but also to his colleagues higher up the hierarchy in the commission that we really need an eu action plan against wildlife trafficking, and the sooner the better.
– madam president, it was this weekend that i returned from lima where the climate summit took place, and i must say that i was impressed by the broadly shared determination to fight climate change.
but the lima outcome also made it clear that we still have a very difficult battle against climate change ahead of us.
for that reason, it is crucial that public policy pushes investments towards a low-carbon economy.
and this is very interesting, because if you read the impact assessment – and we are talking about better regulation, tomorrow the commission will present a programme on better regulation – the most efficient proposal should be the proposal from 2011. that is in the emissions impact assessment.
alde considers sustainability a big theme, but the commission’s red-tape slayer wants to withdraw the proposals for waste and air quality.
environmental legislation is needed for a shift to a sustainable economy and that is in everyone's interest.
because it's like a pyramid scheme now, and that's not sustainable.
no doubt, then, airports are being built for which no dog comes, noise barriers are being placed along roads through uninhabited areas and absurd energy projects are being paid for.
this puts pressure on european production and safety standards, which may mean, among other things, a lowering of european standards for the environment and animal welfare.
while i regret that ecuador is being the victim of unfair trade relations between europe and colombia/peru, i do not want a short-term solution in the form of tariff treatment for products from ecuador, when the consequences for animals, nature and the environment are not to be anticipated.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 4064/89 on the common organization of the market in natural gas.