it is japan, in terms of the objective function of low co2 emissions and low fuel consumption, that beats european automotive companies, which are low-profit and lack the economic incentive to innovate.
the target for 2020 to reduce their mass by around 300 kg and, in the long term, to reduce emissions in the following years.
this would in fact be a test of the efficiency and safety of the different carbon capture and storage options.
celebrities should know that such acts are unacceptable, inappropriate in their environment and that we should fight such behavior, not just apply penalties and appropriate laws.
the presidency successfully completed negotiations on 137 legislative acts on various dossiers ranging from environmental legislation to the digital agenda and the eu banking union.
the innovation economy that the member states are striving for is one that makes effective use of scientific advances, uses technological advances in a way that respects the environment and ensures that the eu is more competitive on the world stage.
intelligent specialisation is also developing on the basis of respect for the environment and available resources.
- i am in favour of adopting a resolution on the regulation of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
in 2011, parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 which provides for a reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from cars to 147g co2/km from 2020. according to the technical analyses carried out, it is feasible to achieve the above co2 emission level by 2020. the adopted guidelines will certainly have an impact on the development of research and innovation in european automotive markets and will also improve their competitiveness on the international scene.
regulations toughening up co2 emission limits for vehicles are necessary to protect and preserve the environment for future generations, especially as passenger cars and vans are responsible for more than half of the greenhouse gases emitted by the transport industry in europe.
the amendment of the directive therefore sent a strong signal to our entrepreneurs, while keeping the focus on the environment, which must never be left out of a constant assessment, also based on macroeconomic contingencies.
− how can we combine technological innovation and the reduction of co2 emissions caused by the road sector?
the answer is relatively easy: setting well balanced emissions targets for vehicles, in this case for new light commercial vehicles.
i voted in favour of this report since i am strongly convinced that technological innovation in the automobile sector can be encouraged by reasonable emissions targets to reduce fuel consumption.
− i am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles because i see a prospect for achieving that goal.
the report proposes a number of solutions for reducing co2 emissions from vans.
all these factors help us to have a coherent and clear overview of the challenges for the eu with regard to light commercial vehicles and co2 emissions.
the european union is already planning to introduce co2 emissions reductions for heavy-duty vehicles.
environment ministers from the eu member states have adopted the text of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council setting emission standards for new light commercial vehicles.
the meeting was attended by janusz zaleski, undersecretary of state at the ministry of the environment, chief conservator of nature.
the aim of the regulation will be to oblige manufacturers of these types of vehicles to reduce the average co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles to 175 g/km from 2014 onwards, and gradually by 2017. this means that 70% of cars will have to meet the co2 emission limit in 2014 and the percentage of vehicles will increase in the following years: 75% in 2015, 80% in 2016, 100% in 2017. the regulation also provides for the introduction of a system of incentives for manufacturers to market cars emitting less than 50 g co2/km, the so-called super credits.
− the use of carbon capture and storage technology in european industry is currently the only method that is expected to lead to significant co2 emissions reductions in industrial sectors such as steel, cement, chemicals and oil refineries.
this method, using carbon dioxide from the combustion of fossil fuels, contributes to the production of low-carbon electricity and has an impact on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the implementation of this technology is of particular importance in view of the european union's objective of significantly reducing co2 emissions by 2050. moreover, according to the international energy agency, fossil fuels will continue to dominate energy markets in the coming decades, which further increases the importance of the technology.
i think we should invest in new, low-carbon, environmentally friendly technologies and promote them.
one of them is the method of carbon capture and storage used by european industry.
− carbon capture and storage technology can be one of the key elements in reducing carbon emissions into the atmosphere.
the number of pilot schemes so far is small, and transporting carbon dioxide from the point of emission to the place of storage is a major environmental challenge.
it should be stressed that, in a situation where it is clear that these technologies are far from being implemented, the role of biological sorption, including in soils, in reducing the level of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere should also be considered.
actions to increase it could lead to effective carbon offsetting.
− the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technology will be of key importance in the coming years, given that global co2 emissions will need to be significantly reduced by 2050. this technology is the only one capable of producing substantial co2 reductions, as it is suitable for keeping the global temperature rise below 2°c.
in this way, we could counter the threat of global warming.
− the development of renewable energy sources should remain a key objective of legislation, but also of eu financial support.
carbon capture and storage should be considered as a transitional solution that can help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources.
this technology cannot be considered as competitive with renewable energy sources and cannot be considered as a means of reducing co2 emissions.
however, its proper implementation and closing the legal gap should make it much easier for member states to introduce new, cleaner energy technologies.
- a few decades ago, carbon capture and storage (ccs) emerged as a breakthrough technology that would enable fossil fuel-based power plants to be powered without further environmental damage.
in theory, ccs technology allows carbon dioxide to be captured, transported and compressed underground, where it is stored safely and does not escape into the atmosphere.
in practice, stopping carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels used for energy production and other industrial purposes is proving very difficult and expensive.
while some of the carbon capture and storage processes are already being used successfully, for example in natural gas extraction, the development of an integrated system to capture co2 on an industrial scale, for example in fossil fuel-fired power plants, is still in the future.
despite many incentives from governments around the world to develop carbon capture and storage technologies, many projects never got off the drawing board because of the huge investment and uncertainty about future profits.
with the goal of providing lasting and effective social protection for all, the current report calls on member states to optimise and modernise protection systems, ensure sustainable long-term financing for their schemes, and draw up social security strategies that take account of the international labour organisation guidelines.
as a socialist mep, i believe that the use of resources for social protection should not be regarded as expenditure but as an investment in sustainable economic growth and social inclusion in the eu.
- i voted for the report by mr vaughan because i believe that cohesion policy funding, one of the eu's main policies, makes a valuable contribution to helping member states and regions create jobs, increase competitiveness and promote sustainable growth.
this report highlights the importance of plastic waste as a valuable resource for environmental protection by promoting its reuse, recycling and recovery.
− plastic waste should be seen as a valuable resource for recycling and reuse.
proper management of plastic waste and related support packages can contribute to energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction and the protection of natural resources.
to achieve this, clear targets for the collection, sorting and recycling of plastic waste should be set and, above all, efforts to reduce waste should be sustained.
- i voted in favour of the report on plastic waste because every day i see old packaging, broken electronics and all kinds of other waste in the streets and ditches that could be used more rationally and reused after use.
i am pleased that the european commission and the rapporteur have decided to tackle this difficult subject and have proposed a coherent and ambitious plan to reduce waste in our environment.
this is a huge opportunity to use sustainable policies to increase employment and improve our environment at the same time.
i am particularly pleased to draw attention to the problem of pollution in european waters.
this is a major challenge, as waste contributes to the depletion of fish stocks, which causes discontent not only among fishermen but also among consumers.
− the incineration of plastic bottles, films, plastics of all kinds and waste poses a major threat to the environment and, above all, to human health.
waste incineration is the release of gases and dust into the atmosphere, including carbon dioxide and heavy metals.
the combustion of waste such as pvc tiles, plastic buckets and pelvic floor boxes in natural conditions (at low temperatures) produces furans and dioxins, amongst others, which are the most toxic chemical synthetics known to man, while 1 kg of polyurethanes, such as those found in sponges, seals or soles, produces 30 to 50 litres of hydrogen cyanide, or prussic acid, one of the most potent poisons.
awareness of the harmful effects of releasing waste products into the atmosphere in unsuitable facilities, and warning others, can save us all from the worst of all possible illnesses.
in 1992, the european union adopted a series of regulations that provide special protection for producers, often small producers, of food whose specific characteristics are linked to the environment in which it is produced and to tradition.
the final text ensures key factors to guarantee a healthy economic environment, the transparency of the procedure, and equality of treatment of economic operators, with the same rules applying to everyone.
i think we should focus on these things that are really important to honey producers, to beekeepers, to fight diseases like warts and other diseases, to focus on how to make our environment green, how to reduce chemicals, and to put money into research like this, rather than just looking at how much pollen is in a batch of honey or a hive of honey, because if we do, it's going to be a big, fat nonsense.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
i find in the draft report the essential elements which i had indicated in the draft opinion for the committee on the environment.
one of the main barriers to reindustrialisation in europe is the rising cost of energy for industry, which is making european companies less competitive on the global market.
opponents of a new industrial strategy for europe doubt that energy prices can be brought down, and say that we are doomed to see them rise.
the united states has proven that it is possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions while reducing energy costs.
in addition, existing energy and climate change legislation is subject to frequent changes, with negative impacts particularly on the most energy-intensive industrial sectors.
one example is the recent decision by parliament on administrative interference in the emissions trading system.
industrial policy must take account of europe's energy security.
the cost of energy, materials, raw materials and production is increasing.
this can only be remedied by product innovation and energy, material and organisational efficiency technologies and efficient business procedures.
this is particularly true in various aspects, such as the energy-intensive industry.
unfortunately, the policy of reducing co2 emissions inevitably leads to a decline in the competitiveness of european industry.
finally, the cream of the crop of the energy and climate package.
what kind of crazy person came up with the idea of europe bleeding to death, of europe spending billions of euros to reduce co2 emissions, when most of the world - brazil, russia, china, india, the united states, canada - don't care about the kyoto protocol and emit more co2?
i support the rapporteur's suggestion to specify and clarify the requirements contained in the technical specifications of the environmental or safety requirements of the contract in question.
in addition, the rules on grounds for refusal of a contract should take account of shortcomings in the areas of social, labour and environmental law.
we also need to eliminate the lowest price as the deciding factor for the selection of the most advantageous offer and replace this criterion with the most economically advantageous offer, where social and environmental aspects are also taken into account.
we are all aware of the role and importance of public procurement in our economy, as it is one of the market tools needed to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the authorities will now be able to take into account criteria such as quality and environmental impact, in addition to the social criteria already mentioned.
given the current direction of eu policy, environmental protection and broadly sustainable development objectives are among the most relevant.
− the main legal acts adopted at eu level governing public procurement policy are: directive 2004/18/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 on the coordination of procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts and directive 2004/17/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 31 march 2004 coordinating the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
the directives explain how contracting authorities can contribute to the protection of the environment and the promotion of sustainable development by indicating the environmental criteria for evaluating tenders, environmental management systems and measures, including the eco-label, that can be used for this purpose.
− public procurement plays a key role in improving the business environment and the conditions for innovation in enterprises.
in order to exploit the full potential of public procurement in the single market to promote sustainable development, employment and social inclusion, the new rules simplify procedures, make them more flexible and accessible, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises.
the rules demonstrate a determination to ensure equal treatment and therefore a level playing field for operators in today's global trading environment.
this regulation implements the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (com (2010) 2020) and the europe 2020 flagship initiative integrated industrial policy in the globalisation era (com (2010) 614) and also implements the single market act (com (2011) 206).
this is the main strategic framework for the european union – not only for the commission – to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive goals and, within that context, to fight all forms of poverty, including homelessness.
this debate is a waste of time and money.
- i voted in favour of the report on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainable growth.
the reindustrialisation plan must aim to reduce energy and resource costs, making european industry more competitive.
- i welcomed the fact that the european parliament had adopted a resolution on reindustrialising europe to support its competitiveness and sustainable development.
the resolution draws attention to the fact that the availability of energy is a fundamental element of the strategy of industrialization.
as i mentioned in the debate, it is the continuing rise in energy prices that is one of the main barriers to the reindustrialisation of europe, reducing the competitiveness of european companies on the global market.
in addition, the burden of energy costs and the resulting complexity and instability of european regulation are contributing to the relocation of industrial enterprises outside the european union.
this situation could only be remedied by product innovation, which depends on energy, material and organisational efficient technologies and efficient business processes.
for construction; it applies to local energy.
a comprehensive strategy for growth and sustainable investment leading to economic recovery is therefore needed.
european industrial policy must focus on challenges such as: lack of investment in research and development, rising energy prices, red tape and difficulties in accessing finance, lack of adequately qualified workers.
the rise industrial recovery strategy for a sustainable europe should support technological, business, financial, environmental and social innovation, while leading to the emergence of new innovative products and services, new business models and creative entrepreneurs and enterprises, the creation of new jobs and decent work, and contributing to industrial renewal, economic dynamism, consumer confidence and competitiveness.
we should now focus not only on providing a favourable framework for the development of industry from the regional to the eu level, but also on working with the sector to move towards a low-carbon economy.
factors such as development, environmental protection and necessary investments should be weighed.
in view of the particular attention paid in the countries of the union to the environment and to the protection of the health and life of citizens, attention to industrial development must go hand in hand with investment in innovative solutions and the upgrading of the level of qualification of specialists.
a prime example is the lack of consensus on energy issues.
the energy and climate package is particularly dangerous.
they will cause energy prices to rise and industry to continue to flee abroad.
the additional environmental standards, plus the administrative burden, mean that entrepreneurs spend their time filling out paperwork instead of thinking about development.
coincidentally poles have been singled out as one group that is taking full advantage of this freedom and is somehow blamed for problems in their new environment.
the constructive approach taken by the serbian authorities in relations with its neighbours, which translates into progress in regional cooperation and energy policy, should be commended.
this growth is most visible in the context of environmental protection, the internal market and transport, as eva lichtenberger mentioned, and therefore in the areas closest to our citizens.
second, ukraine has not started the process of diversifying its energy supply.
i therefore fully agree with the commission's assumption, which was the basis for this document, that an effective and independent judicial system and predictable, timely and enforceable judgments are important elements of an attractive business environment that positively affects market development and investment growth.
third, the production of public goods for the environment, the maintenance of the landscape or biodiversity requires the creation of a system of valuation of these activities and the establishment of forms of payment for these products.
to counteract this, it is necessary to create good, sustainable prospects for this group of farms, including in the area of agricultural production, as well as the possibility of obtaining additional sources of income outside agriculture, as i have already mentioned.
farms up to 10 hectares are exempt from crop diversification, up to 15 hectares do not have to exclude the so-called ecological area.
they are a benefit because they provide self-sufficiency, they provide self-employment, they have a positive impact on the environment, the landscape, they keep difficult areas alive, especially mountainous areas and the like.
this is reflected in petitions from eu citizens and residents, showing the number of breaches of eu law, especially in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights, and proving that incomplete transposition or incorrect application of eu law continues to be a problem in many eu member states.
- energy security is one of our priorities.
this is particularly important given the european union's dependence on external energy sources, including russia.
this will enable the product demand and the possible modification of energy supply sources to be determined efficiently.
i therefore believe that the obligation for member states to report on possible plans, investments and other details of energy security in each country is justified.
at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the increasingly popular use of alternative energy sources.
- i voted in favour of the report on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the eu because i have no doubt that the eu needs a general oversight of the energy market in europe.
time has changed the priorities, the military is not as important, energy stability is definitely coming to the fore.
today, the countries themselves are pursuing energy policies which are not conducive to achieving satisfactory results in the context of what i have just mentioned.
the very idea of informing the commission about the energy situation does not change much, but i believe that this is the first step towards being able to enjoy the benefits of the single energy market in the european union in the future.
- in many countries, pension funds invest in energy grids.
it is a pity that the opportunity for a powerful investment boost for infrastructure, especially energy and heating networks, was wasted.
the commission emphasises that the scope of the table covers those elements of the justice system which contribute to improving the business and investment climate, and thus relates in particular to civil and commercial and administrative (not criminal) procedural matters, thus falling within the framework of the european semester, the europe 2020 strategy, the strengthening of the single market and the eu action programme for citizens.
they are the result of intensive technological progress in the information and communication sector and the desire of individual regions to ensure a stable energy supply while maintaining sustainable development.
investments in the development of smart grids in the union bring a number of benefits, such as lower energy prices, increased share of renewable energy, reduced greenhouse gas emissions and development of the research and innovation sector.
the use of these energy networks is particularly important in disadvantaged regions and island areas where they can bring significant economic benefits and ensure security of energy supply.
moreover, the efficiency of these systems will be enhanced if we link their development to the housing, transport, environment and spatial planning sectors.
i believe that investing in smart energy systems in individual regions of europe will guarantee the security of energy supply to individual households, while making more efficient use of it for local needs, and at the same time will contribute to the creation of many new jobs.
- in the coming years, eu regions will have to find a way to ensure a stable, affordable and secure energy supply.
in an era of rising energy prices and a world facing climate change, the challenge of establishing a reliable energy supply system is a major one.
in the new financial perspective 2014-2020, we will focus on supporting the energy market transformation with a view to achieving a low-carbon economy in all sectors, using cohesion policy funds.
a large-scale information and promotion campaign to encourage the public to use renewable energy sources will play an important role, including by educating eu citizens on how to use the lowest possible prices and save energy while improving efficiency.
smart grids mean security of energy supply and a significant reduction in dependence on fossil fuels, as well as the creation of new jobs.
they are more environmentally friendly, contribute to the maintenance of the landscape and biodiversity.
i believe that the steel industry is of great importance for the union's sustainable economic growth, which is why i voted today to implement an action strategy to strengthen its competitiveness and innovation in europe.
i also believe that the functioning of such an energy-intensive industry is dependent on the maintenance of a single energy market that guarantees a sustainable supply of energy at competitive prices throughout the union.
steel is the primary material of material production, and steel production is a source of co2 emissions, because ore is reduced to elemental carbon in large furnaces, and the by-product is co2 emissions, and scrap metal processing is an energy-intensive process, so again, emissions... the commission's paper says that the eu should be based on recycling, but i warn against getting excited about recycled metal.
it should be noted that third countries (not subject to climate policy) exporting raw materials are expanding their market access strategies.
it is also essential to continue investing in development, research and innovation to support competitive and sustainable production.
on 10 june 2013, the european commission launched the 'action plan for a sustainable and competitive steel industry in europe'.
however, one of the major challenges for the european steel industry in the coming years will be to plan for the future by engaging in dialogue with employees, analysing environmental impacts and securing further outlets.
i voted in favour of the report, which sets out actions to ensure a framework favourable to the development of a competitive and sustainable steel industry, so that it is able to tackle the structural problems it faces, compete on a global scale and develop a new generation of steel products that are essential for other key european industries.
for many years the european commission considered that the steel sector was doing well and did not need any state or commission support, and was able to accept new, sometimes very costly, obligations imposed on it, including taxes closely linked to the increasingly stringent climate policy of the european union.
the priority for the european union should be to prevent energy price increases, not to compensate for them.
the importance of the energy price level for the competitiveness of the steel sector is illustrated by the fact that the energy price represents around 40% of the total operating costs.
in this context, it is particularly important to identify the factors that drive higher energy prices and then to eliminate those that result from climate policy.
on behalf of the freedom and democracy group, i object to the proposal by the environment committee and the environment commissioner to shorten the period of opposition to the european commission's backloading initiative.
today, when energy prices in the united states are twice as cheap as in europe, we should do everything we can to take action in the opposite direction in terms of effect, i.e.
mr president, if we want a competitive economy that creates jobs, we simply cannot have the highest energy prices in the world.
we cannot provide preferential access to our market to countries that have much cheaper energy prices and do not impose any of the same regulatory burdens on their companies.
i wanted to ask my colleague if we have all the information on the state of our industry in europe, the state of our economies and if all these points that we are proposing at the moment fit into the state of our energy and, above all, the industry that is to benefit from this energy?
and we continue to promise ourselves, the european economy, the european citizens, at the beginning of this report, that this new climate policy will be realistic, it will be flexible, it will be cheaper.
in particular, it is not realistic, given the fact that europe continues to pursue a unilateral climate policy.
the introduction of binding targets for the share of energy from renewable sources, as well as for energy efficiency, is not a flexible solution.
we know that member states and sectors of the economy have very different potential in this respect, for example our energy-intensive industry is already one of the most energy-efficient in the world.
of course, partly because of taxes, partly because of para-taxation, but climate policy has a very important role to play here.
the most advanced renewable technologies today can replace, eliminate, a ton of co2 emissions in electricity production at a cost of 200 euros.
other technologies, such as photovoltaics or offshore wind, cost between 500 and 900 euros per tonne of co2 emissions.
and then there's the environmental costs, which we don't like to talk about.
the environmental costs of such a policy are very obvious.
this energy - renewable energy - is volatile, it's unpredictable, so there's a conventional power plant somewhere in the back that has to be running all the time.
i don't think there's a worse model, from an environmental standpoint, and also from a business standpoint, than to produce energy just in case.
our energy and climate package was designed to ensure our sustainable development, to ensure our energy security, and ultimately to ensure the competitiveness of our economy.
that balance has been broken today in favor of environmental goals.
this policy must be flexible for both countries and sectors of the economy; finally, this policy must be a policy of low energy prices.
otherwise, the balance between business and environmental objectives will continue to be broken.
the 2008 climate package included a condition for changing the targets, namely a binding commitment by other world economies to introduce a similar reduction in targets that would be in line with the european union's course of action.
the package adopted in 2008 explicitly states that the targets will not be changed unless there is a binding commitment from the world's other largest economies, such as the united states, china, russia, india and brazil, to reduce co2 emissions.
although this was agreed in a fragile compromise in 2008, the european union is proposing further restrictions, further reductions in co2 emissions, which will inevitably lead to a further reduction in the competitiveness of the european economy and will have a negative impact on the industrialization process of our continent.
one thing is certain: these measures will be effective in that they will significantly raise energy prices in europe relative to energy in other competitive parts of the world where economies are developing.
this in turn will inevitably and effectively lead to the exit of energy-intensive industries such as steel from the european union.
this will of course be followed by an increase in unemployment, an increase in social costs for individual member states and, as a result, of course, also a significant reduction in the budgetary contributions from these energy-intensive sectors that such contributions would bring.
the european union now needs a more robust analysis of the energy market situation after the adoption of the 3x20 targets to combat climate change.
instead, new reduction targets are being pushed, with no guarantee that a global agreement will be reached by all parties at the un conference in paris in 2015. the unilateral reduction targets adopted by europe are already causing the chemical industry to flee to the united states, for example, where shale gas makes energy cheap and co2 emissions fall.
in many european countries, climate change policies are having the opposite effect, increasing co2 emissions and the use of cheap coal in old coal-fired power plants, while new gas-fired power plants are being left behind because of gas prices.
the european commission is currently reviewing the energy policies of the member states and assessing which renewable energy projects are realistic, effective and do not lead to drastic increases in energy prices.
the french court of auditors has been highly critical of france's climate change policy.
environmental and climate protection must never be removed from our key priorities, but the real challenges facing europe are climate change, the growing demand for energy and the price of energy.
we're still not doing enough to protect the environment, but we're also not doing enough to help the economy and create jobs.
we should not fight climate change by imposing draconian carbon limits on countries.
this path only leads to economic hardship, especially in countries like poland, and it also builds a negative message, a negative perception of the eu's climate policy among all citizens in europe.
in my country, poland, the government has been promising for many years that it will be preparing a law on renewable energy sources.
in europe, energy prices have increased by 35% since 2005, while in the united states they have fallen by 4%.
the eu is the only region in the world to have reduced its emissions by 18%, and on a global scale, emissions have increased by as much as half.
in its 2030 targets, the european union should not unilaterally support climate policy and further increase reduction targets.
the commission should be able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection of the union's forests and ecosystems.
the current primacy of climate policy over industrial policy threatens the achievement of the latter's objectives and causes the reductions in emissions from the territories of the union countries to be achieved at the expense of the competitive position of european industry and the high price of energy.
in adopting such an important document as the 2030 strategy for climate and energy policy, we are aware that we need to set some priorities.
first of all, each country has different conditions and possibilities to achieve, for example, emission reductions: some countries can do it through renewable energy, others can do it through greater efficiency, but for example, poland can do it through shale gas.
it's not just taxes that are responsible for the fact that we pay so much for energy in the european union.
taxes have always been there, and energy prices have increased by 38% between 2005 and 2012. if someone doesn't want to acknowledge that climate policy played a role, it means they want to ideologise the debate.
similarly, only ideology can explain the fact that half of this parliament does not want to accept that renewable energy is not free.
these are energy sources that generate enormous costs.
on the one hand, these are sources that are unstable, and therefore we have to double energy production, even by the most conventional methods.
all of these are system costs that are often many times higher than any other energy source.
i have to say, i'm a little amused by the greens' fascination with the energy policy of the people's republic of china.
what the chinese consider to be climate policy is fiscal policy, calculated to benefit the budget of the people's republic of china.
it's industrial policy, after all, designed to shift the energy system from coal to gas.
if we could save bmw, then maybe we can save some of the energy and energy-intensive industries in the european union.
we have to find a good way to balance competitiveness, security and the sustainability of our economy, and that takes time.
we argue on the a priori assumption that anthropogenic co2 emissions are the main culprit of climate change.
however, assuming that it contains some rational premise, i would point out that: first, the eu's ambition concerns about 10% of global co2 emissions and reducing it will not affect the climate.
even assuming that the ipcc is correct, the insistence on plans for 2030 and beyond is reckless, cynical or foolish for those who insist on doing so at the expense of the european economy and its competitiveness; secondly, the alternative to the current energy model imposed on member states in the form of a single-unit paradigm for distributed renewable energy is unrealistic and irrational.
the authors of this proposal make a methodological error, because renewable energy in europe is unevenly distributed; thirdly, the european emissions trading system as a purported market tool does not meet the intended objectives.
it ignores the role of agriculture and forestry in actively reducing the emissions of a gas that is essential to life on our planet.
i hope that cooperation on energy, natural resources, but also climate change and environmental protection will be mutually beneficial.
nevertheless, i believe that the control of the trade in conventional weapons will have a positive impact on the international environment.
- the largest amount of money, some 4.3 billion out of almost 6.4 billion euros, will go to sustainable fisheries between 2014 and 2020, i.e.
and so we'll waste time now that people are standing in the streets, because we'll be wondering, dividing our hair in four, what the constitution in ukraine should be.
it is also important to call for not using energy for political struggle, and i know that russia tends to use this very area of its economy for political influence.
yesterday, before the final vote on the report on climate and energy policy up to 2030, the proceedings i was conducting prevented me from giving an opinion on the final shape of the report.
the backloading issue is extremely important and burdensome in its effects on european industry, leading to higher energy prices, leading to higher production costs and consequently higher unemployment.
energy and climate policy is one of the key activities both in the economic sphere and for the energy security of the community.
i believe that the greenhouse gas reduction ceilings already in place are too high, are being implemented at the expense of other projects and are imposing an undue burden on businesses.
the results of international negotiations on climate packages and agreements on this matter should also be awaited.
- global warming is one of the biggest challenges facing the developed world today.
according to un data, global co2 emissions increased by more than 50% between 1990 and 2010. the report adopted today sets out the eu's long-term policy for the new 2030 framework for climate and energy policy, which will replace the existing 2020 framework.
the resolution calls on the member states to reduce co2 emissions by at least 40%, to obtain 30% of energy from renewable sources and to achieve 40% energy efficiency.
i support strengthening climate policy and investing in renewable energy, but i believe that the dual goal of reducing emissions after 2020 is unrealistic and could reduce the competitiveness of european industry.
and it is european governments that should set their own national targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i also agree with the comments that a specific co2 emission reduction ceiling should only be set after the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change in paris in 2015, where the most responsible emitters will set their binding targets.
over the north sea or the baltic, as well as those installed directly on those waters; greater attention to undervalued and under-researched energy sources; a shift away from the rhetorical doctrine of total decarbonisation of the economy to a reduction in gross emissions per unit of gdp; the need to take account of the energy policy objectives of the eu's primary energy source, i.e.
the ets, and the need to increase the eu's carbon dioxide emissions by 3%, in line with the current policy; a shift away from the rhetorical doctrine of a total decarbonisation of the economy to a reduction in the energy efficiency of the eu's primary energy source, i.e.
the eu's primary energy policy, and the need to increase its carbon dioxide emissions by 3%, based on the current policy; a shift away from the political need to a political and technological policy of absorption of carbon dioxide.
i also pointed out that it is currently unrealistic to push for a single eu-wide energy paradigm based solely on renewable energy sources, because a methodological error is being made due to the fact that the distribution of these sources is uneven.
the debate on the strategic climate policy post-2020 should be left to the next parliamentary term, and it should be a substantive debate, taking into account environmental and climate objectives, but also the impact of their introduction on the competitiveness of the european economy and energy prices.
we must not forget that, paradoxically, europe's overly strict climate standards may contribute to the global increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
i fear that the european socialists and the greens, by setting out ambitious climate targets, will lead to a repeat of the lisbon strategy or the collapse of the european economy.
and they're not going to save the climate, because the industry that leaves europe will be emitting even more greenhouse gases outside the eu.
- we want to fight climate change.
we want to develop the renewable energy sector.
we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
these are all noble goals, and we're committed to protecting the environment and ensuring access to clean energy for future generations.
but when we implement solutions such as emissions trading, the use of a specific level of biofuels in transport or 'greening' agriculture, we cannot be guided by purely utopian motives.
we need to look at the state of the economy, the energy sector, transport and agriculture here and now, look at the differences between the different regions of europe, and think about how to protect the earth's ecosystems without causing economic disaster in some countries.
if a country's energy is based on coal, we cannot expect that country to radically transform its energy sector in a few years without disastrous consequences for the economy.
we cannot ask the government of a country like that to take hundreds of thousands of jobs away from climate targets, to have farmers modernize their farms and change their business profile in an instant, and to have entrepreneurs abandon investments that were started just a few years ago and make new ones to change technology in a flash.
i believe that it will have a negative impact on the negotiating position of the polish government at the next climate summits and will contribute to the further elimination of coal as an energy source, which in turn will hit the polish economy.
the drastic reduction of co2 emissions that the report proposes and the total elimination of coal from the energy sector after 2050 are contrary to poland's interests.
this will further depend on russian gas supplies for the energy sector and drive up the price of co2 trading.
we cannot allow future generations of poles to pay for the reckless and top-down climate policy goals of europe.
- the resolution adopted by parliament setting climate and energy targets for 2030, despite the deletion of some harmful provisions, is in my opinion completely detached from reality.
it seems that, in the absence of similar action by the major global polluters, our efforts will only result in losses to europe's economy, with no measurable results in terms of climate protection.
this is shown by the fact that the eu is the only country in the world that has reduced its emissions, but that the global emissions have risen by half!
here it is worth considering how the above-mentioned climate demands fit into the european commission's recently announced strategy for the reindustrialisation of europe, which aims to increase the share of industry in the economy to 20% within the next 7 years.
- this own-initiative report is intended to guide the commission's further action on future binding 2030 climate and energy policy targets.
the current regulations in the so-called climate and energy package have already caused a lot of damage.
it is clear that the commission, under the influence of certain lobby groups, is determined to take action that is harmful to the economies of the most economically weak countries, in the name of the climate dogma and the interests of certain environments.
the objective of directive 2003/87/ec was to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not the high price of the emission allowances themselves.
- european climate policy is in a transitional phase.
the two main ideas underlying it the widespread use of renewable energy sources (res) and the reduction of co2 emissions have not been properly implemented.
energy cooperation between the eu and russia is also not without its friction.
the eu is the most important consumer of russian energy resources.
i also look forward to deepening economic cooperation with macedonia and to the benefits of joint action on energy security.
only a solution based on respect for the law, democratic principles and the political will of the thai people will be sustainable.
the legislation that calls for a reduction in the carbon emissions of new passenger cars to 95 grams of carbon dioxide per kilometer by 2020, coupled with changes in production and so-called super-units, is the beginning of a so-called revolution.
and the important thing is that this is driven, in a sense, by the climate itself, but it's also driven by new activities, like the fuel prices that are in place right now.
co2 emissions are a measure of fuel consumption and vehicle economy.
in the derived calculation, this is the co2 emissions from combustion, car manufacturing and dismantling.
supercredit is a good incentive for companies looking for energy-efficient technologies.
the lack of competitiveness of the european automotive industry results in the relocation of automotive production to third countries not burdened by the commitments under the climate and energy package.
perhaps the solution for the eu, based on pro-environmental law, would be to tighten up the admission criteria in the member states.
i'm thinking about the energy sector, transportation, services and the digital market.
however, the full functioning of the single market is necessary to reap the full benefits of structural reforms in individual countries and across the union, and to ensure sustainable economic growth.
as meps have increasing powers, their work has an impact on all areas of citizens' daily lives: the environment, consumer protection, transport, but also education, culture, health, etc.
this is the optimal approach to rationally reduce emissions from new cars.
- the regulations on emissions to the environment apply to new passenger cars.
equally important for citizens is the fact that it is the manufacturers who will be obliged to reduce emissions, which will consequently translate into lower fuel consumption for new vehicles, which will also have a positive impact on consumer spending in the long term.
the aim is to reduce emissions from new passenger cars to an average of 130 grams of co2 per kilometre between 2012 and 2015 and 95g/km by 2020. the current commission proposal sets out ways to achieve the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
reducing co2 emissions from passenger cars is good for consumers and the environment.
- we must remember what the main objective is, which is to reduce co2 emissions effectively.
regardless of how ccs technology develops, the european union must also pursue its renewable energy goals.
the rapporteur wants to achieve climate goals only through the use of nuclear energy and ccs.
however, due to their specific nature, they can unfortunately pose a risk to humans and the environment and therefore require appropriate certification.
it is also necessary to implement alignment on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures in order to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the biocidal products regulation combines a high level of protection of human health and the environment with clear rules for manufacturers, which are necessary to promote competitiveness and innovation.
the adoption of the new stability pact by the european commission marks the beginning of the fourth european semester of economic policy-making in an environment of renewed growth and gradual adjustment by member states to pre-crisis imbalances.
the report places a great deal of emphasis on the protection of biodiversity and the avoidance of interference with genetic material.
the preservation of existing regional crop species adapted to the local climate, as well as sustainable methods of increasing yields, are absolute priorities.
this shows how the world leaders of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development, which aims to raise the need to build a green economy, as a sustainable development and to eradicate poverty in the world, are looking to the future.
but it will be to the benefit of passengers, rail staff, taxpayers and – since rail is a relatively clean form of transport – ultimately also the environment.
we're interested in a sustainable transport system, which means more rail.
at the same time, i would draw your attention to the opinion of the economic and social committee, which in its assessment of the impact of the railway package called for member states to retain the possibility of organising their own national railway systems and opening up the national market to competition in accordance with their economic, geographical, demographic and historical situation and their economic, social and environmental conditions.
we should all thank our colleague françoise for putting a lot of heart and energy into this document.
i agree with the rapporteurs that this ground-breaking initiative will significantly facilitate the development of cross-border trade, improving the situation of consumers and businesses operating in the new digital trading environment.
we need common rules on environmental policy and, at the end of the day, we need the courage for big projects like the trans-european networks, including railways, highways, water corridors and so on, even if such long-term projects lie beyond the horizon of political thinking, which is usually only four years ahead.
i agree with the idea of increasing the role of the single market in the european semester, particularly in areas which can significantly improve the competitiveness of european economies, such as energy and transport.
unfortunately, the seventh and eighth progress reports show little progress towards economic growth that can be characterised as smart, sustainable and inclusive.
- for poland, cohesion policy will continue to be the main source of public funding in 2014-2020 in areas such as employment (especially youth employment), labour mobility, education and training, smes, research, technological development and innovation, ict, sustainable transport, energy, environment, urban and big city development, among others.
cohesion policy also plays a key role in enhancing the competitiveness of the european union by focusing on policy areas that ensure sustainable, good quality employment and social inclusion, which is particularly important in the face of the economic crisis.
in response to these challenges, the european union adopted in 2010 a new 'europe 2020' strategy for sustainable development and employment, which supports actions to boost growth and create jobs.
and it's not climate change, and it's not poor competitiveness in global trade.
- rail is one of the safest modes of transport, but further action is needed to ensure even better protection of passengers, human life, public health and the environment.
it has been rightly said that without a well-functioning health sector, it is difficult to talk about sustainable economic growth.
i believe that additional emphasis should be placed on the fight against chronic diseases, those associated with ageing, and sustainable nutrition and physical activity.
the report, which relates to the mining industry, comprehensively analyses political, social, economic and environmental factors.
let's not waste the european chance for a free ukraine, which will be pro-european and independent of russia.
ukraine should be included in major european projects such as trans-european transport and energy networks.
it may also have debt problems with energy suppliers.
in addition to economic aid and the involvement of international and european financial institutions, energy cooperation is also needed.
the victims of the maidan cannot be allowed to go to waste.
beyond the commercial aspects, it is an expression of efforts to improve sustainable forest management on a global scale.
mr president, on behalf of the ppe group i would like to propose an oral amendment which is about energy cooperation; a very important issue.
the amendment is as follows: ‘stresses the importance of secure, diversified and affordable energy supply as a pillar of economic, social and political transition and of securing a competitive and prosperous economy for all ukrainians; in this regard underlines the strategic role of the energy community, of which ukraine holds presidency in 2014, as the only treaty currently connecting ukraine and the european union’.
creating the need for increased consumption this increases demand, and therefore gives additional income and is also important for the health of consumers; preferring more ecological production methods, and therefore using less chemicals.
another issue is energy.
we, by diversifying the energy sources, the energy supply, can give them the freedom to act.
- the issue of biodiversity and endangered species is of great importance to many sectors of the european union.
- a brief history of the draft regulation shows that the environment of farmers, hobbyists and environmental organisations can provide meps, who rarely deal with seeds on a daily basis, with sufficient factual arguments to make sensible decisions.
however, the debate on seed regulation will not end soon, and the fight for the rights of small seed producers and the preservation of biodiversity will continue.
many of these resources come from key biodiversity areas in developing countries.
these changes are intended to improve road safety and the environment.
- this report is part of a larger roadworthiness package to improve road safety and environmental protection.
it is important that a vehicle meets the relevant type-approval or individual approval requirements before it is placed on the market, in order to ensure an optimal level of safety and environmental performance.
- i voted in favour of mrs savisaar-toomast's report in order to improve road safety while at the same time protecting the environment.
as regards the registration of the vehicle, it must meet all the type-approval parameters that ensure an optimum level of safety and environmental standards.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- e-invoicing is an important step towards electronic document circulation in public administration (e-government) in europe one of the priorities of the digital agenda and can bring significant benefits to both the economy and the environment.
the information obtained will be used, among others, for: • monitoring changes in the structure of agricultural holdings; • preparing a cross-sectional characterisation of agricultural holdings; • developing a typology of agricultural holdings (definition of agricultural type and economic size); • assessing the environmental impact of agriculture; • describing rural areas; • comparing polish agricultural holdings with those of other eu countries.
it also stresses the need to reintroduce the amendment on the single common organisation of the markets, which is intended to guarantee that imported goods meet quality and environmental standards, which is crucial for ensuring stability in the agricultural sector.
it is necessary to effectively counter the manifestations of food safety infringements, which should be met by an increase in customs duties on products that do not comply with union environmental, social and animal welfare standards.
in the current delicate economic situation, we need more effective tools to assess the impact of imports of certain goods based on eu environmental and health standards.
our investments have supported actions for sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment; from athens to zaragoza, we have served the european economy, while in non-eu countries we have contributed to the union's objectives.
- gender equality is not only a matter of diversity and social justice, but also a prerequisite for achieving the goals of sustainable economic growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion.
investing in gender equality policies results in higher female employment rates, higher female share of gdp, tax revenues and sustainable fertility rates.
the committee on petitions has devoted more time to debates on environmental issues than to any other sector of activity.
horticulture is highly sensitive to weather conditions, which is particularly evident in the context of climate change; in addition, the economic crisis has reduced consumption, reduced the supply of fresh fruit and vegetables and, consequently, reduced investment in the development of the sector.
the proposed regulation is part of the programme for climate protection and the fight against climate change.
finding alternatives to most of the substances that are currently depleting the ozone layer is a priority for the european union.
protecting the environment and preventing further degradation by reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires reducing current emissions by as much as 95% by 2050. by 2030, the reduction must be as much as 72-73%.
the proposal to introduce a system of producer responsibility for the recovery, recycling, recovery or destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases is noteworthy.
the current state of greenhouse gas emissions requires immediate reduction actions and i hope that the finally agreed text will allow the intended short and long-term targets to be effectively achieved.
a very good summary of the topics for the european council: on the one hand, the situation in ukraine, on the other, energy and climate.
security of energy supply and diversification in the context of the crisis in ukraine and the invasion of the neighbourhood is gaining particular prominence.
let us also ask ourselves: where does the european union source its primary energy resources?
at the same time, climate policy will be the focus of the meeting.
the energy basket should be shaped with the full freedom of the member states.
the current political situation in ukraine and the recurring insecurity of gas supplies to europe from russia point to energy policy challenges in the days leading up to the european council.
the recent collapse of the world economy, from which we are still trying to recover, has increased uncertainty and highlighted the weaknesses of individual countries in energy security and environmental protection.
countries, either alone or in alliances, are reviewing the fundamentals of their energy policies.
the terms 'green economy' and 'reducing co2 emissions' have become part of the political vocabulary.
so what are the key trends in the ever-evolving scenario that will determine the future energy policy of the european union until 2030?
energy, the environment and the economy are interconnected.
the common energy policy must be and will be europe's next great integration project, taking into account: • fossil fuels, which will remain crucial for some time to come; • the growing demand for energy, accompanied by the growing need for energy saving and energy efficiency; • the shift of the global economic centre of gravity towards asia, due to china and india, which will have long-term political and energy consequences; • solidarity between member states in the field of energy priorities.
there must be a fundamental reorientation of europe's energy supply from east to west.
we - among others, the poles - were right when we spoke much earlier about ukraine's openness to european aspirations, about the need to build a common european energy policy, about the strategic importance of diversifying energy sources.
the cooperation and cooperation agreement aims primarily at enhancing cooperation between the union and thailand in the fields of tourism, education, migration, transport and the environment.
- finding alternatives to most of the substances currently depleting the ozone layer and strengthening competitiveness in the field of innovative refrigeration, air-conditioning and heating technologies are among the priorities of the european union.
according to previous eu guidelines, protecting and preventing further environmental degradation by reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires reducing current emissions by up to 95% by 2050. and in less than 16 years, by 2030, the reduction must be as much as 72-73%.
the proposal to introduce a system of producer responsibility for the recovery, recycling, recovery or destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases is noteworthy.
the current state of greenhouse gas emissions requires immediate reduction actions and i hope that the finally agreed text will allow the intended short and long-term targets to be effectively achieved.
- fluorinated greenhouse gases are a group of chemicals that contain fluorine.
although these gases are present in very low concentrations in the atmosphere, their emissions are similar to those of greenhouse gases and contribute 14% to the current warming trend.
all greenhouse gases are related to human activity.
the european union has adopted measures to regulate emissions of certain greenhouse gases under its obligations under the kyoto protocol.
the european commission's main objective is to reduce their volume and thus contribute to the reduction of fluorinated gas emissions.
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, the eu has set up a market trading system, with specific rules for fluorinated greenhouse gases.
environmental impact assessment should therefore be mandatory for all projects related to the extraction and exploration of unconventional hydrocarbons (shale gas and oil, coalbed methane, etc.
the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive covers a wide range of public and private projects.
unfortunately, the previous amendments were dropped: aimed at deleting the provisions related to the environmental analysis at the exploration stage, concerning the environmental assessment only for extraction above 500[nbsp ]000 cubic metres.
- the protection of the environment is one of the fundamental duties of every citizen of the european union, regardless of his or her profession or material status.
how we treat the environment now will determine the world in which future generations will live.
the ideal is a 'green economy' with sustainable projects that are developed in terms of their impact on resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss.
- the discovery of unconventional energy hydrocarbon deposits, such as shale gas, in selected eu countries and the emergence of economic methods of extracting them have created the need for comprehensive regulation of this issue.
the aim is to strike a delicate balance between ensuring high environmental standards and reducing the level of risk incurred by private operators exploring and subsequently exploiting unconventional hydrocarbon deposits.
it provides an incentive for investors by avoiding the need to carry out a complex environmental impact assessment for each well, which would only hinder the potential benefits that shale gas can bring to europe.
on the other hand, any operator exploring for oil reserves must make every effort to ensure that the environment is not harmed by the exploration for hydrocarbons for energy.
i nevertheless insist that any decision to start the industrial exploitation of the reservoir be preceded by an environmental impact assessment and be made in accordance with the most far-reaching conservation measures.
moreover, i take this opportunity to once again appeal to the polish government to fulfil its obligation to adopt the renewable energy sources act.
- environmental impact assessment (eia) is a process that ensures that environmental impacts are taken into account before decisions are made on the development of a site or the implementation of a project.
the basic requirements for environmental impact assessments are laid down in the environmental impact assessment directive.
it is based on the promotion of european values: peace, solidarity, democracy and sustainable economic growth, and[nbsp ]its aim is to strengthen the integration of the eastern partners in the political, economic and cultural dimensions.
it has thus abandoned its support for the countries which are geostrategically most important to us, since they allow us to build energy independence, for example through the nabuco pipeline project.
the most important of these are the raw materials and energy factors, the northern passage and the military factor in the far north.
the european union is committed to supporting the development of the union's energy sector, including through the development of the european energy charter.
i would therefore like to say that it is in the interest of all citizens, including poland, to ensure that the budget is financed in a sustainable, independent and simplified manner, something which we simply do not have today.
the obligation to produce compatible chargers will bring significant benefits to consumers and significantly reduce e-waste
in writing.
- at this stage, the administration expects that the 2015 budget, as in previous years, will continue to be worked on in a climate of budgetary austerity.
in the current geopolitical environment, we have a duty as an international community to take patronage of ukrainian activities.
- the european union established a strategy for sustainable development in may 2001. in adopting this strategy, the gothenburg european council recognised the need to develop the eu's external dimension.
the council also asked the commission to reconsider the union's commitment to sustainable development worldwide.
this communication responds to this request and contributes to the eu position at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg in 2002. the communication is based on the premise that globalisation is a powerful driver for global growth and[nbsp]for finding solutions to global problems such as health, education and the environment.
however, left to their own devices, market forces create and reinforce inequalities, create social exclusion and can cause lasting environmental damage.
in the key areas of trade, development finance, environmental governance, the fight against poverty and crime, it is necessary to continue efforts to develop common rules which should be effectively implemented and monitored.
first of all, european policies - including foreign and security policy, trade, agriculture and climate - have a huge impact on the situation of developing countries and should therefore be designed to support the development of the global south, or at least not to hinder efforts to reduce poverty in these countries.
the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee decided to cancel its trip to russia and talks with representatives of the duma, considering that there was no suitable political climate for talks.
last year, there were more than 250 attacks on egyptian security forces and energy infrastructure, killing more than 100 people.
global warming is one of the greatest challenges facing developed countries and can only be tackled through concrete international action.
aviation is responsible for about 3% of total greenhouse gas emissions, and these levels are rising rapidly.
in this context, the european commission should engage in talks with third countries promoting accession to the emissions trading scheme in the years leading up to the global agreement.
the question is whether we will be united in our diversity, because besides the annexation of crimea, the military threat, we also have the problem of energy security and economic relations.
the question is, are we ready for an energy community, for example?
on the other hand, i agree with the idea of our report that iran is a sufficiently important country in that part of europe that we must try to bring iran gradually into international cooperation, as the talks with iran progress, of course, as the talks on nuclear energy progress.
equally important, the report asks to define and organise the public service broadcasting remit to develop an independent and professional broadcasting media environment in third countries too.
this regulation will help the environment by limiting air and noise pollution levels.
i feel strongly that nuclear power is a vital and important tool for the production of energy and feel just as strong about using it safely and efficiently.
- the proposed changes to the emissions allowances will facilitate eu air carriers' negotiations on a global emissions agreement planned for 2016. the agreement contains several key elements, such as the definition of the duration of the intra-european scope.
- climate change and greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are two interrelated problems that need to be tackled on a global scale.
the goal is to drastically reduce global emissions by 2050 to keep global temperature change within 2 degrees.
this requires the aviation sector to participate in efforts to limit climate change alongside other modes of transport.
- pollution caused by aviation does harm our environment.
the objective of this directive is to establish a common framework for measures on the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union in order to break the dependence on oil and accelerate the reduction of emissions in the transport system while maintaining minimum requirements for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure taking into account common technical specifications.
the long-term objective will be to reduce emissions from the transport sector.
more than 90% of the energy used in transport was derived from oil, with 84% of oil coming from exports.
increasing competition in the internal energy market is in the interest of citizens and businesses.
the rights arising from the energy package should therefore be reflected in clear and precise offers and contracts, which will significantly strengthen consumer protection.
- the amendments put forward emphasise the importance of public services and the importance of protecting consumer rights, taking into account the already existing telecommunications, energy and postal legislation.
increasing the economic attractiveness of inland waterway transport and improving its environmental performance will bring better health conditions for europeans and environmental improvements.
- europe's heavy dependence on energy supplies from third countries is not beneficial to the eu's long-term development plans.
the investments in renewable energy and the increase in public awareness of this issue over the years are aimed not only at protecting the environment but also at reducing its dependence on it.
greater diversification of energy sources and greater security of supply will have direct implications for economic growth, jobs, competitiveness and innovation.
the development of this sector requires eu support because of its compatibility with its environmental objectives, but also because of the difficulties faced by the development of the alternative fuels market.
the eu wants to diversify energy sources in transport not only for environmental reasons, but also because of the huge costs (around €1 billion a day) of buying imported oil.
they will also provide solutions to major societal challenges, such as reducing carbon emissions or developing next-generation antibiotics, that the market has not been able to address quickly enough.
the eu is trying to anticipate structural change, to build an innovation climate that will help meet the challenges and, where change is needed, to mitigate, as far as possible, its potential impact on the situation of employers and workers.
its main task is to develop new technologies that significantly reduce the negative environmental impact of aircraft and transport, leading to reduced noise and fuel consumption.
it constitutes an important contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the single european sky initiative concerning environmental protection.
by using natural resources, with the support of biotechnology, chemistry, genetics and other sciences such as economics, we can ensure the energy security of the european union's citizens in the future.
all this with zero emissions of toxic exhaust components and very high fuel efficiency.
and given that modern fuel cells are just entering their developmental stages, the only real question today is not whether, but when, they will replace traditional energy production methods.
fuel cell systems are widely recognised as the most promising alternative propulsion concept of the future, mainly because of their environmental character.
fuel cell systems are also being considered as future energy sources competitive with oil and coal.
if we use it in excess, if we use plastic in every product where it's not even needed, we're polluting our environment.
where plastic is needed, these bags will not be replaced by other bags, but it must be admitted that single-use bags in particular are waste, which unfortunately is not recycled as much as other plastics.
we use them all the time, and we don't think about the environmental consequences.
we have a responsibility to care for our environment, and the change in thinking about the impact of plastic bags that this bill is about will have long-term benefits.
the old saying goes, what doesn't kill you makes you stronger, either we come out of this confrontation with the russian federation stronger, more integrated and bring more politics into our daily lives, or we will be divided, as putin would like, who writes 18 letters on energy policy, ignoring the fact that there is one address in brussels where the same letter could be sent.
if you go to the russian foreign ministry's website, you can very easily find a document that has been there for many years and still exists there, that russia guarantees itself the right to use energy resources as a tool in international politics.
the reason for this situation is the very high dependence of the economies of the individual countries of the european union on russian gas, depending on the energy resources imported from russia.
instead of imposing real sanctions on putin for his act of aggression, the eu actually gave him another gift at the last summit in brussels, because by tightening the rules of climate policy, it inevitably makes european economies even more dependent on russian gas.
let's rethink our energy policy!
biodiversity may also be threatened.
in order to ensure that measures against the harmful economic, environmental and social impact of plant pests can have the desired effect, it also appears necessary to carry out campaigns to inform citizens about the risks associated with the import of plants from third countries.
the growing online sales require extensive information and education to protect citizens and to create a safe and responsible e-commerce environment.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's environmental legislation.
- the final version of the new european maritime and fisheries fund was adopted on 28 january 2014. the increased funding for scientific research and monitoring and control of fisheries is seen by environmental organisations as the greatest achievement of the eu's common fisheries policy fund.
- the european maritime safety agency provides the eu and its member states with technical assistance and support in developing and implementing legislation on maritime safety, pollution from ships and protection at sea.
i therefore wholeheartedly support the report by mrs anthea mcintyre today, which calls for a favourable environment for entrepreneurship.
creating an environment conducive to job creation is both a challenge and an urgent necessity.
smes can continue to be a very important driver of development and innovation if they can operate within the right regulatory environment.
- the european union (eu), as one of the most important markets for wild animals and plants and their parts and derivatives, has a particular responsibility to ensure that trade in wild animals and plants and their derivatives is sustainable and does not lead to the risk of extinction of these species.
it also provides for the european character of the initiative to be safeguarded, while promoting sustainable infrastructural investments and access to additional sources of eu funding.
- the current threats to the environment are not just those linked to climate change.
the high level of human consumption results in the production of a huge amount of waste.
their accumulation in the environment threatens, among other things, the introduction of harmful substances into the food chain.
the presence of excess garbage in our environment has a noticeable impact on our quality of life.
i would like to see governments reach their citizens with information and advice, because it is our awareness and our individual choices that determine how much waste ends up in landfills.
i believe that in addition to reducing pollution, these solutions also support local innovation.
as a supporter of an ambitious and fair policy to protect the environment in which we live, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
- although the problem of alien invasive species in the environment is not new, there is still a lack of comprehensive ways to solve it.
the commission has already carried out a study on the impact of the aid on the environment and the environment protection.
mr president, among the major challenges mentioned in appendix 1, i see the cost of energy.
but this cost is generated by the eu, thanks to the war on global warming.
this war, if effective, would harm the natural environment, because what plants need most for growth is carbon dioxide.
global warming, if it is real, is not anthropogenic – that is humbug – but it is the instrument to achieve a specific goal, namely ‘zero growth’.
the second important reason why this was a landmark summit is that the energy union (i.e.
the principle of energy solidarity and energy security) has gained political support and there is a chance that it will be implemented so that the european union can have secure, cheap and competitive energy.
it will break the political and economic dependence on a monopoly supplier and will not, if it happens, cause high energy prices to stifle our economic growth and increase unemployment.
they were saying: yes, we need development; yes, we need to grow; yes, we need to fight unemployment; we have to do something about energy, climate, and so on.
we have a responsibility to shape a trade and investment agreement in a sustainable and equitable way to achieve the expected mutual benefits.
third, to reduce the ukrainian crisis and create an energy union.
europe needs cheaper energy that could drive the reindustrialisation of the continent.
the greatest scope for action lies in the area of freedom to provide services and telecommunications and energy.
if russia does not de-escalate or fulfil the requirements which we put on the table, the council decision on further third-stage sanctions should be put into motion in sectors like defence, banking and energy.
i also strongly support the demand for continuity of energy supply, energy sources for ukraine at a reasonable price.
americans care about the environment, even though we think we care about it better.
but they don't think - at least not those who make the economic decisions - that reducing carbon emissions can affect climate change and therefore their products are cheaper... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this.
in 2013, the average gas price in the united states was three times lower than in the union, and maintaining this situation in the longer term means moving energy-intensive factories from the union to the united states on a massive scale, which in turn means eliminating hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe.
first, the free flow of raw materials, especially energy resources, is a prerequisite for our competitiveness, for our innovation, for the creation of new jobs on both sides of the atlantic.
secondly, if we're talking about reindustrialization, we need to remember that we need a mechanism to compensate for the huge differences in co2 emissions, which is critical for energy-intensive industries.
and finally, fourthly, we are opening up the market to america, we need to organise our own market well, to build a common energy market, a common telecommunications market.
the agreement could also have a positive impact on improving europe's energy security.
gas prices from the united states could be reduced, and access to innovative energy technologies would also be improved.
in europe, there are also concerns about differences in labour costs in favour of americans using cheap latin american labour and more than twice as cheap energy in the us.
we believe that family policy should be a matter of common concern through funding from the european social fund, while action to strengthen families, their sustainability and economic independence should be the responsibility of the nation states.
mr president, we have an oral amendment to the oral amendment by the greens, proposing that on the third line of this amendment we delete the words ‘as well as the decision of the hungarian government to sign an agreement on nuclear energy with russia’.
so, this text as it is proposed by the greens in amendment 5, with a deletion in the third, fourth and fifth lines – deleting ‘as well as the decision of the hungarian government to sign an agreement on nuclear energy with russia’.
the eu must continue to strengthen its relations with ukraine and assist in any way it can with the security of energy sources as this will be a vital part of developing and sustaining an economically sound ukraine, as well as assisting in the desperately needed modernisation of its infrastructure.
i therefore believe that we need to create a business-friendly environment and rebuild their confidence in the markets, which will translate into new jobs for them.
the eu should also focus on supporting entrepreneurship, and in particular on creating a friendly environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ 67% of all workers and generate 85% of new jobs.
policy support will cover areas such as energy and transport.
the climate policy objectives in the light of the upcoming climate summit should raise doubts among individual member states and citizens of the european union.
this position should be reviewed in the light of the need to guarantee the energy security of the european union and to ensure the competitiveness of the union's economies.
i therefore call on the commission and the council and its president to break with the current climate policy which is ruining the economies of many countries in the european union.
to improve it, the emphasis should be on progress in reindustrialising europe and on revising the climate and energy package.
it is based on faulty scientific premises, has a negative impact on the eu's economic situation and stimulates job losses, especially in countries with a high potential for energy and heavy industry.
first, flood infrastructure requires river management, often destroying a unique natural environment.
we must remember that climate change will increase the frequency of floods and other disasters.
we need to stimulate economic growth, because only then will we create a good business climate.
i agree with many of the problems highlighted in the report, such as the issue of youth unemployment or the energy dependence of some european union countries, including my own country, on russia, but i cannot support the call for such far-reaching synchronisation of economic policies, which in the long term will be a threat to the sovereign budgetary policies of the member states.
we are in the midst of key decisions by the european council on the future of climate, energy policy, the future of our economic policy in the european union.
the presidency has presented six climate policy objectives, but at the same time we as meps are asked: is it possible to reduce emissions by 40% while maintaining economic growth?
will the new reduction targets not lead to carbon leakage production diversion and also emissions outside the union and thus possibly also to capacity reductions in individual member states and their economies?
how will we compete under the new free trade agreement with the united states, given that energy prices in the union are higher, that the united states is growing by more than 4% and that energy prices are lower, for example because of shale gas prices?
how can we solve the energy supply problem (gas is one of the elements of reducing emissions, including imported gas) when energy has become a field and a weapon of confrontation, as evidenced by the conflict between russia and ukraine?
we want to achieve reductions, increase renewables, efficiency, and also make a good impression at cop21, but we also want to maintain energy prices and the number of emission allowances, for example, because of the crisis that has occurred.
member states - and this is my last point, mr president - should have the right to choose the path to reaching reduction targets, the amount of res and the implementation of energy efficiency.
the union should also take these principles into account in pursuing its climate objectives.
some countries have spent years building their economic position, accumulating wealth while polluting the environment.
poles expect the european union to help them upgrade their coal-fired power plants, not further de-industrialise and weaken their economy by adopting stricter environmental standards, especially as countries like germany emit more carbon dioxide per capita than poland, build new coal-fired power plants, and increase brown coal mining.
the burden of climate targets must take greater account of the different levels of development and wealth of the member states than has been the case so far.
the damage to european industry caused by the eu's climate policy has been repeatedly highlighted in the public debate.
the real interests of entrepreneurs, including polish entrepreneurs, are sacrificed on the altar of the invented ideology of global warming.
instead of rising energy costs, the polish entrepreneur needs low taxes, limited administration and simple business rules.
for poland, accepting the new proposals of the european commission or even continuing the current eu climate policy means economic disaster.
in three days, the council is due to take key decisions setting out the framework for energy and climate policies until 2030. the previous 2020 framework was adopted 12 years before the target date.
especially since the negotiating strategy for the paris climate summit is questionable, assuming that the whole world expects us to lead in saving the climate.
it is likely that this will not help us again, and we will be in serious trouble, especially with the 40% target for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
we will reduce our energy security by limiting our access to indigenous resources, and we will also put our economies in competition with countries that will not bear similar costs.
believing in the alleged decisive human influence on climate change, the european union wants to be the leader in reducing carbon emissions worldwide.
acceptance of the new proposals will automatically lead to drastic increases in energy prices and, as a consequence, to economic disaster, for example in poland.
i am thinking particularly of the part of the summit that will deal with the climate package.
i am deeply convinced that the climate package as it stands will put an undue burden on the european economy, and particularly on the economies of those countries that have not had a chance to modernise, those countries that rely on traditional energy sources.
i am afraid that this is the real compromise that is needed at the summit because europe cannot take on too much of the burden of the emissions levies.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
we are in danger of stagnation if we do not drive the economy, especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, by innovative enterprises, by reindustrialization, by modern industry, and also by safe and cheap energy.
it should be remembered that cohesion policy funding is a major source of support for member states and regions in their efforts to create jobs, increase competitiveness or promote sustainable growth.
mr president, i support your idea of combining the commissioners' tasks in an interdisciplinary way: energy and climate, industrial policy, entrepreneurship and the market - to name just a few.
economic growth will not be possible without a sound energy and climate policy, which must be adapted to the development of the member states based on their own energy resources.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the energy sector is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
the new slovenian candidate violeta bulc was given a positive assessment as the person responsible for transport, and the slovak maroš šefčovič was appointed vice-president for energy union.
throwing billions away to fight global warming is a criminal act.
the eu budget was mainly spent on regional policy, transport and energy (30.4%) and support for agriculture and markets (30.2%).
russia has been trying to deter moldova from its european choice by applying energy sanctions, trade sanctions and probably forthcoming banking actions to counteract their choice.
we must strengthen this relationship further and this ratification should be completed not only by the trade and visa facilitation, which is now under way, but also by strengthening the energy partnership, by strengthening the independence of moldova in terms of energy security.
we welcome the creation of a national energy efficiency action plan.
– i have voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of moldova, of the other part.
this will provide for the modernisation of the economy, anchoring of eu investment in the country, and better and more predictable policy environment’.
the global debate on the sustainable development goals represents a profound shift in the way the world thinks and acts in international development.
our planet’s natural resources are in decline and the impacts of climate change and biodiversity loss are becoming close to irreversible.
the millennium development goals have been enormously helpful in guiding our development efforts since 2000, but we need a new agenda to meet the new challenges before us today: an agenda that includes all three dimensions of sustainable development – social, economic and environmental – in an integrated and balanced manner; an agenda that addresses inequalities and takes a human rights-based approach.
i believe this report is a helpful contribution to a stronger eu position, and i hope it will also help engage our citizens, mobilise support for sustainable development and demonstrate the benefits of working together in shaping our common future.
nor can we ignore the issues of human rights and the rule of law and social justice, which are directly linked to each other, since only equal access to employment, education and other benefits for all is possible for the sustainable development of a particular region.
it is therefore important to maintain the un's proposed sustainable development goal 16, which calls for the promotion of a peaceful, integrated society, the rule of law and the effective functioning of state institutions.
the rebuilding of industry, and above all the maritime economy, is therefore essential to return to sustainable development and to combat poverty and social exclusion.
its main objective should be to stimulate economic growth, sustainable development and reduce the disparities between the richest and poorest countries and regions of the european union.
you made it very clear that development should be smart, but it's not, sustainable, but it's not, and inclusive, but it's not.
the first factor is the waste contracts, the second is the differences in the quality of life, which also result in increased emigration, e.g.
nurseries, kindergartens, care homes, equal distribution of responsibilities in unpaid domestic work, closing the labour market gap are all necessary conditions for increasing the presence of women in the market and thus for smart and sustainable economic growth in europe.
- in recent years much has been done to achieve the millennium development goals set in 2000. unfortunately, in the face of global challenges such as armed conflict, poverty, climate change, natural disasters, economic crisis and many others, there is still a huge scope for further intensified action.
the number of challenges facing development policy today is best illustrated by the new sustainable development goals, of which there are 17. the implementation of these will require concerted efforts by the european union and other donors, while respecting the principles of aid effectiveness.
discussions on the way forward have been intensified within the open working group on the sustainable development goals and the un intergovernmental panel of experts on sustainable development finance, and the position of the european commission, the eu council and the european parliament on the post-2015 agenda has been set out in a communication entitled 'a decent life for all'.
these include, of course, such important issues as sustainable development, the elimination of social disparities, conflict prevention, adequate education and access to health care.
however, sustainable agriculture and food security should not be forgotten, as these issues should be at the heart of any effort to eradicate poverty and improve the quality of life for all people on our planet.
the europe 2020 strategy is the eu's initiative for sustainable, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the european union's climate strategy is based on a number of very dubious assumptions.
first, it is based on the assumption that there is a consensus in the scientific world about the direction of climate change and the impact of human activities on it.
the consensus is that the climate is changing, just as it always has.
we can set an example for others to take care of the environment and climate, but apparently no one is going to change their policies because of this, and with the union's share of global emissions shrinking, the importance of unilateral action is steadily decreasing.
let me remind you again that by 2030, we will be responsible for 4% of global emissions.
mr president, if one wants to combat climate change, then i propose fighting global warming in spring and global cooling in the autumn.
global warming is a cyclical process, only its cycle is longer.
by the way, the earth needs more carbon dioxide and more warmth for plants to grow and make the earth greener.
is combating global warming nonsense?
that is why we have been ringing the alarm bells for global climate action since 1992. the ringing is getting louder and louder, and we know that in paris 2015 it will probably be the last chance.
secondly: how to make the best use of the green climate fund and other funds and how to strengthen them.
and thirdly: the sharing of new energy technologies.
we cannot, as the european union, be the lone runner; we would endanger our industries, our smes, our energy sector and we would deprive ourselves of an important exit strategy from the crisis.
i can agree with the resolution's statement that climate change requires an urgent response.
i don't agree that it's primarily human activity that's causing global warming, and that if we don't reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we're going to see a 5c rise by the end of the century.
it is not possible, by accepting such an unproven claim, to simulate future climate effects by extrapolation.
what should be the international response to global warming?
second, if it turns out that the causes are anthropogenic, it is necessary to determine whether the causes are greenhouse gases or dust, or deforestation or other factors.
third, more attention should be paid to the country-specific effects of climate change, as excessive focus on reducing co2 emissions is extremely costly and can delay or even prevent the equally costly and urgent need for countries to adapt to climate change.
fourth, we need a broad discussion about climate change, its causes and local and global impacts, and that is not guaranteed by the ipcc and the belief in the infallibility of this unfortunate quasi-scientific body.
- i abstained from voting in favour of another already flawed resolution, a draft political statement for the un conference on climate change (cop 20) in lima, peru, in december this year.
because i missed the most important issue in this project, and i missed the call for a truly scientific discussion about the causes of climate change.
as long as the anthropogenic causes of global warming are hypothetical and science has not provided definitive evidence, there can be no serious discussion about limiting co2 emissions.
however, it should be borne in mind that not only food aid is needed, but also structural support, including support for rural development and sustainable agriculture, public health, water management and education.
and problem two: there is a very clear increase in research and technology deployment by 2020. i think that these measures should absolutely increase both the resources and the preferences for research that would reduce emissions.
the use of excessive controls for protectionist purposes will not only weaken the implementation of the internal road transport market and lead to a loss of its potential, but will also create an antagonistic climate in the international provision of transport services.
instead of giving money, let's change the foundation of our industrial policy and environmental protection.
secondly, the review of the transition from the previous commission to the current programme requires a swift decision so that parliament is not left in doubt about the fate of projects we have already started work on, such as the clean air package or the waste package.
thirdly, i would like to support the priorities set out by the european commission, in particular the energy union.
it must be admitted that the issue of energy security, the elimination of energy islands, the development of transmission infrastructure and the diversification of supply are all extremely important, especially in the context of the crisis in eastern europe.
what do climate-related constraints have to do with it?
first of all, the energy of is obvious, it's been talked about.
we also need cheaper energy, access to the american market, security of supply, access to indigenous energy sources, and new technologies.
it also interferes with the protection of the environment, because the killing of juveniles does not protect the environment.
companies, especially those at risk of relocating to third countries where environmental requirements are not as stringent as in the eu, have been subject to a large number of adverse destructive processes.
instead of subsidies, let's cut taxes, cut corruption, and get rid of the idea of cutting co2 emissions.
unfortunately, the resolution continues to highlight the european parliament's strange mania for linking green energy with economic growth.
green energy and co2 reduction is the key to the european steel industry.
i support the so-called emissions leakage provisions.
but it is not the entrepreneur who is behind it, it is anyone who supports the development of the energy and climate package.
the ever-increasing costs of implementing climate policy, higher socio-environmental standards and high raw material and energy prices have made european producers less competitive with non-eu producers.
in order to address this situation, it is important to step up efforts to prepare an industrial policy action plan, a sustainable european climate, energy and trade policy and a roadmap for initiatives to support the steel sector in the short and long term.
this map should be aimed at improving the business environment and regulatory framework for steel production in europe.
investing in research and innovation, for example under the 'horizon 2020' programme, which could, inter alia, contribute to the development of new, greener, resource and energy-efficient technologies, is also key to improving the competitiveness of the european steel industry.
while welcoming and approving the georgian partnership, as we did the ukrainian one, i believe that in our document we are overly restricting georgia, as in paragraph 45 of the resolution, for example, by calling on it to fully respect the union's environmental standards when building energy infrastructure.
the kind of energy that brings people and politics together.