in addition to a direct threat to the survival of several species, these crimes entail significant dangers to native ecosystems, for example from the uncontrolled spread of exotic species into the environment.
− the european union needs to improve its capacity for innovation in a sustainable and effective way.
- i support this report because i think it is valid and positive to set targets for emissions from light commercial vehicles.
by applying rules on co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles, the eu encourages the use of alternative, innovative and more environmentally friendly technologies.
i believe that this report promotes the development of new mobility technologies for the benefit of the environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, as i believe that this legislation will benefit european citizens and the european car industry.
setting clear co2 emission reduction targets will not only deliver environmental and climate benefits, but will also help to achieve greater fuel savings and maintain the technological leadership of european industry.
− in 2011, the european parliament and the council adopted regulation (eu) no 510/2011 with the aim of reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
technological developments and a possible reduction of co2 emissions should be taken into account before considering a new target.
the report by mr krahmer looks at the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 510/2011 to define ways of achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
the road transport sector is the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases in the european union and its emissions are continuing to increase.
− regulation (eu) no 510/2011, which aims to reduce carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from new light commercial vehicles, states that the european commission should confirm the feasibility of the long-term average fleet target of 147g co2/km from 2020 and set out the modalities for achieving this target.
failure to identify or implement concrete ways of achieving this will have negative effects on vehicle manufacturers, parts suppliers, purchasers and the environment.
− we must continue our efforts to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
− i voted in favour of this report in which parliament sets a target of 147 g/km of average co2 emissions for new light commercial vehicles registered in the eu by 2020. this measure will apply to manufacturers producing more than 1000 vehicles per year.
the regulation also provides for the introduction of a new test procedure for the measurement of co2 emissions which is more realistic and reliable.
− as part of the strategy to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, the european parliament and the council adopted in 2011 regulation no 510/2011, which requires the commission to confirm the feasibility of the 147g co2/km target from 2020 and to lay down the necessary modalities for this.
this document argues that this objective should be maintained, as there has been no change in environmental or economic circumstances, the development cycle of light commercial vehicles should be taken into account and, furthermore, a change in the objective would undermine the overall credibility of the long-term objectives.
the rapporteur therefore proposes that no new target should be introduced before 1 january 2018 at the latest and stresses that before that date, technological developments and a possible reduction in co2 emissions should be taken into account.
− regulation (eu) no 510/2011, which aims to reduce carbon dioxide (co2) emissions from new light commercial vehicles, states that the european commission should confirm the feasibility of the long-term average fleet target of 147g co2/km from 2020 and set out the modalities for achieving this target.
the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence.
this regulation is in full harmony with the fallacy mentioned above and with its general objectives: privatization of the energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking and insurance sectors, liberalization of essential public services.
the internal market means, in practice, the implementation of the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, which have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence.
it does not take into account that these same policies result in the privatization of the energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking and insurance sectors, the liberalization of essential public services, and the endangerment of consumer protection.
i believe that carbon capture and storage technology should not be seen as competitive in the european energy network, although i recognise its importance in terms of co2 reductions from industrial sources such as steel, iron, chemicals, cement and refineries.
i believe that carbon capture and storage technology should remain a decision of the member states.
i support the idea that energy efficiency and renewable energy should remain the main focus of european legislation, for the benefit of the environment and the mitigation of climate change.
i also believe that carbon capture and storage technology should be considered as a transitional solution in reducing greenhouse gas emissions from industrial sources.
- i voted in favour of the report on carbon capture and storage, as i believe that this technology could provide a transitional solution to ensure emission reductions in certain industries.
i believe, however, that european climate policies and their funding programmes should continue to focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency.
− the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) has the potential to enable the eu to meet its 2050 targets for reducing carbon emissions at the lowest cost, and is a necessary tool, especially to reduce co2 emissions from highly polluting industries.
ccs could also contribute to the diversity and security of energy supply, while maintaining and creating employment opportunities.
i also believe that we must find ways of ensuring that technology is used to play a role in combating the threat of global warming.
− the report by colleague chris davies is on the 2013 implementation report: development and application of carbon capture and storage technology in europe.
we should therefore support the development of a range of flagship projects in the field of carbon capture and storage.
i believe that this technology has an important role to play in combating the threat of global warming.
− all paragraphs in this report support the idea that carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a key tool, an appropriate, reliable and useful technique, which needs to be supported by urgent public and private investment in climate policy.
we have serious doubts about the urgency of promoting a method and a technique which still needs to be studied and developed further and which, at its present stage of development, has very significant impacts on the environment, in addition to very high costs.
the report recognises the technique as economically advantageous mainly for the big polluters, industries that emit large amounts of carbon dioxide (co2).
we support investment in research and in the study of methods and techniques useful for reducing the atmospheric concentration of co2, as will be the case with cac.
but it will not be just a method or technique that will solve the problems of increasing atmospheric co2, as this report might lead you to believe.
- the expectations of the european union to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) were very high five years ago.
the deployment of ccs technology is key to achieving a dramatic reduction in global co2 emissions by 2050. however, the results achieved in the development of this technology were not what was expected.
we need to reinvest in this technology, which will contribute in the future to meeting the targets set for reducing co2 emissions.
- the expectations of the european union to become the world leader in the deployment of carbon capture and storage (ccs) were very high five years ago.
in this report, parliament proposes ways of ensuring the application of a technology which has a role to play in combating the threat of global warming.
− carbon capture and storage (ccs) is key to drastically reducing global co2 emissions by 2050. five years ago, the european union was aiming to become the world leader in cwc implementation, but today little is visible.
−we support investment in research and the study of methods and techniques useful for reducing atmospheric co2 concentration, as will be the case with ccs.
but it will not be just a method or technique that will solve the problems of increasing atmospheric co2, as this report might lead you to believe.
− food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the european parliament in general.
− food safety and consumer interests have always been at the heart of the work of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and of the european parliament in general.
for these reasons, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has decided to present an own-initiative report on the issue of fraud in the food sector and, more specifically, on its definition and scope, the factors contributing to its occurrence and possible solutions.
− the eu 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth stresses the need for inclusive growth that, among other things, empowers citizens through employment, investing in professional skills, fighting poverty and modernising labour markets and social protection.
− in recent years, several member states have had to initiate programmes or implement measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of their social security system or equivalent.
one of the main objectives of social protection is to increase the equity and effectiveness of services, while promoting social inclusion and cohesion as key elements of inclusive and sustainable growth and poverty reduction.
this report also indicates the need to continuously optimise and modernise social protection systems at member state level in order to ensure sound, sustainable and adequate social protection for all, including the selfemployed.
− cohesion policies can make an invaluable contribution to areas that promote job creation, increased competitiveness and sustainable development, both in the member states and in the regions, especially in a particularly difficult time of economic crisis.
- i approve this report, as i recognise the need for stronger european legislation on plastic waste in the environment.
i believe that there is a need to strengthen and define the objectives in the management of plastic waste in the eu.
in this context, i believe that priority should be given to the prevention, reduction, reuse, recycling and recovery of plastic waste.
however, i believe that despite the importance of this industry, it is necessary to safeguard the protection of the environment and the harmful effects of the plastic waste industry on our health and environment.
in this regard, it is essential to develop a european programme for the sustainable management of plastic waste, which promotes energy efficiency, reduces greenhouse gas emissions and conserves natural resources.
i am in favour of setting up programmes at european and national level to promote greater environmental awareness in industry, but also in schools and among the general public.
- i voted in favour of the report on plastic waste in the environment, because it includes measures to allow plastic waste to be treated as a valuable resource and to phase out the landfilling of recyclable or recoverable waste.
i believe that proper management of plastic products and packaging will allow for greater resource efficiency, in particular greater energy efficiency, as well as the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
the introduction of the 75% recycled plastic target by 2020, binding recycling criteria and specific labelling can facilitate sorting and give new impetus to the development of more advanced and effective waste stream management systems.
the report by mr prodi deals with a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment.
however, data on their waste remains to be consolidated and without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy.
clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated.
in addition, we must increase public awareness through information campaigns, in particular by creating a european day against plastic waste.
− plastics are becoming more diverse and their use continues to increase, resulting in larger volumes of waste (an estimated 80 million tonnes of plastic waste floating in the atlantic and pacific oceans) that linger in the environment for centuries, killing marine life, causing toxic reactions and releasing various substances harmful to living things into ecosystems.
there is no reliable and comparable data on production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal, and the environmental impact of this waste continues to be underestimated.
the report advocates a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment, including specific measures in eu legislation on this matter, and making existing waste legislation more uniform, coherent and rigorously applied and enforced.
it advocates restructuring the packaging and packaging waste directive, including eco-design rules that allow for the collection and sorting of waste for more effective recycling.
however, there are no reliable data on the quantity of waste and on the tonnes recycled.
without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy, in particular as regards the fight against illegal waste flows.
clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated.
plastic is a valuable waste and cannot be wasted and dumped in landfills, we have to do what is necessary to meet the targets of recycling 75 percent of the plastic produced by 2020. that is why i am voting in favour.
however, the data on its waste is not accurate, ranging from the 25 000 tonnes that the european commission says were produced in 2008 to the 13 000 tonnes that the eea says were produced in 2010. without reliable and comparable data on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is difficult to devise an effective and targeted policy, in particular as regards the fight against illegal waste flows.
clearly, the environmental impact of plastic continues to be underestimated.
the first step that deserves my agreement should be the creation of specific eu legislation on plastic waste, setting targets and pushing for the strict application of existing rules.
− there is no single, consensus statistical data to tell us the amount of waste caused by the plastics industry, so that a realistic and objective strategy can be created, in particular to combat illegal waste flows.
i am in favour of this more balanced environmental policy, which gives the member states room to adapt.
− the report advocates a european strategy for plastic waste in the environment, including specific measures in eu legislation on this matter, and making existing waste legislation more uniform, coherent and rigorously applied and enforced.
it advocates restructuring the packaging and packaging waste directive, including eco-design rules that allow for the collection and sorting of waste for more effective recycling.
these new provisions will enable authorities to make better use of these instruments in support of environmental, energy efficiency and climate change policies.
madam president, commissioner barnier, the combination of the two directives on concession contracts (the juvin report) and on public procurement (the tarabella report) is a balanced instrument for advancing and modernising the single market, removes the previous legal uncertainty associated with in-house service, allows for the efficient use of public resources, preserves the advantages of high-quality services provided by public entities, imposes social, labour and environmental requirements on providers, dematerializes bureaucracy, and ensures that subcontracting is bound to the same obligations as the main contractor, preventing harmful or even fraudulent disclaimers.
the selection criteria are based on the principle of choosing the most economically advantageous offer rather than the one with the lowest cost, which allows social, environmental and quality of service attributes to be introduced into the price-quality ratio.
it is necessary to ensure that the main international social and environmental conventions are integrated into and respected in the concession award procedure.
it is good to remember that they are an important instrument for defending employment with rights, promoting and stimulating economic activity and preserving the environment, that is, everything that is threatened by the subjection to the rules of free competition in the single market which the european commission's proposals always sacralize and hence also proposals always tailored to large companies and not to small and mediumsized enterprises.
a very important point i would like to make in the caspari report, and which is common to the tarabella and juvan reports discussed this afternoon on public procurement legislation, is the mandatory compliance with labour rights and social and environmental standards both at national and union level, i.e.
external economic operators must comply with the applicable environmental, social and labour obligations in the performance of public contracts, which will contribute to establishing fairer conditions in the union's public procurement market.
this being one of the many profound implications of the release of gmos into the wild, it cannot, of course, be resolved except in a wider framework of questioning the gmos themselves and their effects on health and the environment.
we must deepen and complete the internal market, and in particular in three key areas: energy, services and the digital agenda.
the azores, for example, have very specific characteristics that promote research and innovation, renewable energy, biodiversity, agriculture, maritime wealth, etc., which should be the result of a strategy that leads to the production of tradable goods and the creation of value.
i would like to emphasise that this decision formalises the following competences of the committee on fisheries in the framework of the integrated maritime policy as regards fishing activities and sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, regional fisheries organisations and the implementation of international obligations in the field of fisheries.
this cooperation may be developed in the framework of research, technological development and demonstration activities, including environmental and climate research, covering earth observation, research in the field of biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and production technologies, materials and metrology research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social science research, science and technology policy, training and mobility of scientists.
this cooperation may be developed in the framework of research, technological development and demonstration activities, including environmental and climate research, covering earth observation, research in the field of biomedicine and health, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial and production technologies, materials and metrology research, non-nuclear energy, transport, information society technologies, social science research, science and technology policy, training and mobility of scientists.
the commission is also proposing to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by introducing a new directive on the protection of the environment, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment of men and women, and on the principle of equal treatment of workers and employers.
an important feature of the new scheme is the obligation to respect labour rights and environmental obligations in force in the union and the member state concerned, which is especially relevant for competitors from outside the union (but not only).
instead of supporting development policies by pursuing social, economic and environmental objectives in accordance with the political choices of each state, the economically peripheral countries are condemned to structural backwardness and external dependence.
- i support this report, taking the view that the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring sound and effective procedures coupled with award criteria based on innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes and making e-procurement more widespread.
the objective should be to maximise the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
− the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with innovation- and sustainability-based award criteria, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement.
we must make the most of the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
− the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with award criteria based on innovation and sustainability, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement.
− the ongoing reform aims to make existing rules more flexible through ease of application and strategic use of public purchasing power to achieve environmental, social and innovation objectives, as well as to increase the use of new techniques and instruments in procurement.
i am therefore in favour of the possibility of including in the technical specifications requirements relating to performance, such as the environment, organisation, qualifications and experience of the workers involved in the performance of the contract; safety, in particular the methods of evaluating the quality of the products, packaging and instructions for use, life cycle and characteristics linked to the socially sustainable production process.
i also consider it appropriate to introduce the concept of a socially sustainable production process in the award criteria, which is defined as the production process linked to the subject-matter of the contract, whether it is the supply of materials, the execution of works or the provision of services, which ensures compliance with the health and safety standards of workers and compliance with social standards.
− the modernisation of the public procurement directives should strike a balance between simplifying the rules and ensuring robust and effective procedures coupled with innovation- and sustainability-based award criteria, while ensuring greater participation by smes and widespread e-procurement.
we must make the most of the potential of public procurement in the single market to foster sustainable growth, employment and social inclusion.
in fact, the european parliament pays very close attention to the contracting authorities to whom the elements of the future directive on the award of contracts by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors are to be applied.
− the ongoing reform aims to make existing rules more flexible through ease of application and strategic use of public purchasing power to achieve environmental, social and innovation objectives, as well as to increase the use of new techniques and instruments in procurement.
we cannot ignore this growing problem and each member state must actively work to raise citizens' awareness of the fact that wildlife crime is not just a european problem, but that in the long term it will affect our ecosystem, with a political, economic and social impact on communities around the world.
it is enough to mention such issues as services, public procurement, intellectual property rights and foreign direct investment, without forgetting the chapter on sustainable development, with labour and environmental standards, which is now a mandatory part of the union's trade agreements.
it was 2007. before 2007, wealthy portuguese women traveled to spain to terminate their pregnancies in a safe environment.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the recognition of ecological damage by european and international legislation is an indispensable first step towards taking a position that is becoming increasingly necessary in the face of the real and serious risk of ecological disasters.
many have been those resulting from marine pollution caused by oil spills, whether by accident, shipwreck or sinking of ships, among which is that of the prestige.
the environmental devastation is then enormous, with a strong impact on marine and coastal biodiversity, as well as great economic and social damage to coastal communities.
another factor that increases the risk is the increasing number of extreme weather events in the context of climate change.
the protection of coastal regions and their populations requires that the possibility of ecological disasters caused by marine pollution be taken into account, and that effective mechanisms be established to compensate for the damage caused by the serious and long-term impact on the environment and marine resources of traditional activities such as fishing, aquaculture, sea fishing, nautical tourism and bathing, as well as emerging maritime activities in the blue economy.
in this context, in addition to the necessary compliance with the established polluter-pays principle, it is essential to adapt european and international legislation to include a concrete definition of the concept of ecological damage and its liability, with a view to allowing an effective and rapid mitigation of the negative impacts of ecological disasters, as well as the creation of a specific european fund for compensation for ecological damage resulting from marine pollution caused by the massive oil spill in shipping accidents.
regarding the polluter pays principle and the existing legislation, the existing international conventions on liability for oil pollution play a very important role in upholding compensation claims for environmental damage.
when it comes to recognition and reparation of environmental damage, the eu and its member states have traditionally led efforts to raise international standards, and we have been successful in raising these standards in the past.
in the pursuit of constant improvement, the eu is looking into the available information on accidents at sea which have resulted in environmental damage.
the environmental liability directive establishes a comprehensive definition of damage to the environment or ecological damage, including that which occurs in water.
under eu law, there is no distinction to be drawn between ‘environmental’ and ‘ecological’ damage.
during 2014, the commission is due to report to parliament and the council on the outcome of its study on the effectiveness of the environmental liability directive.
- i agree that the european union needs an industrial strategy that places equal emphasis on competitiveness, innovation and sustainability, so that new jobs can be created.
only in this way, with sustainable growth and by addressing the fragility of the sector can industry be developed.
the example of this is the panacea for all ills - the deepening of the single market and liberalization: energy, telecommunications, transport, eco-products, venture capital, etc.
the use of public-private partnerships and the formation of smart specialisation clusters, including transnational and regional clusters, in an increasingly open and liberalised market environment are also advocated.
we must allocate substantial financial resources to make this reindustrialisation, to get back on the path of growth, while promoting competitiveness and sustainability.
in view of the above, i voted in favour of this important report which sets out the strategy for reindustrialising europe with the ultimate aim of promoting competitiveness and sustainability.
this is the basis for the concept of reindustrialisation, which aims to strengthen european competitiveness, create jobs and growth and establish a low-carbon, low-emission and resource-efficient economy.
a strategy that must create an industrial policy that responds to the sector's problems, invests in r & d, creates better financing conditions and establishes fair energy prices.
i am voting for an industry that is driven by sustainable, innovative and efficient values.
the european union's well-known panacea for all ills is an example of this - the hallowed liberalisation of the single market for the most diverse sectors: for goods, energy, telecommunications, transport, green products and venture capital, alongside alignment with the failed europe 2020 strategy and integrated into the european semester process and the national reform programmes.
the use of public-private partnerships and the formation of smart specialisation clusters, including transnational and regional clusters, in an increasingly open and deregulated market environment are also given priority, i.e.
- this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate.
this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate, and their economic dependence on a limited number of products, in particular the cane-sugar-rum value chain, which severely restrict their development.
the main objective of this measure is to compensate producers in guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique and réunion for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by their insularity, small size, topography and difficult climate.
- this measure is intended to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantage they face, caused by the persistence and combination of factors such as remoteness, insularity, small size, difficult topography and climate.
- i approve this report, considering that the cultivation of gmos has not been authorised in the european union since 2010. another reason for my view is that there are no studies to safely assess the long-term risks of gmo cultivation and the consequences for human health and the environment.
for these reasons, i am opposed to the adoption of the proposal for a council decision on the placing on the market for cultivation of genetically modified maize (zea mays l., line 1507), by giving priority to the interests of consumers, the safeguarding of public health and the protection of the environment.
in addition to the risks to biodiversity posed by the proliferation of gm crops, which have a competitive advantage over other non-modified species, the release of these gmos into the environment can have serious consequences for ecosystems, in particular compromising conventional and organic crops, it adds that at present it is not possible to provide scientifically credible assurances of the safety of gm products in food and feed.
in addition to the risks to biodiversity posed by the proliferation of gm crops, which have a competitive advantage over other non-modified species, the release of these gmos into the environment can have serious consequences for ecosystems, in particular compromising conventional and organic crops, it adds that it is not currently possible to ensure in a scientifically credible way the safety of gm products in food and feed.
in portugal, there is a common investment-raising process with most other countries, granting a temporary residence visa for a period of one year, renewable for two further periods of two years each, in return for investment in companies, job creation or purchase of real estate worth more than eur 500 000, all preceded by the necessary european consultation process and verification of the non-conviction of offenses with a sentence of more than one year for applicants.
i strongly condemn the climate of violence and constant intimidation in the northern municipalities of mitrovica and zvečan.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the face of the resolution of a year ago, this resolution abdicates its demands that the icelandic authorities implement economic reforms, abolish capital controls, open up the energy, air transport and fisheries industries, and rejects any measure to protect its economy and workers.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it has a variety of minerals (gold, silver, zinc and chromium), important water resources and a rich biodiversity.
however, politics is not the only obstacle to south sudan's development: good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development.
the five directives in question set out minimum requirements for member states to promote improvement, especially in the working environment, by ensuring a better level of protection of the health and safety of workers.
a stable european policy framework is needed, with ambitious energy efficiency and renewable energy targets for 2030. it is also necessary to remove barriers to investment by allowing the leverage of funds and financial instruments and the adoption of technical standards for interoperability and a regulatory framework of its own.
i would like to welcome this report on the future of small farms and to stress their indispensable role in the rural world, the natural environment in which agriculture develops and without which its sustainability is impossible.
petitions submitted by eu citizens also show that there are frequent and widespread cases of incomplete transposition or misapplication of eu law, with an increase in complaints in this regard, with italy, spain and germany being the most targeted countries in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
i note that the four areas with the highest incidence of late transposition cases are the environment (17 per cent), the internal market (15 per cent), transport (15 per cent) and taxation (12 per cent).
however, it is obvious that the five directives should be revised as soon as possible in order to provide coherent legislation and an adequate level of health and safety protection when dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present in the work environment.
i believe that the five directives should be revised as soon as possible in order to provide coherent legislation and an adequate level of health and safety protection when dangerous chemicals and mixtures are present in the work environment.
the aim is to protect workers, consumers and the environment by labelling and indicating any potentially dangerous effects of chemicals.
the oil, natural gas, electricity and biofuels sectors are covered, as are projects related to carbon dioxide emissions from these sources.
the regulation provides that energy companies are obliged to provide the necessary data to their own member state.
the aim is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its energy tasks.
the commission will present every two years a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the eu energy system, as well as other specific analyses as necessary.
- i vote in favour of this legislative resolution and stress the importance of coordinating investment in energy infrastructure projects in order to achieve the internal energy market which the union is proposing.
- i voted in favour of the report on investment projects in energy infrastructure because it provides that member states keep the commission informed of the development of these projects so that the commission can identify potential imbalances between and investment needs in energy infrastructure in the eu, in particular through the intersectoral analysis of the structural evolution of the eu energy system.
- green growth without undermining competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent energy policy, the proper functioning of the emission allowance market and the promotion of national projects that contribute to the community's objectives of reducing emissions and increasing energy independence.
it is essential that europe should achieve energy independence, which can only be achieved in two ways: (i) greater diversification of sources - which in gas is absolutely necessary; and (ii) an increase in the energy produced in the union.
to do this, we need a legislative framework appropriate to investment projects in energy infrastructure such as the one we are now approving.
- this proposal for a new commission regulation follows the decision of the european court of justice to annul council regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010 on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union and to maintain its effects until a new regulation is adopted on the appropriate legal basis, namely article 194 (2) tfeu.
- a proposal to revise the legal basis of the regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure, following a judgment of the european court of justice which decided to annul the existing regulation by means of a legal action brought by the european parliament against the council.
the initial legal basis proposed by the council was article 337 tfeu on the collection of all necessary information on energy infrastructure investment projects, useful information on the basis of cooperation between member states in energy development.
the amendment of the legal basis for the new regulation places this information within the framework of the establishment or functioning of the internal market and, taking into account the need to preserve and improve the environment, the union's energy policy, the primary objective of which is to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market, a change in the legal basis with which we cannot agree.
the information which could be useful to member states in order to know about planned and under construction projects, projects to convert existing infrastructure and projects to close down others, as provided for in the regulation, will now be useful to those who defend and hold european energy monopolies and determine how the market should develop.
the oil, natural gas, electricity and biofuels sectors are covered, as are projects related to carbon dioxide emissions from these sources.
the regulation provides that energy companies are obliged to provide the necessary data to their own member state.
the aim is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its energy tasks.
in view of the above, i voted in favour of this draft which aims to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure in order to be able to carry out its tasks in the field of energy.
in march 2013, the european commission published a communication on energy infrastructure investment projects in the european union, which aims to establish a common framework for the communication to the commission of data and information on energy infrastructure investment projects.
i am voting in favour of this report which sets out a global perspective of the priority investments of european energy policy, calls for member states to improve communications on ongoing projects and strengthens energy security by identifying possible gaps in terms of infrastructure, investment and associated risks.
- the union comprises an area of justice, with respect for the different legal systems and traditions of the member states, and it is therefore essential to improve the quality, independence and effectiveness of national judicial systems in order to enable citizens, businesses, judges and authorities to trust, respect, recognise and enforce decisions taken by the judicial system of another member state, thus contributing to greater trust, sustainable growth and social stability.
it is undoubtedly a positive step towards the development of a genuine european area of justice that can meet the expectations of citizens and contribute to sustainable growth, based on the rule of law and other values on which the union is founded.
predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment.
predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment.
predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key elements of an attractive business environment.
joint planning and implementation efforts, in a process involving all stakeholders, create synergies and better long-term benefits for regions, not only in terms of secure and affordable energy production and supply, but also in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits.
smart grids, including smart meters and smart storage solutions, can facilitate this development by enabling a new and smarter type of energy system, where energy is produced and used at the production site and not transported over long distances, and where two-way communication between the production and consumption sides is possible.
- i voted in favour of the report on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids, taking into account the potential of these systems to ensure security of energy supply, reduce dependence on fossil fuels and promote job creation.
- the development of smart grids has brought and continues to bring energy benefits at local and regional level.
i am obviously in favour of matters which contribute to the benefit and sustainable development of all the particular regions of my country.
- i would stress the many benefits of smart grids, in particular in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of renewable energy and distributed generation, ensuring security of supply for households, creating conditions for efficient use of electricity in transport, enabling consumers to adapt their consumption in order to benefit from lower prices and at the same time save energy, improving energy efficiency, saving electricity, reducing the high level of investment in electricity grids by using energy outside periods of high consumption and promoting technological innovation and development in the eu.
it should be noted that many regions in europe have developed projects within the current eu framework that have promoted synergies in selected areas on the one hand and energy sustainability and renewable energy on the other, in which public and private partners have combined their efforts to exploit regional growth opportunities in the energy sector, thanks to early use of european structural and investment funds resources, the establishment of specific partnerships at local, regional, national and european levels, as well as effective and decentralised implementation strategies for the exploitation of local energy resources.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the positive aspects of these smart grids are most apparent when they are applied in a context of defending the public interest and of an energy sector under public, democratic control.
attention is drawn to the need to improve data protection and confidentiality (in smart metering systems) by presenting a framework for smart energy systems.
- in times of rising energy prices, accelerating climate change and intensifying socioeconomic challenges, eu regions will have to look for ways to ensure a stable, secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens and respects environmental and sustainability criteria.
there are already good examples throughout the eu of disadvantaged regions that have invested in their own energy production systems, with excellent results.
all this shows that a smart grid can be the cornerstone of a sustainable energy perspective that includes increased renewable energy production, energy savings and better, local use of locally produced energy.
it is therefore necessary to look at smart energy systems as a global concept that brings significant benefits to european regions.
- this report on the local and regional consequences of the development of smart grids concludes that the guarantee of security of energy supply and the reduction of dependence on fossil fuels is a consequence of smart grids and that in addition to these there are other benefits for local communities, in particular in terms of employment and green jobs.
indeed, the renewable energy sector has withstood the current economic crisis and can continue to create jobs in regions where they are most needed, such as coastal and rural areas.
a well-integrated deployment of energy networks within regional energy plans will also enable citizens to take an active role and responsibilities in the energy and network planning of their regions and to reap the financial and social benefits of these decisions.
such empowerment leads citizens to become producer-consumers, producing, using and selling their own energy within a smart grid.
- the concept of smart energy networks allows the creation of a comprehensive system, ranging from production to storage and consumption at the production site.
in addition to a sustainable system that reduces dependence on fossil fuels and combats climate change, and at the same time encourages investment in renewable energy, it creates jobs and wealth in the communities where it operates.
moreover, it allows for the creation of alternatives to the available sources of energy.
despite the huge investments required, these smart grids are an opportunity for the regions within a broader energy plan, which also incorporates the transport, housing and urban planning sectors.
with the excellent conditions that the outermost regions have for the development of renewable energies, i am voting in favour of this report, because i consider it an important element for my region.
without these small farms the aims of the new cap will hardly be achieved, jeopardizing the occupation of land, the protection of the environment, quality production and the financial viability of many households and small businesses.
- i voted in favour of the report on the future of small farms, given their importance and relevance in terms of occupying rural space, preserving biodiversity, maintaining the landscape, transmitting customs and traditions and being a means of subsistence for millions of european families.
whereas these small farms are less efficient but more employing than large farms; the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
indeed, producing steel from scrap, particularly in some high-consumption steel products, is more favourable in many respects: less investment, less environmental impact.
(i) the european community's role in the world economy is to be strengthened by the development of the world economy and the development of the world economy; in addition to this historic role of steel, parliament stresses in this report that the european steel industry is the basis for europe's main value chains, such as the automotive, construction, mechanical and electrical engineering sectors, and renewable energy.
the steel industry remains essential for the whole european industrial sector, in particular for the automotive, construction, mechanical, electrical and renewable energy industries.
this requires a transparent energy market with fair costs, allowing the sector to compete with its international partners.
finally, i would stress the need for a clear commitment to r & d, thus differentiating itself from its competitors, and a comprehensive strategy involving environmental protection, energy and competitiveness.
the european energy and climate strategy must combine the fight against climate change with security of supply and energy and the competitiveness of the economy.
an affordable, available and clean energy system can only be achieved with a strong commitment to science and innovation, so as to reduce the costs of technology.
energy and climate policy allows the european union to lead by example, but it is essential to have a global agreement on this matter that reconciles the preservation of the planet, the competitiveness of the european economy and the sustainability and well-being of current and future generations.
the european union must maintain its global leadership in the fight against climate change, but to do so it must pursue an ambitious policy based on binding targets already by 2030: reducing co2 emissions by 50%, increasing renewable energy by 40% and increasing energy efficiency by 40%.
we regret that some member states are opposed to the setting of binding national targets for renewable energy and are investing more in nuclear and shale gas than in renewables.
the debt crisis cannot be used as a pretext for leaving an environmental debt to future generations.
in the fight against climate change, saving money can mean mortgaging the future.
in this connection, conditions must be created to prevent immigrants from working illegally and in precarious conditions in this periodic work environment.
- i voted in favour of the report on the import of atlantic bluefin tuna, because it provides for a ban on imports from countries suspected of infringing international rules and standards on the protection and sustainable management of this tuna variety.
i believe that up-to-date scientific data on fish stocks and overall fishing effort in gabonese waters is essential to ensure sustainable fishing.
the new partnership should facilitate consultation and political dialogue on common objectives and areas of cooperation, especially on issues such as energy, climate change and the environment and natural resources.
any cooperation in the area of exploration, extraction and exploitation of greenland's natural resources shall respect the highest safety, social and environmental standards.
for these reasons, this partnership should take into account the sustainable exploitation and study of these resources.
i therefore welcome support for campaigns to improve citizens' awareness of the risks of natural disasters and their knowledge of geography and climate.
- i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the eu and national authorities can create visible added value by encouraging responsible individual behaviour and sharing good practice on risk prevention and mitigation between member states and at regional level, and i welcome the support for campaigns to improve citizens' awareness of the risks of natural disasters and their knowledge of geography and climate.
- this report acknowledges that the increase in the number of natural disasters is largely due to the destruction of the environment resulting from the current policies and the economic model (the report does not mention it but we do: capitalism) followed by the eu.
the economic model that has caused the succession of natural disasters and environmental degradation is therefore emphasized, as is the dismantling of state services with the responsibility to protect citizens, particularly the most vulnerable and/or those affected by disasters that in many cases they had no way to avoid.
sabine lautenschläger has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision in an international environment, as well as working in the field of banking and monetary affairs.
sabine lautenschläger has extensive experience in the area of banking supervision in an international environment, as well as working in the field of banking and monetary affairs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it has been suggested that the definition should be determined on an ad hoc basis, but labour and energy costs should be included in this concept.
the european commission must therefore take into account the need to ensure the safety of seafarers when adopting acts, and choose the least complex scenario in terms of procedures and the most cost-effective one, in accordance with the three pillars of sustainable development.
i also believe that the european commission should be concerned about the safety of seafarers, choose the least complex scenario in terms of procedures and the most cost-effective one, and respect the three pillars of sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the nqf introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards which help to improve the functioning of the single market.
measuring instruments may be used, subject to the decision of each member state, for measurement operations carried out for reasons of public interest, public health, public order and safety, environmental protection, consumer protection, the collection of taxes and fees and fairness in commercial transactions.
civil war or the division of ukraine could spell war in europe – another world war ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the decision of the european union to send a force to the central african republic and the authorization of the security council to use that force are welcome but they are a waste of time when for months the urgency of intervening was known and that is why french troops advanced.
mr president, the report we adopted here yesterday on a road map for energy and energy policy and climate change shows clearly the backwardness of the european institutions and parliament over the last five years.
the european union considered itself the world leader in defending environmental issues and we managed yesterday, with great difficulty, to approve a report by a narrow majority which sets out only some of the fundamental and previously unquestionable targets in this house, namely on co2 emissions and on renewable energy.
unfortunately, it seems that with the crisis all this has been called into question and the environment has been relegated to a secondary role.
i voted in favour of this report, although it is much less ambitious than it should be, because i still believe that there can be no development unless we consider environmental and sustainability issues as an integral part of any model.
- i approve of this report, starting by noting that the share of wages in the low-carbon sector has declined less than in the 15 main polluting industries, especially in recent years.
i therefore call for measures to be taken to allocate resources from the economic recovery plan to green, quality employment and sustainable growth.
i also stress the need to provide a platform for member states to coordinate their efforts and incentives in creating high quality green jobs and sustainable growth.
the european energy and climate strategy must combine the protection of the planet and the fight against climate change with security of supply and the competitiveness of the economy.
these policies allow the european union to lead by example in climate and energy, but it is essential to have a global agreement that reconciles planetary preservation, economic growth, poverty eradication and the sustainability of the well-being of present and future generations.
- as we approach 2020, it is important to think about the period ahead for a number of reasons: to get ahead in terms of international strategy, to build on the excellent work already done by the european commission, but above all to be able to have a real impact on the fight against climate change.
- the current climate and energy legal framework, with binding targets for the share of renewable energy, reducing energy consumption and ghg emissions, expires in 2020. we must therefore renew these three binding targets so that the efforts made so far are not wasted.
i think a target of 40% for ghg reduction, 40% for energy efficiency and 30% for renewable energy by 2030 is a good compromise.
the focus on renewables is a plus in terms of reducing dependence on fossil fuel imports, in terms of job creation, and in creating competitive low-carbon sectors.
finally, i believe that deepening the european energy network by encouraging greater interconnections between member states brings undeniable advantages, as well as increasing security of supply, improving intermittency management of renewables, diversifying supply, even leading to a reduction in energy costs.
- this report looks at the eu's climate and energy policy framework up to 2030, a subject which is prone to the usual rhetoric the need for job creation and economic recovery, a transition to a sustainable growth model, etc.
new targets are put forward, with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 40% (based on 1990 emissions) and ensuring a 27% share for renewable energy.
indeed, in the face of the wild climate rhetoric to which the eu has accustomed us, one would expect more.
here the eu has long since made clear the way forward and this report insists on it: the carbon market which has been confirmed to be, besides ineffective, perverse.
here, what matters and what prevails is business as usual... we support ambitious targets for reducing ghg emissions and for the transition to low-carbon technologies, but we do not share the apology for green capitalism which is once again made in this report.
- i did not vote in favour of the amendments to the delvaux/szymański report (on the 2030 climate and energy targets) on the exploitation of shale gas and on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions to 50% compared to the 1990 level.
as regards the first, there is no evidence that, with the appropriate safety guarantees, shale gas exploitation has intolerable negative environmental effects and there is no reason to disregard this energy source which is causing a significant reduction in energy costs in the usa.
as for the second, although i am personally in favour of binding environmental targets, it seems to me that the proposed limit is overly ambitious and perhaps unrealistic (20% in 2020 to 50% in 2030).
the union must maintain its leadership in reducing ghg emissions (co2 and others), but it must not be an isolated vanguard without followers in the rest of the world.
in any case, a reasonable balance must be struck between environmental ambition and the competitiveness of the union's economy, which is already suffering from much higher energy costs than our direct competitors, such as the us.
- i voted in favour of this report on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies in which the european parliament welcomes the commission's green paper on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies and expects the european council to address these issues with ambitious, realistic and cost-efficient solutions.
parliament hopes for flexible solutions that will maintain a sustainable competitive advantage for the european union, with its general and specialised energy know-how, and that will work both in the short and long term.
- i am in favour of a 40% reduction in greenhouse gases, 40% energy efficiency and 40% of energy from renewable sources.
i believe that in portugal the renewable energy potential, particularly wind and solar, is still to be exploited and that this new impetus could boost economic growth and job creation in the area.
however, it will be necessary to review the mechanisms for subsidising renewable energy as the technologies become more mature, to give a clear signal to investors of the strategy outlined and to deepen the european energy networks so that portugal has the possibility of discharging the electricity produced.
i believe that this will also give consumers a fuller picture of the animal welfare standards and environmental impact of meat products.
- i approve this resolution, considering that the gsp consists of one general scheme and two special schemes, including the special scheme for the encouragement of sustainable development and good governance (spg+), under which no duties will be charged on the import of more than 6000 tariff lines from beneficiaries.
my position is also based on the fact that gsp+ is intended to act as a credible incentive for countries that want to make a firm commitment to implementing key international conventions that are essential in the context of sustainable development.
- tariff preferences act as a credible incentive for countries to make a firm commitment to implementing key international conventions, which are essential in the context of sustainable development.
in addition, my approval also takes into account the letter from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the chair of the conference of committee chairs of 30 january 2014.
in writing.
- the european energy and climate strategy must combine the fight against climate change with the security of energy supply and the competitiveness of the economy.
an affordable, available and clean energy system can only be achieved by a strong commitment to science and innovation, so as to reduce the costs of technologies.
energy and climate policy allows the european union to lead by example, but it is essential to have a global agreement on this matter that reconciles the preservation of the planet, the competitiveness of the european economy and the sustainability of the well-being of current and future generations.
- with this recommendation, the majority of the ep agrees to amend the previous regulation on the timing, administration and other aspects of greenhouse gas emission allowance auctions in accordance with the greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme.
in our view, the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances (pollution allowance trading) only serves the large polluters (large industry) with the capacity to buy the allowances and not the necessary reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
we are faced with the consequences of the operation of a perverse and ineffective mechanism - the ets/carbon market.
the replacement of a market approach by a normative and regulatory approach is needed in an emissions reduction framework that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
- having regard to the letter from the committee on the environment, public health and food safety to the president of the conference of committee chairs on 30 january 2014, and having no objections, i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament not to raise objections to the draft regulation on the determination of the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned in the period 2013-2020.
in writing.
the reasons are the recolonization of the planet and of course of the central region of energy reserves which is the middle east, as well as the guarantee of the regional impunity of imperialism, of israel and its policy of state terrorism and occupation of palestine.
in the case of the arab revolutions, which led to regime change in the north african countries, they also brought about a climate of political and social instability in most countries, since the implementation of the rule of law and all its specific features requires certain principles and values which are not established in society.
i stress the importance of energy security and the fact that the supply of natural resources should not be used as a political weapon.
in this connection, i would stress the importance of mutual cooperation in the field of energy, which represents an opportunity to deepen economic and commercial cooperation in an open and transparent market.
the european union and russia have been establishing deep and comprehensive relations, in particular in the energy, economic and trade sectors.
the eu remains committed to deepening and developing relations with russia, taking into account existing cooperation in the economic, energy and trade sectors and good neighbourly relations between them, which are essential for the stability, security and prosperity of europe and its neighbours, and i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
i stress the need to ensure the independence and sustainability of public service broadcasting, and encourage the authorities to adopt safeguards in the press law in this regard.
in the light of the recent events, the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the protocol to the convention on the protection of the mediterranean against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
verbal and physical intimidation of journalists has been on the rise, and it is the responsibility of all those in politics and the media to foster a climate of tolerance and respect.
- given the importance of the inland waterway transport sector and its significant contribution to the transport system of the european union, in particular in the routing of goods from ports to the interior of the eu and its role in solving congestion problems, as well as its energy efficiency, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on the commission to support the management of integrated multimodal transport.
inland waterway transport allows a shift from highways to inland waterways, which is expressed in the white paper on transport as essential for better environmental performance.
we are in favour of ambitious targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars.
it is therefore important that the commission continue to help member states with limited budgets to invest more in education, research and innovation and energy to increase the union's competitiveness and productivity.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment from harmful substances, the protection of the environment from the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemical agents, the protection of the environment from the risks of chemicals and the prevention of the spread of the disease.
- i approve this report, considering that the aim of this proposal is to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from the latest vehicles.
the commission and other institutions are currently developing a new procedure, the worldwide harmonized light duty test procedure (wltp), which will replace the old test cycle and will be introduced by january 2017. in addition, car manufacturers and their suppliers should be encouraged to certify and incorporate into new cars technologies or technology packages (eco-innovations) that can contribute to a reduction in fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
in the light of the recent developments in the field of transport, the commission has decided to propose a new approach to the problem of co2 emissions.
- the report by mr thomas ulmer deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 443/2009 to define the ways of achieving the 2020 target for the reduction of co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
this report sets a target of 95 g co2/km of average emissions for the fleet of new cars registered in the eu in 2020. this objective will apply to manufacturers producing more than 1000 vehicles per year.
this implies reductions of 27% in annual fuel consumption compared to the target of 130 g in 2015. i would remind you that motor vehicles have a significant impact on climate change, as they account for 12% of the eu's overall co2 emissions.
i also stress the added value of a new, more realistic and reliable test procedure to ensure that it represents real driving conditions and to avoid underestimating real co2 emissions and fuel consumption.
the permission to sell 1,3 highly polluting cars, without the emissions of these vehicles being counted in the calculation of the average emissions of the manufacturer.
we agree and advocate the urgent need to reduce dependence on fossil fuels by developing and implementing energy alternatives but in the public domain, alongside increased energy efficiency.
- the present proposal aims to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles, in particular through the application of modern propulsion concepts.
- i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to achieve a significant, but at the same time economically and ecologically sound, reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles, in particular through the application of modern propulsion concepts.
- the following report proposes a reduction in co2 emissions from new vehicles by applying modern propulsion concepts and taking into account the economic and ecological point of view.
in parallel, manufacturers of new passenger cars and their suppliers are encouraged to certify and incorporate eco-innovations in order to contribute to reducing fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
in an increasingly competitive environment, there is a steady growth not only in the essential role of brands for success in the market, but also in their commercial value.
- in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and the need to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, human capital is one of europe's key assets.
the fund will support the most deprived population in general, not just the homeless, the elderly and children, and will support organisations that combat food waste and provide food support to the most deprived.
the fund for european aid to the most deprived may also support activities related to the collection, transport, storage and distribution of donated food, with the aim of increasing and diversifying the supply of food to the most deprived persons and reducing and preventing food waste.
the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
it has harmonised the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
however, their uncontrolled use can also be harmful to health and the environment.
the regulation has positive aspects, highlighting a concern to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as labelling issues with non-misleading consumer information, such as in the case of the possible use of nanomaterials and in technological adjuvants.
- the biocidal products regulation has represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, with the harmonisation of the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the biocidal products regulation represented a significant and important revision of the existing legislation on biocidal products, harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the main priority of the 2014 caa is to enhance sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness, leading to more job creation.
the main priority of the 2014 caa is to enhance sustainable, smart and inclusive growth and competitiveness, leading to more job creation.
growth-friendly fiscal consolidation is needed and efforts must be sustained to ensure compliance with the current economic governance framework on the one hand and to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the medium to long term on the other.
the main priority of the 2014 caa is to strengthen competitiveness and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth that leads to job creation.
sustainable growth needs to be significantly strengthened if it is to be seen as a long-term recovery capable of providing the necessary momentum to mitigate the eu's socioeconomic challenges.
a problem that has been exacerbated by climate change.
another problem is the limited possibilities of increasing the area under cultivation for agricultural production, for reasons of biodiversity preservation, among others.
- i am voting in favour of this one because it stresses that since the development of a new variety requires about 10 years from the research stage to the final seed and an additional period for testing and commercial distribution, substantially more investment in research is still needed to meet future food needs and to resist climate change.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken the initiative in the form of a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
this report is a defence of gmos in europe, suggesting that they are inevitable if we are to respond to the food difficulties and biodiversity loss we are already beginning to face.
referring to fao and who data on food shortages and poverty, loss of biodiversity, degradation of agro-ecosystems and accelerating climate change, this report rejects arguments to respond to these data that the only cause is the lack of variety of agricultural products and little investment in research into new crops and farming methods, never mentioning that these imbalances are rooted in the existing agricultural and trade policies and will not be resolved without a profound change in both.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
- this paper analyses the future challenges of the selective cropping sector, such as the need for food supplies and climate change.
efforts must be made to facilitate the development of new crops with a higher capacity to adapt to environmental conditions, as the opportunities for acquiring new agricultural land are becoming more limited.
rail transport is strategic for economic, social, energy and environmental reasons, which is why it must be publicly owned and managed.
protecting citizens from cross-border health risks, contributing to sustainable and innovative health systems and facilitating access to health systems.
we cannot abandon our young people and we cannot waste our human resources and our talents, nor can we resign ourselves to the fact that the most qualified generation will always be left behind and not be allowed to participate in the economic growth that europe so badly needs.
of course, only a full restoration of economic activity will create sustainable jobs, but in this area action must be taken now to counter this job-destroying trend, where young people are the most affected.
- i approve this report, considering that in its communication on better governance for the single market, the commission identified areas which are essential to improve the functioning and the deepening of the single market: services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market.
the single market will only be complete when the single market is improved and deepened in the energy, transport, digital and public procurement and concession legislation sectors.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it considered that the single market would only be complete if the single market was improved and deepened in the energy, transport, digital and public procurement and concession legislation sectors.
fiscal consolidation policies are insufficient on their own to boost growth and promote investments capable of generating quality and sustainable jobs.
it is important to take into account the considerable needs of many regions with low development rates in terms of investment in infrastructure projects in key sectors such as transport, telecommunications and sustainable energy.
- the development disparities between european regions have increased as a result of the economic and financial crisis that has gripped europe since at least 2008. in the interests of pursuing a triple growth objective (smart, sustainable and inclusive growth) based on research and innovation, the optimal and rational use of european energy resources and potential, and a proactive policy of job creation, the commission intends to take action under cohesion policy, with the support of the european regional bodies.
- in june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, the eu's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in june 2010, the european council adopted the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on a set of actions and mechanisms aimed at smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the european union.
- i approve of this report because it proposes a modernised and up-to-date approach to the reality of the ors, so that investment policies in the ors are applicable to new areas with a view to sustainable development.
whether it is dialogue with the acp countries, the fight against climate change, the safeguarding of biodiversity, the protection of coral reefs, health, the preservation of regional languages or cultural diversity, the european union has nothing to gain from its outermost regions if it is to achieve the objectives it sets itself.
the aim of this report is to propose a change of approach, by overcoming current and sometimes outdated views, so that investment policies in the octs can be opened up to new areas and enable their sustainable development.
in this sense, all european strategies and instruments should close the gap in the integration of the ors into the european area, and the various european investment programmes, such as horizon 2020, energy 2020, posei, life+, erasmus, european energy, transport and telecommunications networks, among others, should include the regions, as the potential of the ors can significantly contribute to the eu achieving the objectives it has set for 2020. for this reason, i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims at synergy between the various eu programmes for the benefit of the regions and their member states.
- the report sets out the starting point for the policy for the outermost regions in the light of the objectives set by the union to implement the europe 2020 strategy for growth, the horizon 2020 strategy, the energy 2020 strategy, the life+ and natura 2000 programmes, the trans-european networks for telecommunications, transport and energy.
not everything is good or bad, but the contents of the eu 2020 strategy, energy 2020 (part of the package of full liberalisation of the energy market in all member states by 2015) are more important than the benefit generated by life+ and natura 2000. parliament called on the commission to step up the integration and development of the octs in the internal market and, with regard to the response to natural disasters, to develop and implement humanitarian response capabilities, calling for the creation of a european civil security force.
however, the report does have some positive aspects, aiming to strengthen the european strategy for the ors, taking into account their structural and permanent constraints, identifying the important employment objectives (these regions have the highest unemployment rates, particularly among young people), social inclusion, the fight against poverty and education, mentioning environmental aspects and the preservation and rehabilitation of biodiversity, among others.
the acp states shall cooperate with the commission and the other states parties to the paris agreement in order to promote the sustainable development of the two regions.
the range of issues considered at the level of political dialogue includes: political dialogue; social and economic cooperation; cultural exchange; cooperation in the field of education and vocational training; consumer protection; health; data protection; scientific and technological cooperation; cooperation in the field of the environment and biodiversity; participation of civil society in cooperation; cooperation in the field of gender equality; cooperation with regard to indigenous peoples and other ethnic groups in central america, etc.
this partnership agreement covers a wide range of issues such as political dialogue, social and economic cooperation, cultural exchange, cooperation in the field of education and vocational training, consumer protection, health, data protection, scientific and technological cooperation, cooperation in the field of the environment and biodiversity, gender equality and the mutual readmission of illegal migrants.
this new strategy requires measures to strengthen europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness.
- the europe 2020 strategy is based on greater coordination of member states' economic policies to strengthen the european union's sustainable growth potential and competitiveness.
the strategy adopted must be maintained and pursued jointly by the european institutions and the member states, so that we can move towards a system of full employment, social inclusion and high levels of sustainability.
on 26 march 2010, the european council endorsed the european commission's proposal to launch a new strategy for jobs and growth, europe 2020, based on greater coordination of economic policies, which will focus on the key areas where action is needed to strengthen europe's sustainable growth potential and competitiveness.
the transport and installation of equipment in these remote and island regions contribute to further increase the additional costs, and the producers concerned also bear additional costs usually borne by local economies, in particular the increase in labour costs and energy costs.
- i approve this report, considering that decision 2004/162/ec sets out the reasons for the adoption of the specific measures, namely remoteness, insularity, small market size and low level of exports, topography, difficult climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and also one-off natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions or earthquakes.
the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, have a significant impact on production costs.
the adoption of these measures is justified by the remoteness of these regions and their dependence on air and sea transport, as well as on raw materials and energy, which have a significant impact on production costs.
in addition, insularity, the small size of the market and the low level of exports, the difficult topography and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products and also occasional natural phenomena such as cyclones, volcanic eruptions or earthquakes constitute a set of disadvantages and specificities that lead to an increase in the cost price of locally produced products, so that, in the absence of specific measures, these products cannot compete with those from other regions.
i would remind you that it also includes a commitment to the principles of democracy, good governance and the rule of law, and provisions for establishing or strengthening cooperation in areas such as human rights, trade and investment, energy, tourism, transport and infrastructure, marine conservation and fisheries, industrial policy and small and mediumsized enterprises, data protection and intellectual property rights.
- the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation through a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science and technology, and good governance, as well as tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
the agreement enhances political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, counter-terrorism, fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance.
the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
- having regard to the draft comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, which strengthens political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position approving it.
the agreement strengthens political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration, the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
- having regard to the draft comprehensive framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of indonesia, of the other part, which strengthens political, sectoral and policy cooperation in a wide range of policy areas, including trade, environment, energy, science, technology, tourism, culture, migration, the fight against terrorism, the fight against corruption and organised crime and good governance, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position approving it.
investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs.
investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs.
investments in these sustainable guided systems can benefit not only the environment and the economy, but also promote growth and jobs.
the objective is always the same: to open the market to new entrants and thereby create an attractive climate.
in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, based on 1990 levels.
in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by 2050. the commission proposal aims to reduce by 20% the time it takes for a new company to enter the market and by the same percentage the deadlines and costs incurred by manufacturers in certifying rolling stock.
in its white paper entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, the european commission proposes that more than half of the eu's medium-distance passenger and freight transport should be carried by rail by 2050. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, taking 1990 as a benchmark.
achieving these objectives will be key to ensuring the sustainability of the internal market and to ensuring job creation.
in its white paper entitled roadmap for a single european transport area towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system, the european commission proposes that more than half of the eu's medium-distance passenger and freight transport should be carried by rail by 2050. in addition to offering more choice to consumers and opportunities for businesses, this target will be key to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and co2 emissions by 60% by the year 2050, taking 1990 as a benchmark.
the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of the environment and the environment.
however, although rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences in terms of human lives, the environment and confidence in rail transport as the safest means of transport.
- i am pleased to have voted in favour of this report because i believe that the railway environment in the union has undergone profound changes, triggered in particular by the three european union railway packages adopted since the early 1990s.
however, although rail accidents are rare, they can have disastrous consequences in terms of human lives, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as the safest means of transport.
furthermore, given that this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of occurrences by aviation workers, it is therefore essential to ensure the creation of an environment of trust, guided by the so-called fair culture, avoiding retaliation or any other penalty for workers who decide to collaborate with information that contributes to safer aviation for all.
given that this whole proactive system is based on the spontaneous reporting of occurrences by aviation workers, it is essential to ensure that an environment of trust is created, guided by the so-called 'fair culture', as is intended here.
it is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation in healthcare and ensure its sustainability, improving the well-being of european citizens.
the overall objectives of the health for growth programme are to work with member states to encourage innovation in healthcare and to increase the sustainability of health systems, to improve the health of eu citizens and to protect them from cross-border health threats.
- this report concerns the proposal for a regulation establishing the health for growth programme, the third multiannual programme of the european union for health action for the period 2014-2020. as part of the europe 2020 strategy, the health for growth programme aims to focus on the key areas where eu action can deliver real added value in health, encourage innovation and ensure the sustainability of healthcare and thereby improve the well-being of european citizens.
however, there is a need to strengthen cooperation between public and private sector actors, avoiding duplication of effort and using financial resources in a sustainable way.
- this initiative is based on the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth1, which gives a prominent position to digital infrastructure in the context of the digital agenda for europe flagship initiative.
while sound fiscal policies are the underlying foundation, it is essential that europe embarks on a path of sustainable growth, which increases its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensures job creation.
financing the real economy plays a crucial role in this process, despite the fact that the current crisis context presents a significant obstacle to sustainable growth in europe.
the climate we live in is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, but change is urgently needed if the economy is to develop to its full potential.
this will require a coordinated strategy, involving the european institutions and the member states, aimed at the long-term recovery of investment, which is vital for the future and sustainability of the european economy.
the climate we live in is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, but change is urgently needed if the economy is to develop to its full potential.
while sound fiscal policies are the underlying foundation, it is essential that europe embarks on a path of sustainable growth, which increases its competitiveness vis-à-vis other regions of the world and ensures job creation.
the current climate is dominated by uncertainty and risk aversion, and a shift towards unlocking the full potential of the economy is urgent.
however, while there is unprecedented global demand for minerals and other natural resources, which represents a unique opportunity to enable mining to contribute to sustainable development, it poses a major challenge for developing countries.
the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflict, and in many cases of human rights violations around the world, especially in a context where increasing competition for scarce renewable resources, such as land and water, is increasing.
the exploitation of high-value natural resources, including oil, gas, minerals and timber, is a major source of conflict worldwide, especially in a context where increasing competition for scarce renewable resources, such as land and water, is increasing.
in general, to ensure that mining becomes a success factor in the development process of developing countries, an integrated strategy is needed that addresses, inter alia, the following challenges: how to address the roots of conflict minerals; how to better manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining; how to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining.
only through responsible business practices can we ensure economic growth and sustainable job creation.
- the growing global demand for minerals and other natural resources such as oil, natural gas and wood, while providing an opportunity for sustainable development, also presents a challenge for developing countries in that high global competitiveness for these resources and raw materials and the scarcity of some renewable resources such as water and land also make them a source of conflict worldwide.
this problematic context is aggravated by environmental degradation, population growth and climate change.
this requires an integrated strategy that is ready to respond to the various challenges that arise: how to address the roots of conflict minerals, how to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and how best to support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining.
the rapporteur stresses the role of transnational companies in developing countries and the importance of these countries implementing reforms to ensure sustainable mining.
the war in syria is obviously fuelling sectarian and inter-religious tensions in iraq, exacerbating the social fracture in a population already so fragile by insecurity and weak governance, at the root of poverty, unemployment, economic instability, corruption, precarious basic services and environmental degradation, where there are vast areas still contaminated by traces of depleted uranium and saddam hussein's chemical attacks, severely affecting the health of the iraqi people.
as has been acknowledged and proven on other occasions, such measures taken by third countries, to the detriment of the establishment of multilateral agreements involving the european union, pose a serious threat to the balance of resources, the sustainability and competitiveness of the european fisheries sector, causing trade distortions resulting from unfair competition between various operators.
this scenario requires the commission to be consistent with its internal operating standards, requiring immediate action by appropriate means to defend equitable access to resources and the sustainability of fishing.
unfortunately, climate change is leaving us no choice but to take preventive action in the field of energy and climate policies, but also the need to make the mechanisms for helping our people more flexible.
the increase and severity of disasters worldwide is partly due to the effects of climate change.
the new civil protection mechanism legislation recognises the link between the increase and severity of disasters and climate change.
climate change is a real threat to people and the planet.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- i approve this report, considering that the conclusion of the agreement with indonesia is an important step for the european union in its efforts to improve sustainable forest management worldwide, to put an end to deforestation and forest degradation and to stimulate systematic changes in the forestry sector by rewarding the efforts of diligent operators who source timber from legal and reliable sources and protecting them from unfair competition.
this heritage is, however, threatened by the uncontrolled massive destruction of tropical forests and carbon-rich peatlands for palm oil and paper production, making indonesia the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases, which have an impact on climate change.
i am very interested in the spillover effects that a sustainable indonesian forest governance system could have on timber exports to these markets as well.
it is therefore necessary to ensure that products and raw materials from developing countries comply with the relevant rules and respect the environment and the rights of the people.
i believe that the conclusion of this gpa is another step in the eu's efforts towards sustainable forest management on a global scale, helping to reduce deforestation, stimulating change of practices in the forestry sector and rewarding and protecting operators who purchase timber from legal and reliable sources from unfair competition, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
it is an important step towards improving sustainable forest management worldwide and ending deforestation.
in this complex context, a large part of the population continues to suffer from serious social and economic problems, including widespread poverty, high unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental degradation and lack of basic public services.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
i hope that the same can be done, thus contributing to the preservation of the richness and biodiversity of indonesian forests.
the vpa, signed on 30 september 2013, confirms the mutual commitment to ensure that timber imported into the eu is produced, harvested and shipped legally, aiming to end deforestation and forest degradation, eradicate illegal logging and promote sustainable forest management.
it is urgent to ensure equality between women and men, to ensure that the working conditions in the sector are attractive for future generations and to recognise its contribution to the sustainable development of fisheries.
women's work in the fishing and related activities sector is increasingly carried out invisibly, as a complement to their partners' work, in an increasingly harsh economic environment for family farms.
it is therefore necessary to regularise their working conditions and ensure equality between women and men, to ensure that working conditions in the sector are attractive for future generations and to recognise their contribution to the sustainable development of fisheries.
the work carried out by women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector is not properly recognised and remains largely invisible, although it creates significant added value and contributes to the cultural identity and economic and social sustainability of coastal communities, particularly in areas heavily dependent on fishing.
the report addresses a number of highly relevant aspects in this area, such as transparency in the distribution of revenues, technical protection measures, licensing and innovative business models in the digital environment.
if these pieces of legislation we are discussing here can recover at least some of that money, that money which is needed for schools, for parks, for libraries, for hospitals, for the sustainability of our social security systems, then we will be doing one of the most relevant services we could do to the european citizen and, although these things are not measured by money alone, we will be making a lot of profit.
i would therefore call for investment in fleet renewal or retrofitting, which would bring additional environmental benefits.
it is essential to promote the use of innovative vessels powered by alternative energy sources, replacing older vessels that are outdated in terms of technology, safety and the environment.
finally, i agree with the rapporteur that innovative vessels powered by alternative energy sources are used, stressing that most of the vessels used on inland waterways are old and in need of urgent renewal and that there would certainly be additional environmental benefits.
in addition, the nagoya protocol creates incentives for the in situ conservation of genetic resources and their sustainable use, thereby enhancing the contribution of biodiversity to human well-being and development.
sustainable access to genetic resources is essential and therefore needs to be enhanced by greater trust in our international partners and a clear legislative framework.
this important agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of long negotiations since the adoption of the cbd in 1992 in rio de janeiro, and comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which continues to intensify with increasing species loss.
to reverse this trend, it is necessary to mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, at local and international level to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies.
this protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
i believe that we must mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies.
this protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
i believe that we must mobilise the necessary resources, especially financial resources, to preserve the biodiversity that is vital to our societies.
signed today by the european union and its 26 member states, it establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
this protocol is based on three pillars: access to genetic resources, subject to the sovereignty of states, which establish national measures to ensure legal certainty through clear legislative frameworks and the issuance of documents such as licenses for granting access; sharing of benefits arising from the fair and equitable use of genetic resources, subject to conditions agreed by mutual agreement between supplier and user, which should contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide; and compliance with specific obligations to ensure compliance with the national legislation of the contracting parties and contractual obligations under mutually agreed terms.
- the nagoya protocol establishes an international scheme to support one of the three objectives of the cbd (convention on biological diversity), namely, the sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
- at the international summit on biological diversity held on 29 october 2010 in nagoya, japan, countries that are parties to the convention on biological diversity (cbd) adopted three landmark agreements to combat biodiversity loss: the nagoya protocol, the global strategic plan for biodiversity for 2011-2020 and the creation of the intergovernmental platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services (ipbes).
i am in favour of this protocol establishing an international support scheme for the sharing of the benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources in order to preserve biodiversity and its sustainable use.
i would also like to emphasize that the agreement on the international governance of biodiversity is the result of long negotiations since 1992 in rio de janeiro and comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which is intensifying with the loss of species.
an international scheme is established to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
this protocol is based on three pillars: access to genetic resources (where states establish national measures to ensure legal certainty) through clear legislative frameworks and the issuing of documents such as licenses for granting access; sharing of benefits resulting from the fair and equitable use of genetic resources (which should contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide) subject to conditions adjusted by mutual agreement between supplier and user; and compliance with specific obligations, aimed at ensuring compliance with the national legislation of the contracting parties and contractual obligations under mutually agreed terms.
- i approve this report, taking into account that during previous discussions the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety expressed concerns about plant reproductive material used for ornamental purposes as well as plant propagating material intended for sale to private horticulturists, the lack of quality of the commission's impact assessment, the wide powers of the community plant variety office, the vague definitions and the unnecessary administrative burdens imposed on member states and operators.
finally, i would stress that european union legislation on plant reproductive material should facilitate and encourage the preservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
- this report responds to the just demands of dozens of small producers and environmental groups who are calling for the rejection of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material.
- this report focuses on the rejection by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the proposal for a regulation of the committee on agriculture and rural development on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material, which is currently regulated by 12 directives which allow the regulation to be adapted to each specific case.
i would also stress that eu legislation on this material should facilitate and encourage the preservation of biodiversity in agriculture and horticulture.
- in response to the just demands of dozens of small producers and environmental associations, this report rejects the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the production and placing on the market of plant reproductive material.
- i approve this report, as the commission's aim, through this legislative proposal for a decision, is to ensure the continuation of the european union guarantee for the external financing operations of the european investment bank for the next financial perspective 2014-2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the mandate of the eib to the countries most in need of loans, to strengthen the climate change component of the mandate, and to make the bank's external lending policy more consistent with the union's policies and objectives in the field of external action.
by using these financing operations, the eib contributes to the pursuit of the general principles of the union and, above all, democracy, the universality and indivisibility of human rights, as well as the union's policy objectives, including the promotion of sustainable economic, social and environmental development in developing countries, poverty eradication and the prosperity of the union in changing global economic circumstances.
by carrying out these financing operations, the eib indirectly contributes to the pursuit of the union's general principles and policy objectives, which include poverty reduction through inclusive growth and a sustainable economy, environmental and social development and prosperity in difficult circumstances.
i am voting in favour of the ceiling of eib financing operations with eu guarantee over the period 2014-2020 of eur 30 billion, this amount being invested in the development of the local private sector, in particular in support of smes, development of social and economic infrastructure, in particular in the field of transport, energy, environmental infrastructure and information and communication technologies and in climate change mitigation.
this decision establishes a budget guarantee granted for these operations outside the union with the aim of supporting the development of the local private sector, the development of social, environmental and economic infrastructure, and climate change mitigation and adaptation, while promoting compliance with the general principles guiding the union's external action policy.
- i approve this report, considering that the loss of biodiversity is accelerating.
in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, but for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and all its citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries.
in order to participate in the preservation of biodiversity, peoples and associated knowledge, it is necessary that the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge are shared in a fair and equitable manner.
this sharing should be aimed at contributing to the preservation of biological and cultural diversity in situ and ensuring sustainable use by local populations.
- genetic resources (gr) are fundamental to sustainable agriculture and food security for all, but are of particular importance for developing countries.
the loss of genetic diversity resulting from the process of erosion of biodiversity therefore poses a challenge to humanity.
(teeb report, 2010) biodiversity is an inexhaustible source of innovation and discovery in scientific research, technological applications or health, food, cosmetic and other products.
i believe that the preservation of biodiversity contributes to the socioeconomic vitality of europe and of all citizens, who are the direct beneficiaries of its use.
the amendments proposed in this report aim to give european citizens a guarantee of traceability and ethics, respect for international legal obligations and fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of biodiversity.
- while the report contains aspects which we consider to be positive, in particular all the assumptions and the three pillars of the protocol, namely the duty to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide, it is certain that the negotiations with the council have weakened and removed a large part of the points of defence of biodiversity and protection of the patenting of biological processes.
the proposal for a regulation, which is intended to amend the nagoya protocol, is intended to cover up the desire to patent biological resources and the appropriation of natural resources and biodiversity by large multinationals.
- the loss of biodiversity is accelerating.
in this way, the preservation of biodiversity is not only essential for the future of all humanity, both in the north and in the south of the planet, but also for the socioeconomic vitality of europe and of all citizens, who directly benefit from its use.
for these reasons i voted in favour of this report on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use, which stresses the need for the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, thereby contributing to the preservation of in situ biological and cultural diversity and ensuring its sustainable use by local populations.
- the main international instrument providing a general framework for the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from their use is the convention on biological diversity, adopted on behalf of the union pursuant to council decision 93/626/eec.
- the report contains aspects which we consider positive and argues that traditional knowledge should enjoy the same level of protection as genetic resources when implementing the nagoya protocol, as well as all the assumptions and the three pillars of the protocol, namely the duty to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity worldwide.
- these new rules proposed by the european commission are intended to increase road safety and levels of environmental protection.
- the purpose of this proposal, which is part of the motor vehicle technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to increasing road safety and environmental protection.
- the purpose of this proposal, which is part of the motor vehicle technical inspection package, is to support and enforce the technical inspection of motor vehicles with a view to improving road safety and protecting the environment.
to be marketed, vehicles must meet the applicable requirements for type approval (either of the model or individual) - ensuring an optimal level of safety and environmental performance standards.
the commission has presented new rules for vehicle roadworthiness testing which aim to improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection.
- the main objective of the european union's transport policy is to create an internal market by promoting common policies that encourage a high level of competitiveness and the harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities.
the collection of data on agricultural holdings is therefore essential to ensure that rural development funds are distributed equitably and that sustainable production methods and forms are improved, thereby gaining competitive advantages in the global market.
- i approve this report, starting by welcoming the role of the european investment bank in shaping the agreement on the pact for growth and employment, as well as the increase in its lending operations in the field of infrastructure, energy efficiency and the knowledge economy.
in this respect, it is hoped that the full potential of the recent capital increase of eur 10 billion will allow for a better and more extensive application of lending for growth and employment in sustainable sectors, especially to small and medium-sized enterprises.
i hope that it will create incentives for more projects to promote sustainable development in all member states, thereby enabling it to increase its lending activities - particularly in countries under programmes - as a provider of countercyclical capital with a catalytic impact on the real economy.
- the european investment bank (eib) has recently undergone a capital increase of eur 10 billion, enabling it to increase its investment capacity by 49% for the period 2013-15. the eib, set up in 1958, has the 28 member states of the european union as shareholders and its mission is to provide loans at reduced interest rates to finance projects related to infrastructure improvements, energy supply, etc., both in the eu and in neighbouring countries.
the eib also contributes to the development of the european union's energy policy, in particular through the european investment bank (eib) and the european investment bank (eib).
the report calls for the eib to continue to prioritise the areas of economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability and to improve access to finance for smes.
in the light of the above, the commission considers that the eib should be able to provide loans to the member states in order to finance projects in the field of energy and transport.
i also think it is essential that the eib provides loan guarantees for actions in areas such as knowledge and skills, resource efficiency and energy efficiency, strategic infrastructure and access to finance for smes.
the report calls for the eib to continue to prioritise economic and social cohesion, growth and employment and environmental sustainability.
these are young women who live in deep uncertainty, trapped between the difficulties of accessing the labour market (with youth unemployment at 23.1%) and the job instability to which they are subject, a reality that calls into question their economic autonomy and without which equal participation in the economic market, in the political and social environment is not possible.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment, and for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
- in this report, the european parliament calls on the european commission to submit a proposal for the revision of the european system of financial supervision (esfs) by 1 july 2014. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
producers grow a wide variety of products with a low environmental impact, most of which must be harvested, processed and distributed in time to meet the standards required of processors, retailers and consumers.
it should be taken into account that the european horticultural sector faces numerous challenges, such as adapting to the effects of climate change and providing food for a growing world population.
the specificities of this sector should be addressed by the commission with particular attention to better exploiting europe's horticultural capacities, which are essential for food security but also for numerous objectives in terms of reducing emissions, preserving the environment and combating the desertification of rural areas.
it advocates the dilution of european environmental and health legislation, for example on pesticides and their use, using arguments such as lack of competitiveness and the need to lower minimum legal standards for pesticides.
i also think it is important to consider environmental sustainability and the impact of the sector on climate change.
using arguments such as lack of competitiveness, it argues for the weakening of european legislation on the environment and health.
at the same time, both face common challenges, such as the impacts of migration, energy security and international terrorism.
the fragmentation of national air navigation service providers means dismantling these companies, which today operate by ensuring high quality standards in their performance, means calling into question not only this quality but the entire safety chain, calling into question thousands of jobs, particularly in peripheral countries, calling into question the sovereignty of each state over its airspace in an area where the treaties do not give the union competence: employment, safety, environmental sustainability, route efficiency.
i voted in favour of this document because i believe that the building of a sustainable democracy and a pluralistic society still requires important and necessary reforms.
the aquaculture sub-sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use.
the aquaculture sub-sector also faces competition from imports, low prices for certain species, strict environmental regulations and conflicts over land use.
in this particular case, i support the proposal of the rapporteur and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
the consequences of the large-scale introduction of nanomaterials, the environmental consequences of bioaccumulation, transport and processing and the destination of these materials still need to be studied, and there are even several opinions reporting potential concerns regarding the safety of nanomaterials in food.
the consequences of the large-scale introduction of nanomaterials, the environmental consequences of bioaccumulation, transport and processing and the destination of these materials, require further knowledge and study.
- i approve this report on the grounds that the european union has called for a reduction of 80%-95% of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
according to the european commission's roadmap to a low carbon economy, achieving this target requires 72%-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (which includes fluorinated greenhouse gases) by 2030. but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, emissions of f-gases in the eu have increased by 60% since 1990. hfc-based products and equipment can have a lifespan of up to 50 years.
additional legislation is therefore now needed to prevent emissions from rising for several decades to come.
fortunately, there are now sustainable alternatives on the market and in use that have proven to be safe and cost-effective and energy efficient.
these sustainable alternatives can replace almost all hfc-based equipment now and in the near future.
the phasing out of hfcs will enhance sustainable growth, encourage innovation and compensate european industries for investing in green technologies.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected and that it is sustainable.
it is our duty to leave an environment equal to or better than the one we live in.
so all these measures are indispensable, not only for the preservation of the environment but also for our health.
the european union is known as the regional organisation that protects the environment the most, and this is another step towards ensuring that this recognition continues to be a feature of the european union.
- commonly used in a number of industrial sectors as refrigerants, solvents, insulation gases, foaming agents and aerosol propellants, fluorinated gases are hundreds of times more dangerous than co2 for global warming.
with demand for refrigeration and air conditioning increasing, especially in developing countries, these gases will account for about 8% of greenhouse gases by 2050. it is therefore important to limit their use, particularly of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs).
although it should and could be more ambitious, this text is already an improvement on the previous regulation, in particular when it provides for the prohibition of the use of fluorinated gases, with a higher climate impact, in fixed refrigeration systems from 2022 and fixed air conditioning systems from 2025.
- the reduction of this type of gas is very important if the objectives set for 2050 are to be achieved, as it has a warming potential 23 000 times greater than that of carbon dioxide.
- the montreal protocol, considered the most successful of the international environmental agreements, has achieved the global elimination and phasing-out of the substances that deplete the ozone layer the most, including chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs) and hydrochlorinated fluorocarbons (hcfcs).
in addition, fluorinated greenhouse gases (f-gases), including perfluorocarbons (pfcs) and sulphur hexafluoride (sf6), have global warming potentials (gwp) up to 23 000 times greater than carbon dioxide and can remain in the atmosphere for thousands of years.
in view of the need for action in this area, i voted in favour of this proposal which sets the targets to be achieved by 2030, namely 72%-73% reductions in non-co2 emissions (which includes fluorinated greenhouse gases).
- the commission has adopted a roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 and has set out the necessary sectoral contributions in six strategic areas.
i am in favour of this regulation which aims to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
to that end, this regulation lays down rules on the containment, use, recovery and destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases and related ancillary measures, and imposes conditions on specific uses of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
- fluorinated gases are hundreds of times more dangerous than co2 in terms of global warming.
with the increasing demand in developing countries for refrigerators and air conditioners, these gases will account for about 8% of greenhouse gases by 2050. limiting their use is therefore important, particularly of hydrofluorocarbons (hfcs).
the text is already an improvement on the previous regulation, in particular when it provides for the prohibition of the use of fluorinated gases, with a higher climate impact, in fixed refrigeration systems from 2022 and fixed air conditioning systems from 2025.
in writing.
in the present economic climate, the simplification and flexibility of all the rules allowing greater mobility of professionals is an essential requirement for a sustainable economic recovery.
- i approve of this report, noting that, over its 28 years of application, this directive has had some success in harmonising the principles of environmental assessment at european level, but has been subject to only three minor amendments, while the political, legal and technical context has evolved considerably.
in line with the union's priorities, the proposal introduces biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change and the risks of natural and man-made disasters among the factors on the basis of which the impact of a project should be assessed.
- green growth without compromising competitiveness requires a sustainable and consistent environmental policy, which requires a uniform assessment of both public and private projects in the environment.
- the european parliament and council directive amending council directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment covers some 200 types of projects, from the construction of bridges, ports, motorways and landfills to intensive poultry or pig farming.
it establishes the principle of informed decision: before approving the implementation of a public project likely to have an impact on the environment, the competent authorities of the member states are legally obliged to obtain the information necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment.
at the same time, it is essential to ensure that the environmental report is verified by fully independent experts with appropriate technical expertise in environmental matters.
achieving a true green economy also means ensuring the sustainability of projects to be carried out in our territory, taking into account resource efficiency, climate change and biodiversity loss, in particular in the case of major infrastructure projects.
- this report refers to the proposed environmental impact assessment (eia) directive, which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in the decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment.
- directive 2011/92/eu1 contains a legal provision requiring an environmental impact assessment (eia) for public or private projects likely to have significant effects on the environment, before their authorisation.
the main objective of the directive has been achieved by consensus: the principles of environmental assessment have been harmonised across the eu by introducing minimum requirements regarding the type of projects to be assessed, the main obligations of the developer, the content of the assessment and the involvement of the competent authorities and the public.
we must continue to improve this process, which is essential for sustainable growth.
- despite its modest appearance, directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment (eia directive) is, on the contrary, the jewel in the crown of the union's environment policy.
the commission proposal considers that a model of truly sustainable development should be adopted throughout the union.
the amendments proposed by parliament are intended to reinforce the ec proposal by completing it, with the aim of making it even more incisive and effective, simplifying transposition into national legislation and facilitating the achievement of environmental protection objectives.
- the commission communication of 30 april 2007 entitled 'the mid-term evaluation of the sixth community environment action programme' highlighted the need to improve the principles for assessing the environmental impact of projects and to adapt the european directive to the considerably evolved political, legal and technical context.
i am voting in favour of this report which calls for an environmental impact assessment to be carried out whenever it is necessary to safeguard the environment.
i also stress the urgent need to coordinate and facilitate the assessment processes for crossborder projects and, in particular, with a view to consultations under the convention on environmental impact assessment in a crossborder context, including the possibility for the member states concerned to set up a joint body on the basis of equal representation.
- this report refers to the proposal for a directive on environmental impact assessment (eia), which is essential to safeguard the public interest and the conservation of nature in the decision-making on public and private projects, taking into account their effect on the environment.
although other aspects were covered in the directive for which we were fighting, such as the inclusion/consideration of cumulative effects with other future or existing projects, as a criterion for weighting environmental impact, we felt that there was much to be improved and that it was left behind.
the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension.
in a world facing an increasing risk of natural and other disasters, the copernicus programme is very important because it aims to monitor the environmental condition on earth, in the seas and in the atmosphere, as well as to improve the safety of citizens.
the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension.
in addition, this type of mechanism benefits the climate studies of our continent and enables a more comprehensive investigation of our environment.
the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension.
the main objective is to benefit european citizens in a variety of areas, including environmental and climate change purposes, while maintaining its application in the civil dimension.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology.
copernicus will provide services for land monitoring, marine monitoring, atmospheric monitoring, emergency and security services.
the programme will be managed centrally by the european commission, with the support of the european space agency and the european environment agency.
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the union should also focus on energy security and cooperate with the eastern partners in this area.
the eu should also focus on energy security and collaborate with its eastern partners in this area.
this is an ambitious document which takes into account important issues underlying relations with these countries, such as the visa-free regime and energy policy.
since these are a clear violation of fundamental rights and create an environment of suspicion between the parties, i am in favour of eliminating large-scale surveillance altogether.
predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are key structural factors in an attractive business environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
- i approve this report, starting by highlighting the economic opportunities and the variety of industrial sectors in the arctic and sub-arctic regions, such as tourism, maritime industry and transport, renewable energy, environmental technology and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber industry, mining, transport and communications services, information technology and online solutions, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods such as reindeer herding.
given the contribution of the eu and its member states to research and funding, its impact through eu legislation on the environment, climate, fisheries and similar issues, as well as the possibilities for future cooperation on issues such as the development of mapping and maritime security, economic development and similar issues, it can be concluded that the eu has much to contribute to the sustainable development of the arctic.
this region will be crucial to a world that is adapting to face climate change, population growth and resource scarcity.
- i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the eu arctic strategy, in which i stress the call for a joint eu policy on the arctic, as well as a coherent strategy and a concrete action plan for the eu's engagement in the arctic, with a focus on socioeconomic and environmental aspects.
the economic opportunities and the variety of industrial sectors in the arctic and sub-arctic regions, such as tourism, maritime industry and transport, renewable energy, environmental technology and clean technologies, gas and oil, offshore industry, forestry and timber, mining, transport and communications services, information technology and online solutions, fisheries and aquaculture, as well as agriculture and traditional livelihoods, among others, should be highlighted as sectors that may be of greater relevance at european level.
the focus should be on socioeconomic and environmental aspects to ensure the legitimacy and local support of the eu's arctic engagement.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
and a credible policy in this area has to include a component of the fight against irregular immigration, as well as the existence of an effective and sustainable return policy.
the export of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries has been prohibited since 1998 and, due to the various hazardous materials on board, any ship destined for scrapping is considered hazardous waste.
unfortunately, it's hard to tell when ships become waste.
at the end of their useful life, most large seagoing merchant ships continue to be dismantled in low-quality yards located in asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), usually by the ship-sanding method, resulting in a considerable environmental and health impact.
asylum and migration are also linked to internal security, as the lack of economic conditions for those seeking europe to live in could create a climate of insecurity in certain places.
in this regard, it is important to improve legal certainty, strengthen safeguards and the protection of individuals and their privacy in order to ensure control of their personal data and trust in the digital environment, create a culture of risk management and improve information sharing between private and public entities.
to that end, operators of critical infrastructure, such as energy, transport and the main information society service providers, as well as public administrations, should take appropriate measures to manage security risks and report serious incidents to the competent national authorities.
the report also advocates the need to step up efforts to introduce a common charger, so as to simplify the use of equipment such as mobile phones and reduce waste and costs, which will benefit consumers.
- i agree that mobile phones placed on the market should be compatible with a common charger, in order to simplify the use of these devices and reduce waste and costs for consumers.
the number of mobile devices and wireless applications has grown exponentially in recent years, leading to more and more waste.
a common charger will substantially reduce this waste with the corresponding financial gains for everyone.
while recognising that there are no signs of recovery in social indicators in some member states and no sustainable signs yet in economic indicators, the report also recognises that, in terms of its objectives, strategic investment in measures with european added value should be strengthened to help put the european economy back on track, generating sustainable growth and jobs, while seeking to boost competitiveness and increase economic and social cohesion across the eu.
on the other hand, the climate of oppression in crimea explains the issues that will be put to the referendum: to be part of russia now or in the future.
2) roadmap for the security of land rights, including property rights, and sustainable land governance in developing countries: land reforms require a degree of flexibility that is consistent with local, social and cultural conditions, exemplified by traditional forms of tribal ownership, and should focus on empowering the most vulnerable.
the major challenges of the 21st century - food security, energy scarcity, water scarcity, urban and population growth, environmental degradation, climate change, natural disasters and country fragility - are all related to land governance issues, which reinforces the need to prioritise the implementation of comprehensive land reform.
- i voted in favour of this document which looks at promoting sustainable development in developing countries with a focus on property rights.
libya is today a country at risk of becoming a failed state and of provoking a security and even ecological disaster in the mediterranean.
in particular, the reduction by half of the number of people without sustainable access to improved drinking water sources, the significant reduction in the proportion of people living in urban slums, and the achievement of remarkable achievements in the fight against malaria and tuberculosis.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would stress that special attention must be paid to the least developed countries and to countries in conflict or post-conflict situations, given that the absence of peace and security remains one of the main obstacles to sustainable development.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the european union therefore considered it necessary to harmonize existing national legislation aimed at limiting the impact of noise on the health of its population and the protection of the environment.
- the present proposal aims to protect public health and the environment by means of measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
i would therefore like to congratulate the epp group and the committee on the environment on all the work they have done on this matter.
the proposal for a regulation, which amends the directive and the previous regulations, aims not only to increase the transparency of procedures but also to take account of the safety of practitioners and patients, quality and environmental concerns, and to improve access to information for patients and practitioners, with guarantees of confidentiality.
- i approve this report in view of the fact that in april 2010 the european commission presented, for the first time, a proposal for a regulation on the economic accounts of the environment of the european union.
- the data on the environment are very relevant from the point of view of analysing the environmental situation throughout the eu.
as i have always argued on these issues, preserving the environment is important for the abundance of resources for future generations.
i welcome the improved handling of environmental statistics.
- i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 2 april 2014 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the regulation on european environmental economic accounts and in which parliament encourages a wider use of data from environmental accounting by the european commission and national administrations to develop specific policies that contribute to the union's policy priorities on green growth and resource efficiency.
the development and availability of accurate indicators and descriptive statistics to monitor the evolution of economic and environmental factors and their possible interactions is undoubtedly a useful tool to support strategic planning, the definition of public policies and sustainable development pathways.
the new models will allow the extension of the available and integrated databases for applications, analyses and better policies in the field of environment and energy.
the data obtained can and should contribute to policy evaluation by allowing the environmental impact of economic activities to be measured.
environmental protection expenditure accounts, i.e.
the national economic resources devoted per resident unit to environmental protection, the quantity of environmental products and services that are created in industry, are also proposed energy flow accounts, energy inputs, energy products and energy waste during production, consumption and accumulation measured in terajoules per inhabitant
in writing.
in this context, i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council declaring 2015 the european year of development, regretting that a political majority had not been achieved for a european year against food waste.
- having no objection to the discharge to be given to the director of the european agency for the cooperation of energy regulators in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
in the context of definitions, i suggest that they be aligned as much as possible with the terminology used by the international atomic energy agency, so that they are consistent with the standards and procedures defined at world level.
the directive covers aspects ranging from provisions on the establishment of national legislative and regulatory frameworks in the field of nuclear safety of nuclear installations to the organisation, duties and responsibilities of the competent regulatory authorities, licensees, education and training of staff, information to the public, and the requirement for the functional separation of the competent regulatory authorities from any other body or organisation related to the promotion or use of nuclear energy.
this directive covers aspects of the establishment of national legislative and regulatory frameworks in the field of nuclear safety of nuclear installations, including the organisation of the duties and responsibilities of the competent regulatory authorities, of licence holders, of the education and training of personnel, of information to the public, and of the requirement for the functional separation of the competent regulatory authorities from any other body or organisation related to the promotion or use of nuclear energy.
in accordance with the guidelines of the euratom treaty, this process has reduced the powers of the member states to those of the european commission, a course which, in the light of legitimate concerns for security, serves only the interests of the multinational companies in the sector, putting at risk the access of the population to safe and affordable energy, as well as the safety of workers and the population itself.
- i approve this report in view of the fact that greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly.
the international civil aviation organization (icao) predicts that emissions will accumulate to 1900 mt by 2040. other estimates predict 3,500 to 4,500 mt by 2050.
3.5 gigatons is 20 percent of the amount of global emissions that need to be limited according to the ipcc in 2050 to contain climate change.
although the kyoto protocol is not enough on its own to curb the effects of climate change, at least on the part of the european union, it has had some effect in limiting emissions.
furthermore, no significant action has been taken on aviation emissions.
i believe that the aviation industry needs to be involved in the challenge of minimising climate change.
- the issue of greenhouse gas emissions is damaging to all of us.
i think it is essential that we try to reach agreements, the eu is known for its environmental policy, so it must play a more active role in this area in order to be able to conclude an agreement that is worthy of being honoured.
- i could not vote for the liese report on greenhouse gas emission allowances for commercial aviation, because flights originating or destined outside the union are exempt, which will benefit all international flights outside the eu, which are exempt from paying.
and an exception that is not consistent with the union's policy on combating climate change.
we advocate replacing a market approach with a normative and regulatory approach, in a framework for reducing emissions that does not depend on or feed into financial speculation.
the issue of greenhouse gas emission allowances and the trading of pollution allowances only serve the large polluters with the capacity to buy the allowances.
in addition, smaller airlines such as tap will be the most affected by the inclusion of aviation emissions in the global market.
here it is once again demonstrated that the eu's so-called environmental policies do not include a genuine concern for the environment and the future of the planet, being only a pretext for generating profits.
secondly, i see no reason why ukraine should be exempted from the human rights, labour and environmental clauses which are binding on all beneficiaries of trade preferences from the union, including the poorest.
- having regard to the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection,
in writing.
- this agency plays an important role in the cooperation between energy regulators.
the existence of this institution is essential for the functioning of competition in the energy market.
- in a world where chemicals are used for a wide variety of purposes and the need to regulate their use is growing, the european chemicals agency has a major role to play in benefiting human health and the environment.
in the case of the european environment agency, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information it provides is accurate and reliable.
i therefore congratulate the european environment agency on its excellent performance and on the fact that it has completed all the measures taken in response to the court of auditors' previous observations.
- having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european environment agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012, i voted in favour of this report.
issues such as marine pollution, trade and shipping are so important in the process of globalisation that the eu can never do without this agency.
i recall the launch of the 5th general report on european working conditions, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of employment, sustainable work and ageing of the labour force, health and well-being, working time and work-life balance.
i note that the 2012 annual programme was the last of the foundation's four-year programme from 2009 to 2012. i welcome the foundation's rapid response to the changes in policy priorities induced by the economic crisis, through the launch of new projects linked to priority themes on the social impact of the crisis, recovery and job creation, demographic change and sustainability of the public sector.
israel controls their lives, their energy, their water, their economy and their exits.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
- energy, telecommunications, postal services and public transport, among others, are services with a particular impact on the lives of citizens, so that they are often designated as public utilities.
in the case of the united kingdom, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's energy policy.
the rapporteur takes as a starting point that the benefits of liberalisation in the energy, telecommunications, postal services and public transport sectors have not been realised in some member states.
there is also the important objective of unlocking barriers to innovation in the sector that will improve the quality of service and passenger safety, as well as reducing the environmental impact.
if it can establish itself as a viable alternative to road transport, inland navigation could mean lower emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere and thus contribute to improving environmental conditions in the union.
the same applies to aerodynamic and energy absorbing locking devices which are installed in the tyre area laterally and rearwards under the semi-trailer, other trailers and vehicles.
these can not only considerably improve the energy efficiency of the vehicle, but also reduce the risk of injury to other road users.
this measure also creates a climate favourable to innovation and improvement of environmental performance, which i believe is fundamental.
i believe that metrology technologies can address challenges in areas such as health, environment and energy, including support for policy development and implementation.
on the one hand, the emergence of global markets encourages the development of social and environmental standards by companies; on the other hand, an increasingly alert and informed civil society requires companies to behave more responsibly.
in the same way, potential investors can more effectively determine the sustainability and therefore the long-term profitability of their investments.
- the disclosure of non-financial information makes it possible to obtain a clearer picture of the actual composition of societies in terms of environmental, social and labour issues, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption.
- the european commission's proposal has the express objective of improving the transparency of social and environmental information provided by companies in all sectors where the average number of employees is over 500, and which exceed either a total balance sheet value of eur 20 million or a net turnover of eur 40 million.
the text adopted limits the application of the directive to public-interest entities and to public-interest entities which are parent companies of a large group, the average number of employees of which in both cases exceeds 500. the text weakens the content of non-financial information, in particular with regard to: information on health and safety, use of renewable and non-renewable energy, greenhouse gas emissions, water use and air pollution, actions developed to ensure gender equality, implementation of the fundamental ilo conventions, working conditions, social dialogue, respect for the right of workers to be informed and consulted, respect for trade union rights, among others.
however, it is useless to ignore the difficulties of integration of certain immigrant communities and how the uncontrolled influx of people can jeopardise the balance of europe's populations and the sustainability of their communities.
this joint undertaking is a public-private partnership, in which the european union's participation takes the form of financial contributions granted, in particular under the horizon 2020 programme, for the purpose of research and development of innovation in the field of aeronautics, in order to minimise its impact on the environment.
the right investment would give new impetus to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, making the european union's economy a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
in my view, since its establishment, the joint undertaking has been demonstrating the potential of hydrogen as an efficient energy carrier and the possibilities that fuel cells can offer europe as energy converters to increase energy security, reduce harmful emissions and stimulate long-term growth.
without closer relations and a better understanding of the problematic situations and among the main partners, it will be much more difficult to find appropriate responses and ways of combating unemployment effectively and promoting levels of growth capable of making member states' economies more sustainable.
first, the need to adapt pension systems to ensure their financial sustainability; second, the need to improve the mobility of workers to make economic growth and job creation in europe a consistent reality.
therefore, it should be ensured that they comply with the rules specifying energy efficiency, noise levels and emission limits.
you can go a lifetime without being directly exposed to the price of stocks and bonds, but you can't go a lifetime without being exposed to the price of food or energy.
i understand that commodity markets have arisen out of the legitimate need of producers and consumers of raw materials, agricultural products and energy to protect themselves from the influence of factors beyond their control on prices.
the aim is to ensure the safety of the ship and its crew, while preventing marine accidents and pollution of the marine environment.
the europe 2020 strategy has set a target of 75% of active employment by 2020 and to have a realistic chance of achieving this target, we need to focus on how europe can create the right environment for job creation.
in addition to opening up new fishing opportunities for european fleets, this agreement could help seychelles to improve its fishing capacity and maximise the sustainability of its fisheries resources.
this protocol allows the european long-distance fishing fleet to maintain its strategic presence and increase its fishing opportunities, boosting the european economy, contributing to the sustainability of fisheries and preventing other international fleets operating without environmental and social concerns from taking the place of the european fleet in this important region for tuna fishing in the indian ocean.
this protocol allows for the consolidation of the strategic presence of the eu tuna fleet in this important fishing region of the indian ocean, provides significant fishing opportunities for the european fleet and enhances partnership and cooperation for the sustainable exploitation of fishery resources in comorian waters.
i believe that this fisheries agreement will help to consolidate the strategic presence of the eu tuna fleet and sustainable fishing in this important fishing area in the indian ocean, that the new protocol is balanced and favourable to both parties, and that the electoral process has contributed to the stabilisation of the political situation in madagascar, so i voted in favour of this report.
the agreement is comprehensive, enhancing political, economic and sectoral cooperation in the following policy areas: peace and security, conflict prevention and crisis management, trade, environment, energy, science and technology, good governance, tourism and culture, migration and the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
i voted in favour of the conclusion of this protocol which will allow the gradual opening of certain union programmes to georgia or an increase in georgia's participation in those programmes, which will provide an opportunity to promote new cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links and improve people-to-people contacts and sectoral cooperation and strengthen political relations through the eastern partnership and the conclusion of the association agreement.
council decision 2002/546/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises spain to apply, until 30 june 2014, exemptions or reductions from the tax (aiem) on certain locally produced products in the canary islands in order to enhance competitiveness and compensate for the additional costs of production resulting from isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to stockpile, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped nature of export activity.
- according to the explanatory memorandum of the commission proposal, council decision 2004/162/ec, adopted on the basis of article 349 tfeu, authorises france to provide, until 1 july 2014, for exemptions or reductions from excise duty for certain products produced in the french outermost regions (except saint martin) in order to strengthen competitiveness and compensate for the additional production costs resulting from isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to create reserves, the small size of the local market and the underdeveloped character of export activity.
- i approve this report, considering that the excessive consumption of single-use plastic bags is not only extremely inefficient from the point of view of resources, but also has negative consequences for the environment.
every year, 8 billion plastic bags end up as waste in the european union, including in the sea.
although 39 percent of plastic bags are incinerated, one in two plastic bags is sent to landfill, where it is blown away by the wind and dispersed into the environment.
the aim was to reduce the consumption of these very thin bags, which are being used less and less in favour of stronger and more durable bags, and which tend to increase the levels of waste.
this can be achieved by campaigns to raise awareness and environmental awareness, by encouraging the repackaging or re-transport of goods marketed by the various sectors and by calling on member states to promote the use of alternatives.
pollution is no less harmful if someone pays more or less.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the citizens of the community, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the pollution of the environment.
inefficient use of resources and cross-border environmental pollution are common challenges to all eu member states and require a common approach.
- the eu's targets to reduce greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions by 20% below 1990 levels by 2020 (and ideally by 30%), and the 2011 transport white paper which includes a 40% reduction in co2 emissions from shipping from 2005 levels by 2050, require policies to be implemented in this direction.
given the sector's dependence on the combustion of fossil fuels, its emissions contribute to air pollution and climate change.
this report presents a monitoring, reporting and verification system which serves the purpose of providing better information, not only on the amount of ghg emissions that are produced by this type of transport, but which will allow concrete data to be obtained and policies to be developed to reduce emissions.
- this report is of the utmost importance for shipping as it is the first step towards the creation of a market-based regime for co2 emissions.
since this amendment did not pass, i voted against this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013.
- i approve this report, considering that exotic species are transported out of their natural range through ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action.
some of these species can't adapt to their new environment and die quickly, but others can survive, reproduce and spread.
only 11% of the more than 12 000 exotic species recorded in europe have an impact on biodiversity and ecosystems, while 13% have some kind of economic impact.
however, their effects on biodiversity are significant and invasive alien species are considered the second most important factor in biodiversity loss, second only to habitat loss.
given that invasive alien species are recognised as one of the main causes of species extinction, measures should be taken to prevent and manage such situations by avoiding harmful consequences for biodiversity and ecosystems.
- the release of exotic species into the environment can lead to their proliferation and constitute a threat to indigenous species, with a negative impact on biodiversity and the balance of ecosystems.
invasive species are a serious problem in virtually all regions of the world, a process associated with anthropogenic action that has become so acute that it has assumed the dimension of a global crisis, generating extensive negative repercussions on the ecological balance, the economy, agriculture, society, in particular through health problems, and culture.
- exotic species are transported out of their natural range through ecological barriers by direct or indirect human action.
some of these species fail to adapt to their new environment and die quickly, but others survive, reproduce and spread and even become pests, eliminating endogenous biodiversity.
prevention aims to reduce the number of new invasive alien species entering the eu, thereby avoiding increased threats to biodiversity and negative impacts on society and the economy.
where the greatest benefits for biodiversity and for society and the economy can be achieved.
- i approve this report in view of the fact that the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, starting on 1 january 2013 and ending on 31 december 2020. this protocol includes legally binding emission reduction commitments whereby the european union, its member states and iceland commit to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the years 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their emissions in the base year.
in addition, the doha amendment introduced the following changes to the kyoto protocol: first, the inclusion of a new gas; second, an ambition mechanism that provides for a simplified procedure to allow a party to adjust its commitment by increasing its ambition over a commitment period; third, a provision that automatically adjusts a party's objective to avoid an increase in its emissions in the period from 2013 to 2020 beyond its average emissions for the years 2008 to 2010.
in writing.
regardless of the more or less extreme positions that are taken regarding the cause and consequences of climate change and the real global impact of measures taken by human populations, i believe that a change in attitude towards the way we understand the environment must take place, otherwise we will reduce the chances of leaving our children a planet in good habitable conditions.
i therefore agree with the commission's legislative proposal to introduce provisions to approximate national legal systems, including criminal law measures, in order to combat fraud and other illegal activities harmful to the union budget, in order to create a truly deterrent and punitive environment for fraud.
- the idea of improving the safety of vessels and their crews, the proper functioning of the market in marine equipment and the preservation of the environment are the underlying ideas behind the change in the european legal order in this area.
i voted in favour of this proposal, which parliament has significantly improved by adding to the objectives: 1) the need to pay particular attention to the fight against youth unemployment, the promotion of sustainable employment and the fight against social dumping, 2) involving the social partners and the national employment services and 3) respecting the organisation of competences in the various member states.
i would stress again that it is important that we exploit existing resources in a responsible way so that they can be maintained in a sustainable way.
- this report concerns the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) which will be operational in the eu for the period 2014-2020. the emff is of great importance due to the reform of the cfp and should reflect the requirements imposed on fisheries operators and promote the environmental, social and economic sustainability of the sector.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it contains a set of fundamental measures to strengthen the sustainability and competitiveness of the sector and to improve the income of fishermen.
i would like to conclude by expressing my concern that in practice projects that provide short- or medium-term income will continue to be preferred and that this preference will interfere with investment in long-term projects, which are key to achieving the eu's strategic objectives for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- this regulation will increase the capital available for long-term investment in the european union economy with the aim of financing the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive growth economy.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
- i approve this report, since according to the european environment agency, in 2009 the member states of the european union produced more than 74 million tonnes of hazardous waste (28% more than in 2000).
according to eurostat, in 2010 the member states of the european union produced 101 thousand tonnes of hazardous waste and a total of 927 thousand tonnes of waste excluding important mineral wastes.
i would also remind you that exports of hazardous waste to non-oecd countries are prohibited under the regulation on shipments of waste.
exports for the recovery of non-hazardous waste to non-oecd countries are permitted provided that the importing country has not raised any objections to such imports and the facilities receiving the waste operate in accordance with standards of human health and environmental protection which are broadly equivalent to those laid down in community legislation.
in the case of the waste, the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the interests of the community.
the environment must be one of our greatest concerns.
we must avoid at all costs contamination by toxic or poisonous wastes which can endanger our health and the preservation of the environment.
- according to the european environment agency (eea), in 2009 eu member states produced more than 74 million tonnes (mt) of hazardous waste (28% more than in 2000).
according to eurostat, in 2010 eu member states produced 101 mt of hazardous waste and 927 mt of waste in total, excluding major mineral wastes.
indeed, firm action against illegal transfers is a win-win solution for the environment and health, as well as for industry and the economy.
- i approve this report, considering that this agreement should serve to reaffirm shared values, common objectives and common responsibilities in the promotion of peace, stability, parliamentary democracy and sustainable development worldwide and a sound multilateral system.
parliament reaffirmed the shared values, objectives and responsibilities for promoting peace, stability, parliamentary democracy, sustainable development worldwide and a strong multilateral system and called for the eu and japan to continue to work together to strengthen and reform the united nations, including the security council.
the end of the strategic holidays implies that the european union recognizes its fragility in terms of its energy dependence and its limited military capacity and is able to understand the need to build itself up as a solid and capable pillar of nato.
we need to be able to lead a new stage of industrialisation, clean innovation, a new, diversified energy model, create skilled jobs, particularly for young people, and multiply entrepreneurial havens where the new generation of european industry can be born.
you brought to this house what europe needs so much: pro-european passion, mediterranean temperament, energy and political will for change.
you said that today’s selfie of europe would be one of a tired, bored continent, and i want to underline that the commission is ready for full and close cooperation with you and your team, and i am also sure that, thanks to italian energy, enthusiasm and reform, the selfie of europe in six months’ time will be significantly refreshed.
for example, i ask how it is possible to think that italy's position on the environment is the one that was described by a blue card and then by the leader of the greens.
i wonder how anyone can imagine, for example, that the subject of energy is not being discussed when we in rome have hosted the g7 on energy at the initiative of italy.
and i very much agree with some of the reflections on interconnection, especially from spain and france, and the whole issue of the energy report, which is no longer just east or west, but north and south.
this choice must be the result of clear commitments: commitments to investment, to the intelligent management of migration flows, to territorial cohesion, to innovation, to the new industry and to a strategic commitment to clean energy.
between those who advocate environmental sustainability and the safeguarding of public health, and those who in exchange for new markets give in to principles such as that of precaution.
the european parliament has already declared its support for the development of these negotiations and has advocated the safeguarding of european values and of the social, labour and environmental aspects.
the removal of such barriers is essential, but must be approached with due caution, avoiding at all costs a deterioration of the environmental and consumer protection standards in force in the european union.
i would like to ask the european commission how this is being defended in the context of the negotiations with regard to, for example, the agri-food sector and the less stringent american standards for the environment and animal feed.
madam president, commissioner, the european union cannot waste the energy, creativity and skills of young people.
in the field of job creation, i would also stress the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises and the attention and favourable environment we should give them.
i would also go a step further and advocate the use of the european social fund, the erdf and the eafrd, which are essential for the sustainable integration of young people into the labour market.
i would also like to congratulate lithuania on its sound and sustainable public finances, including a budget deficit of 2.1%, a public debt of 39.4% of gross domestic product and an average inflation rate of 0.6%, thus giving the country financial independence conducive to new strategic investments.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, to speak of payment expenditure is to speak of investments already made in favour of innovation, research, the promotion of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the promotion of employment.
i would like to appeal to my colleagues, to the european politicians, not to waste this opportunity to question, without prejudice, the end of milk quotas and the consequences that the lack of an effective mechanism for regulating the markets will bring to european milk producers.
to be effective, the union must commit itself to the enforcement of economic, financial and defence sanctions, ensuring that dual-use equipment does not escape the arms embargo, and must support democratic governance in ukraine, including its ability to invest in the diversification of energy sources, alternatives to the dependence on russia, which must also strategically impose itself on the union.
we propose social and environmental criteria and solutions that lead to mutual benefits, while respecting the sovereignty of each country.
we need a new industrial revolution, industrialisation 4.0, based on clean innovation and the cloud, based on the energy union and based on the new digital agenda.
this situation may affect the sustainability of research and scientific employment in many countries, including the united kingdom.
horizon 2020 was created to ensure sustainable growth rates for the european union.
madam president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states have been at the forefront of the global fight to limit greenhouse gas emissions from the very beginning.
it has not only reduced its emissions, but it has also paid off the financial commitments it had made to developing countries so that they, in turn, would join the global effort to reduce those emissions.
reality increasingly leads us to believe that the need to involve our external partners in this process is crucial, in a context where the european union accounts for an ever-decreasing share of global emissions.
underlying the climate negotiations are two conflicting development models: one that remains stuck in the past and one that looks to the future.
the truth is that globalisation results in part from the competitiveness of industry, it results in the loss of competitiveness of european industry vis-à-vis our external partners when they gain advantages through environmental dumping.
however, the current costs of investing in research, innovation and the conversion of our means of production as well as in a societal model are far lower than the future environmental costs if nothing is done.
we must work to get truly ambitious and binding commitments if we are to continue to believe that it is possible to stop the climate change that is taking place.
the technologies exist, but burning is cheaper, and the question i'm asking you here, given the position of your carbon market advocacy group, a mechanism that has revealed to society its perversity, that has brought us to this situation where burning is cheaper, is whether you are willing to finally change that position and advocate instead of the market approach that you have been advocating, a regulatory approach that replaces the carbon market.
mr president, on the eve of another climate summit, we leave here questions that we have left in the past and which remain unanswered.
first, the carbon market.
the european union, which claims to be a world leader in combating climate change, is the same one that is pursuing the deregulation of international trade outside the world, thus increasing the flows of energy and material associated with the satisfaction of the most basic human needs.
at the same time, it is necessary to create a favourable environment for small and medium-sized enterprises.
the european union must waste no more time and provide a mission within the framework of the common security and defence policy, which focuses on assisting disarmament and reform of the security system in libya.
the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment, and we are also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
now, suggestions are made regarding research, the environment, gender equality... i am not saying that they are not important, they are important, but until we focus on the real problem, which is unemployment, we will have no solution.
it faces enormous challenges in terms of economic growth, the reindustrialisation of europe and its compatibility with climate objectives.
energy policy is of undeniable importance to both sides of this equation.
if there are energy over-charges to be tackled, we cannot distort the reality and focus only on mature renewable energy.
if we want to focus on energy efficiency, security of supply and counteract our dependence on the outside world, we must ensure a stable environment for investment in these areas.
we must set ambitious targets for limiting greenhouse gas emissions and binding and ambitious targets for the penetration of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
i therefore call on the next european council to respect parliament's position and to establish a framework for 2030 on energy and climate that promotes green growth, that represents a lower burden on the european trade balance and that reduces air pollution.
finally, i would like to point out that the single european energy market is not possible without the crossborder infrastructure necessary for the transit of energy flows.
it is unacceptable that geographical areas should remain almost isolated from the european energy system and which could otherwise contribute greatly to lower costs and to security of supply.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy and climate objectives.
i believe that we need a european new deal to relaunch growth and sustainable development.
europe remains indeed the best promise of sustainable development, democracy and citizenship, but we must recognise that we are confronted with important divergences now.
you said where you would invest: broadband networks, energy networks, transport networks, education, research, innovation, renewable energy and energy efficiency.
we must position the european union as the forerunner of a new economy with a human face, capable of combining energy and information and capable of creating dignity and happiness for those who live in it.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the sustainable development and energy coordination portfolios to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in the course of this process, which has strengthened the democratic functioning of the european union, the demanding attitude of the socialists has led to improvements in the proposed commission, such as the allocation of the portfolios of sustainable development and energy coordination to socialist commissioners, as well as new commitments on the economic agenda.
in addition, the set of proposals we have put forward covers a number of areas, with particular emphasis on social and economic (in defence of national production) and environmental.
- in this global world, the eu must be competitive, uphold its values and social status, and ensure that all resources are able to promote sustainable growth, job creation and territorial cohesion.
the economic environment in europe is further characterised by a sluggish gdp (increased by 0.2% in the eu28 in the second quarter of 2014), markedly low inflation (reduced by 0.3% in august 2014) and an excessively high unemployment rate (11.5% in the euro area and 10.2% in the eu28 in july 2014).
the report is full of the rhetoric of socially balanced and sustainable growth, the call for job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, and everything that is intended to make us believe that we are entering a new cycle.
the paper is the best: development of smes, with the aim of promoting sustainable, smart and inclusive economic growth and quality employment; combating youth unemployment; and so on... this report calls not only for the continuation of this unacceptable process but for the deepening of its basic features.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources.
the more migrants who arrive in the union - not in a desperate flight, but as part of a common project they want to share - and the more europeans who leave our territory not in disillusionment, but with a universalist sense and a global vision, the more humane and sustainable the migration policy of the eu can be.
the establishment of such agreements involves the adaptation and implementation of measures with implications for third countries with which moldova has trade relations, using this country as a pawn to try to impose changes in the legislation of the russian federation that correspond to the interests of the major economic groups and eu powers, in particular in the energy and other natural resources sector.
the zclaa includes a number of provisions aimed at reforming moldova's trade and related policies, on the basis of and in line with the eu acquis, which will contribute to modernising the economy and consolidating eu investment in the country and fostering a more favourable and predictable political environment.
the increase in extreme poverty, climate change, the unequal distribution of wealth and the exploitation of resources only further aggravate the situation.
good governance, the fight against corruption, the functioning of administrations and the creation of infrastructure are prerequisites for sustainable economic development.
- i voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the very serious humanitarian situation in south sudan, declared by the un as a level 3 emergency, the worst kind of humanitarian crisis, and i join in condemning the renewed violence and the repeated violations of the ceasefire agreement signed on 23 january 2014, and in calling for the allegations of atrocities against the population to be duly investigated and those responsible to be punished, and for the warring parties to participate constructively, through dialogue and cooperation, in the addis ababa peace talks, with a view to the full implementation of the ceasefire agreement and the swift reopening of talks to establish a transitional government of national unity, which can pave the way for a lasting and sustainable solution to the current conflict.
it is essential that the debate on the post-2015 development agenda leads to clear priorities for sustainable development.
and the report we are discussing today, with all the contributions it has welcomed, makes a relevant contribution to this debate and takes on what should be our ambition: to put the european union, which is already the largest donor of development aid, at the head of this process, in defence of an ambitious, sustainable and universal agenda, and an agenda that spares no effort in combating poverty and inequalities.
mr president, commissioner, cohesion policy, which consists of the european social fund, the erdf and the cohesion fund, contributes to inclusive growth, sustainable growth and smart growth, helps us to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in terms of employment, research and innovation, helps us to strengthen our competitiveness, improve our skills, help us to combat climate change and also help us to combat poverty.
recognize that, contrary to what they proclaimed, the liberalizations and privatizations of strategic sectors of the economy have subjected smes to the predation of monopolies and oligopolies, energy, telecommunications, banking, insurance and others... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, (beginning of speech inaudible as microphone switched off) the commission coming from this house and welcome to the very promising italian presidency.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the europe 2020 strategy can only lead europe to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth if it starts to give greater importance to social and employment objectives.
we must improve access to finance for small and mediumsized enterprises, since they are the ones who create jobs and sustain the economy, and we must also focus more on the factors of competitiveness in order to promote genuine and sustainable reindustrialisation.
the railway protocol advocates the transition to greener and more sustainable modes of transport, such as rail, an objective that was highlighted in the 2011 transport white paper.
it was signed by the eu, by prior council decision, on 10 december 2009. the rapporteur notes that the proposal under discussion is intrinsically linked to the implementation of the fourth railway package, which includes the objective of advancing innovation and investment in this sector at european level by using greener and more sustainable modes of transport.
i therefore believe that the essential conditions for the european parliament to have given its favourable approval to this proposal, which i consider to be beneficial in creating a genuine and sustainable market for railway equipment in europe, are fulfilled.
- following the latest un reports on the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agenda, we must now look at the new negotiating frameworks in a coherent way and in a way that is appropriate to the new global challenges that are emerging, such as poverty, human rights, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change and financial and economic crises.
i believe, as i have said in the past, that the eu's response to these problems must be one voice, strong, clear and cohesive, while allocating funding to sustainable development based on good governance.
the evaluations carried out in the meantime highlight the progress made in implementing the strategy, and underline the need for a strong link between poverty eradication and the promotion of sustainable development.
it is therefore urgent and necessary to strengthen as a priority the eradication of poverty, the reduction of inequality, sustainable development, a human rights-based approach, conflict prevention, post-conflict recovery, consolidation and promotion of lasting peace; climate change mitigation, environmental protection and disaster risk reduction, combining food security, nutrition, sustainable agriculture, combating soil degradation, water and sanitation with health and education, and to take a central role for women in the post-2015 global development framework, as well as inclusive and sustainable growth and the creation of decent jobs.
despite the positive results achieved, key issues such as poverty, human rights violations, inequality, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change and environmental protection, food insecurity, migration, limited access to health and education services, unemployment, demographic change, corruption and unsustainable growth will continue to pose complex challenges in the coming decades, which will have to be addressed in the definition of the post-2015 global development framework.
- the integrated approach of the europe 2020 strategy emphasises the principle that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved unless all five major objectives are met.
the europe 2020 strategy emphasises the principle that smart, sustainable and inclusive growth cannot be achieved unless all five major objectives are met.
we need to find ways of encouraging sustainable job creation.
effective measures should therefore be taken to promote smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and job creation, including in the context of public investment in innovation, research and development and vocational qualifications and skills, as well as in meeting the eu reindustrialisation targets, encouraging entrepreneurship and eliminating administrative burdens.
in the last few decades, climate change has impacted natural and human systems on every continent and poses an unprecedented threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet.
the whole world must therefore prepare a response to the challenge of climate change as a matter of urgency.
to this end, i consider it essential that an agreement is reached at the paris climate conference in december 2015 establishing an ambitious, legally binding international agreement for climate action beyond 2020. on the other hand, there is an urgent need to strengthen and extend existing measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and beyond.
in parallel, increased funding from developed countries for mitigation, adaptation, technology transfer and development and capacity building in developing countries should be provided, in line with the establishment of a green climate fund.
climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, which thus requires the international response of all parties.
climate change has impacted natural and human systems on every continent and in the oceans, and is affecting the flora and fauna of the planet.
however, the eu has been reducing its emissions and as a result has almost halved its average emission intensity between 1990 and 2012 and reduced per capita emissions by 25%.
according to the world bank, the fight against climate change would add up to €1.9 billion annually and it is important that governments take concrete action against climate change without further delay and towards a global agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve this goal.
- we agree to more ambitious greenhouse gas emission reduction targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations).
we agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change.
instead of a regulatory approach, there is a continued insistence on a market approach to climate change, in the carbon market, in the buying and selling of the right to pollute.
the carbon market has not only failed to reduce emissions, but is now objectively a disincentive to the adoption of low-carbon technologies.
we have also long advocated the need for sectoral policies - trade, agriculture, energy and others - to be consistent with emission reduction targets.
climate change poses an urgent and potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, which thus requires the international response of all parties.
governments must therefore take concrete action against climate change without further delay and towards a global agreement in paris in 2015 to achieve the goals that have been negotiated for several years.
climate change poses a potentially irreversible threat to human societies, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore requires an urgent and determined international response.
the measures to be taken include, inter alia, the conclusion of an agreement at the paris climate conference in december 2015 (cop 21) establishing an ambitious, legally binding international agreement for climate action beyond 2020; the urgent strengthening and broadening of existing measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions by 2020; and the increase of financing by developed countries for reduction, adaptation, technology transfer and development and capacity building in developing countries, as well as the simultaneous increase of official development assistance to meet the long-promised target of 0,7% of gross national income.
in this regard, it is appropriate to underline the importance of the next united nations climate change conference (cop 20), to be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december 2014, and to call on the eu and its member states to play a constructive and leading role in it.
- we agree on greenhouse gas emission reduction targets, with greater concern for meeting the targets set and with the need for other, more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations).
we also agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change.
as regards the carbon market, it is not mentioned that 1999 was precisely the year when this flexible mechanism was introduced under the kyoto protocol and that the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme was launched in 2005. instead of a regulatory approach, a market approach to climate change is still being insisted on, and while acknowledging the failure of this policy option, the eu is only concerned with lower profits and disinterest in buying allowances, proposing to remove excess allowances from circulation.
as in previous resolutions, we agree on greenhouse gas emission reduction targets; greater concern with meeting the targets set and the need for other, more ambitious targets (in line with the ipcc recommendations).
we agree with the principle of sharing responsibility and helping developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change.
the objectives of the kyoto protocol, with these mechanisms, which were to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, with co2 as an index, have been replaced by the desire to see another functioning, free market generating millions of euros, becoming a business opportunity, as we have always said.
this parliament is simply proposing green solutions, such as a part of the revenue from this market being allocated to financing the fight against climate change.
in fact, they want to take advantage of the climate created around this scandal to blame juncker without blaming the system he represents - a system from which tax havens, in particular in the city, offshore and deregulation of the financial system are constituent parts.
we agree with the aim of improving the rigour and credibility of the impact assessment (ia) process, ensuring that economic, social and environmental aspects are assessed in equal depth and that the approach is carried out in all initiatives legislative proposals; commission legislative and work programme; non-legislative initiatives that define future policies; and commission delegated or implementing acts that may have significant identifiable impacts.
ai, as an instrument at an early stage in the development of the legislative framework, plays a crucial role in the commission's smart regulation agenda, with the aim of providing transparent, comprehensive and balanced data on the economic, social and environmental consequences, the added value of eu action, the expected administrative and regulatory burdens, and the costs and benefits of alternative lines of action for all stakeholders.
impact assessments are an important tool to support decision-making in the legislative process, as they allow data to be collected on the economic, social and environmental consequences of legislative proposals, the added value of eu action, the expected administrative and regulatory burdens, and the costs and benefits of alternative lines of action.
impact assessments play a key role as a pre-legislative tool to provide transparent, comprehensive and balanced data on the economic, social and environmental consequences of eu action.
this will promote an improvement in legislative procedures and ensure a careful assessment of the economic, social and environmental aspects associated with them.
- we agree on the objective of improving the impact assessment (ia) process, covering economic, social and environmental aspects.
the approach should be applied to all initiatives: legislative proposals and the commission's legislative and work programme, legislative proposals not included in that programme with clearly identifiable economic, administrative, social and environmental impacts, non-legislative initiatives defining future policies and delegated or implementing acts of the commission which may have significant impacts identifiable in the same terms.
we agree with the aim of improving the impact assessment (ia) process, ensuring that economic, social and environmental aspects are assessed in equal depth and that the approach is carried out in all initiatives: legislative proposals in the commission's legislative and work programme, legislative proposals not included in the said programme that have clearly identifiable economic, administrative, social and environmental impacts, non-legislative initiatives that define future policies and commission delegated or implementing acts that may have significant identifiable impacts in the same terms.
the creation of a european digital single market offers the possibility of significant economic efficiency gains of up to eur 260 billion per year, and is a powerful engine for growth in the european economy, which could lead to a 4% increase in european gdp by 2020 and the creation of 3 million quality and sustainable jobs between 2013 and 2018. in addition, the development of cloud computing, in the context of bridging the digital divide and connectivity on the continent, must be accompanied by the defence of digital entrepreneurship, copyright and intellectual property, as well as the protection of consumer rights (the protection of personal data, the protection of children, access to information and the right to privacy).
nearly 20 million children still suffer from acute malnutrition in the last stage, whether in emergency or non-emergency situations, and only 10% of these children have access to treatment; that is why it is crucial that governments reaffirm the right to food and commit to halving, from 840 million to 420 million, the number of hungry and malnourished people by 2015. the eu should increase support for small and medium-sized sustainable agriculture producing mainly for local consumption and invest in participatory plans of national initiative to be implemented at local level in cooperation with farmers and their representatives, local and regional authorities and civil society organisations.
addressing this problem of child malnutrition requires an integrated approach and coordinated action across a range of policies and sectors, such as health, education, agriculture, access to water, energy and sanitation, as well as the responsible involvement of all international actors and other stakeholders.
the commission's proposal on fuel quality is in contradiction with its rhetoric on combating climate change and the transition to a low-carbon economy.
it is a welcome proposal for projects to exploit unconventional fuels, although the relevant environmental issues arising in this area underestimate the associated greenhouse gas emissions, which are alarmingly high.
this process will lead to more marine pollution, including many alien species.
for this reason, i call for a real environmental impact study to be carried out, one which is holistic, comprehensive, in-depth, international and, most importantly, consequential.
blue growth requires not just investment in the marine environment, it essentially requires intelligence in the precautionary approach to our common future.
from resource efficiency to biodiversity conservation to energy issues, the challenges are undeniable and surely best tackled together.
accession is therefore a logical and necessary step to ensure that the european union is in a position to pursue the objectives of environmental policy.
however, since the matters covered by cites (environmental protection and trade) fall within the eu's competence and its accession to cites will enable it to participate fully in the work of the convention, ensuring the conditions for the pursuit of its environmental policy objectives, i voted in favour of this resolution, which approves the eu's accession to cites.
since the convention's fields of action concern the protection of the environment and international trade, the former being a competence shared with the member states and the latter an exclusive competence of the union, i consider the eu's accession to the cites convention to be a logical and very welcome step, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
the eu's accession to cites was a consistent and necessary step forward in ensuring that the european union is fully equipped to pursue its environmental policy objectives.
‒ contacts on a participation of morocco in the galileo programme started on 24 march 2004. following a round of bilateral talks, on 13 october the moroccan minister for equipment and transport sent a letter to the director-general for energy and transport of the european commission confirming morocco's intention to conclude a cooperation agreement with the eu on the satellite radio navigation system for civil use.
the first agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and ukraine was signed in july 2002, approved by the council on 6 february 2003. it was an agreement whose content was based on areas of cooperation in environmental and climate research, biomedical, health, research in the field of agriculture, forestry and fisheries, industrial technologies, raw materials and production, as well as research in the field of transport, social sciences and training, including exchange of scientists.
the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
in addition, the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively referred to as horizontal and framework policies.
in addition, the agreement includes cooperation in other important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture, collectively referred to as horizontal and framework policies.
‒ the agreement on the european economic area, which has been in force since 1 january 1994, brings together the eu member states, iceland, liechtenstein and norway in a single market, providing for the extension of eu legislation on the four freedoms (the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital) to the above mentioned european free trade association member countries, as well as cooperation between the parties in areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
the agreement includes cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection, tourism and culture.
other on 10 february 2004, the council adopted a decision authorising france to apply, until 1 july 2014, exemptions or reductions from the excise duty on certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions, in order to compensate for the constraints to which they are subject, such as remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market size and poorly developed export activity affecting the outermost regions.
the desirable stimulus to economic activity and competitiveness in these regions justifies the adoption of this measure, which is intended to combat isolation and distance, dependence on raw materials and energy, the small size of the market and the stimulation of export activity (which is not very developed in these regions).
‒ we agree with the principle that france may apply exemptions or reductions from excise duty to certain products manufactured in the french outermost regions (with the exception of saint martin) in order to compensate for the disadvantages of the outermost regions concerned (remoteness, dependence on raw materials and energy, small market size and underdeveloped export activity) and to support their competitiveness and socioeconomic development.
and the backsliding is obvious, the backsliding is blatant on environmental issues.
mr president of the commission, mr vice-president, we are here to discuss the commission's work programme for 2015. it turns out that you want to abolish, once and for all, certain environmental laws, such as air quality, recycling of urban waste and the circular economy.
mr juncker, i would like you to reassure us that the alleged attempt to repeal the directives to reduce air pollution from vehicles in our cities, which set a recycling target of 70%, and the one that sets a recycling target of 70% of waste in the european union by 2030, is not serious and that you, mr president, did not realise that your vice-president had played this brave game for you and for all of us.
what do you have to say about this and how will you manage the conflict that seems to have broken out between mr timmermans and the environment commissioner, who said last week that he would not allow the two environmental directives to be scrapped?
written.. the european commission under jean claude juncker has created a positive expectation among those who want to see the european union as a benchmark for economic, social and environmental sustainability in the context of globalisation.
over 16.5 million euros will help croatia to repair the damage that has seriously affected it this year and so we see what the results of climate change are.
on the other hand, taking into account the need, already recognised by the heads of government, for investment geared to the future and european competitiveness, which makes it possible to exploit synergies in the fields of energy, innovation or transport.
we must have the energy union, we must have transparency and clear fiscal convergence, we must have a clear timetable for completing economic and monetary union.
support the mobilisation of eur 46 998 528 for the member states concerned, which will help the eu to demonstrate its solidarity and support for the affected countries by contributing to the financing of urgent measures such as the immediate restoration of the functioning of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy production, drinking water supply, waste water treatment, telecommunications, transport, health and education; the implementation of interim accommodation measures and the provision of relief services to meet the immediate needs of the affected population; the immediate reinforcement of preventive infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage sites; the immediate clean-up of disaster areas, including natural areas.
this draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerns the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, a reduction in the appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, as well as an increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman.
- having regard to the draft amending budget (dab) no 6/2014 concerning the revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni contributions, a reduction in the appropriations for the european maritime and fisheries fund and the reserve for sustainable fisheries partnership agreements, and an increase in the appropriations for the european ombudsman, whereas the overall revenue impact of this op consists of a reduction in the mobilisation of own resources of eur 4 095,5 million and its objective is to formally enter these adjustments in the budget for the financial year 2014, noting that the adoption of this op 6/2014 reduces the gni contribution needs of the member states by eur 4515,5 million and increases the estimates for traditional own resources by eur 420 million, i declare that i voted in favour of this resolution approving the council's position on draft amending budget no 6/2014.
support the mobilisation of eur 79 726 440 for the member states concerned, which helps the eu to demonstrate its solidarity and support for the affected countries by contributing to the financing of urgent measures such as the immediate restoration of the functioning of infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy production, drinking water supply, waste water treatment, telecommunications, transport, health and education; the implementation of interim accommodation measures and the provision of relief services to meet the immediate needs of the affected population; the immediate consolidation of preventive infrastructure and the protection of cultural heritage sites; the immediate cleaning up of disaster areas, including natural areas.
damage has been caused to public infrastructure and equipment in the fields of energy, water and water resources, telecommunications, transport, health, education, emergency services, cultural heritage and protected natural areas.
i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, amounting to eur 79 726 440, for the mitigation of damage caused by the severe floods in serbia and croatia in may 2014 and for the floods in bulgaria in june 2014, on the basis of point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013. we are faced with natural disasters which have affected various economic sectors in a very negative and very significant way, including energy, mining and agriculture, as well as road infrastructure, public telecommunications equipment, health, education and coastal protection facilities, which can and should be covered by the scope of application of the solidarity fund.
it also got the european institutions to commit to a plan to bring the value of outstanding invoices down to sustainable levels by 2016, as by the end of this year it is estimated that they will amount to around €23 billion.
the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union.
finally, while it is essential that efforts to reduce outstanding invoices to a sustainable level be stepped up in the coming years, the agreement reached will allow the most urgent payment needs to be met in 2014. it is therefore important to acknowledge the excellent work done by the representatives of parliament, among whom i would like to highlight mr josé manuel fernandes.
fuel suppliers shall report life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel energy and energy supplied.
oil sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter.
a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimates the ghg emissions associated with them.
directive 98/70/eu (revised) on the specification of petrol and diesel fuel requires suppliers to report annually on life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel and energy supplied in each member state and to reduce the life cycle ghg emissions intensity of fuels supplied by 31 december 2020 by at least 6% compared to the european average of life cycle emissions per unit of energy produced from fossil fuels in 2010. i consider that the draft council directive is not compatible with the purpose and content of directive 98/70/eu.
the commission considers that the appropriate measures for calculating and measuring compliance with the already established 6% reduction in greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions are sufficient.
oil sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter.
the commission ignores these differences and assumes common emission values for different fuels, which is a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimate the associated ghg emissions.
i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive laying down the calculation methods and reporting requirements under directive 98/70/ec of the european parliament and of the council on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels because i believe that the european union has to take a consistent position on the fight against climate change, the promotion of clean energy and the energy transition towards a sustainable growth model.
fuel suppliers shall report life cycle greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions per unit of fuel energy and energy supplied.
tar sands), with emissions on average higher in the latter.
a clear favour to multinationals involved in the exploitation of unconventional fuels, which grossly underestimates the ghg emissions associated with them.
we support the resolution when it calls for the development of industrial production in all member states, when it warns of energy prices and environmental issues, or when it stresses the need to invest in research and innovation.
as regards state aid to energy-intensive industries, it is argued that it should not distort the internal market by ensuring a level playing field for undertakings.
it is therefore necessary to speed up the preparation of the industrial policy package announced for the first part of 2015 in order to revive european industry on the world market, to ensure a level playing field and to ensure high social and environmental standards in the european union, while pushing for reciprocity from third countries.
in recent years, the steel industry has faced some difficulties, caused in particular by an investment crisis, a slump in global demand, rising energy costs and the increased outsourcing of european production.
it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to support this sector, aimed at removing obstacles and threats to its competitiveness, promoting its sustainability and making it able to react to changing conditions on european and non-european markets.
it is true that this sector has suffered a sharp decline in demand, leading to increased unemployment, but it is also true that the eu must preserve the activities which constitute its industrial fabric, ensuring the security of energy supply through internal demand.
as such, i support the commission's action plan for the steel sector, but draw attention to the need to draw up an analysis report on the current situation of the steel industry on our continent, analysing its economic, social and environmental impact and reflecting on medium and long-term support initiatives.
finally, i would point out the need to place this support within a wider framework of support for european manufacturing industry, since only in this way (in a sound way and by investing in research, innovation, the qualification of human resources and energy efficiency, and possibly by using community funds) can its competitiveness be ensured, its added value stimulated and its important social role enhanced.
we agree with the resolution when it calls for the development of industrial production in all member states, when it warns of energy prices and environmental issues, or when it stresses the need for investment in research and innovation.
as regards state aid to energy-intensive industries, it is argued that it should not distort the internal market by ensuring a level playing field for undertakings.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
following the request submitted by the philippines, the special incentive arrangement for sustainable development and good governance, known as gsp+, is intended to provide duty-free access to approximately 66% of the total tariff lines under the normal gsp.
since this special scheme is conditional on the implementation of ratification by the countries of relevant international conventions on sustainable development, it does not appear to me that the philippines fulfils the conditions for accessing this special scheme.
the generalised system of preferences consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (gsp+), without the levying of duties on imports from beneficiary countries in relation to 66% of all eu tariff lines.
because i believe that the european union must be a credible international actor and promote consistency in its action, because i believe that our partner third countries must abide by the same rules to which we are subject, namely those relating to human rights, labour, environmental protection and (good) governance, because i believe that our industrial sector, namely the canning industry (but also the textile and clothing and bicycle industry), must be protected from unfair competition by third country companies, i was one of the promoters of this resolution (and previously of the resolution on the same subject voted in the inta committee) which sought to prevent the immediate granting of a very broad set of customs benefits (gsp+) to the philippines.
the gsp system consists of a general scheme and two special schemes, including the special incentive scheme for sustainable development and good governance (sgsp+), without the levying of any duties on imports from beneficiary countries in relation to 66% of all eu tariff lines.
the commission, in its resolution of 17 november 2011 on combating illegal fishing worldwide, explicitly states that iuu fishing threatens the sustainability of fish stocks and that the concept of the responsibility of the marketing state as a means of blocking access to markets for iuu fishery products needs to be further developed.
the eu will benefit from greater trade flows and better investment conditions in the country, promoting the modernisation of the economy and providing a more favourable and predictable political environment.