beyond the blatant conflict between... (speaker was interrupted)
(rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism) − madam president, commissioner, cars and vans together account for more than half of the total greenhouse gas emissions in the european transport sector.
the amendment of regulation (ec) no 510/2011 on the reduction of co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles has a significant impact on both light commercial vehicle users, the automotive and related industries and the environment and aims to reduce fuel consumption and related costs for owners of light commercial vehicles.
we welcome the commission's decision to adopt a statement to respond to parliament's request for co2 emissions targets for 2025. we also welcome the shift of the post-2020 decision from 2014 to 2015, which will allow for better documentation with a fairly determined impact.
the commission should therefore, by 2015, review and report to the european parliament and the council on its findings on an assessment of the reduction rate needed in line with the union's long-term climate objectives and the implications for the development of cost-effective co2 reduction technologies for light commercial vehicles.
when drawing up such proposals, the commission should ensure that they are as neutral as possible from a competitive point of view and that they are socially fair and sustainable.
madam president, in the european union we agreed to have a european policy to combat climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
that is why tomorrow i will be supporting the regulation we are debating today, which has reached an acceptable compromise on the limits for these greenhouse gases emitted by light commercial vehicles.
i therefore believe that both the council and the european commission and the european parliament must act to achieve this reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from motor vehicles globally.
if we fail to achieve this global target, then we will not only see an increase in global greenhouse gas emissions, but we will also negatively affect the competitiveness of the european automotive industry, which supports millions of jobs in europe.
mr president, i welcome your return and wish you well, commissioner, in the transition to a low-carbon economy, carbon capture and storage technology could be one of the main ways of reconciling the growing demand for fossil fuels with the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i regret that the majority of the eur 1 billion made available to pilot carbon capture and storage projects in 2009 through the european economic recovery programme has remained unspent and, despite considerable effort and substantial support from the european union, union demonstration projects for commercial-scale carbon capture and storage are experiencing delays.
i believe that any policy and strategy on carbon capture and storage should only be based on solid evidence of the positive impact of this technology on the environment, on the stability of union industry, on jobs in the union, and on affordable energy prices for both the public and industry.
we call on the commission and the member states to take far-reaching action to stimulate international cooperation and promote the use of climate change mitigation technologies to reorient the burgeoning economies towards a low-carbon development alternative.
however, we would point out that carbon capture and storage technologies pose significant environmental risks to both people and agriculture.
the connecting europe facility is one of the programmes that are aimed at attracting private investment for our energy, telecommunications and transport infrastructures.
i also wish to salute the agreement with parliament on notification of investment projects in energy infrastructure, which will help provide an overview of infrastructure development, thus helping to build up and fine-tune the eu’s energy policy.
policies that will ensure long-term sustainable growth and stability have been concluded and consolidated.
i believe that this can be done by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns and, not least, by taking common decisions in the european union.
− the report on 'smart specialisation: creating a network of centres of excellence for an effective cohesion policy' is unequivocal in its call for a sustainable improvement in the eu's innovation potential, which is essential in a period of economic recession and inevitable budgetary constraints, as well as increasingly fierce global competition.
− the shift to ultra-low-carbon cars is indispensable if europe is to achieve its long-term climate goals.
road transport is currently the second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions in the european union, generating about one fifth of the eu's total co2 emissions.
moreover, road transport is one of the few sectors where emissions have increased rapidly.
that is why i voted today in the european parliament plenary to set new performance standards for new light commercial vehicles and an ambitious co2 emissions reduction target for new light commercial vehicles.
the text adopted also addresses the shortcomings of the current environmental performance test protocol and provides for its replacement as soon as possible by the new un-defined international light vehicle test procedure (wltp).
− i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 510/2011 to define the modalities for achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles.
given the link between co2 emissions and fuel consumption, defining ways to reduce co2 emissions from light commercial vehicles could also help to reduce fuel consumption and related costs for owners of such vehicles in a cost-effective manner.
the objective of this regulation, namely to define ways of achieving the 2020 target for reducing co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles, can be better achieved at union level.
− i believe that the consumer programme 2014-2020 should ensure a high level of consumer protection and fully support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy, integrating its specific concerns on the digital agenda for europe, to ensure that digitalisation actually leads to higher consumer welfare, sustainable growth, through the shift to more sustainable consumption patterns, social inclusion, by taking into account the specific situation of vulnerable consumers and the needs of the ageing population, and smart regulation, by monitoring the consumer market to develop smart and timely regulation.
the programme would also support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring a higher level of consumer welfare, by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns and by taking into account the specific situation of vulnerable consumers and the needs of the ageing population.
− i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on a consumer protection programme for 2014-2020. the regulation establishes a multiannual programme on consumer protection for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020. the general objective of the programme is to ensure a high level of consumer protection, to empower consumers and to enable them to be asserted as a central element of the internal market within an overall strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
− i believe that member states and the commission need to take far-reaching measures to stimulate international cooperation and promote the use of climate change mitigation technologies to steer expanding economies towards lower-carbon development alternatives, including, for example, cscs.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2013 implementation report: the development and use of carbon capture and storage technology in europe.
carbon capture and storage (ccs) is a promising technology that could be the only means to significantly reduce co2 emissions from industrial sources and has the potential to significantly reduce co2 emissions from fossil fuel power plants.
this requires investment and industrial-scale demonstration to promote innovation, reduce costs and promote environmental safety.
we invite the commission to encourage the implementation of csr not only in relation to coal and gas-based energy production but also in a number of industrial sectors such as the chemical plant sector, metallurgy, iron and steel, cement and refining.
in addition, the economic crisis is leading to cuts in national healthcare budgets, which implies the need to find solutions to increase the effectiveness of health systems and ensure their sustainability.
in order to ensure sustainable and effective social protection, member states should develop and implement national strategies for the development of social security.
they should not be considered as expenditure but rather as an investment that fosters better performance and sustainable economic growth.
the report focuses on important questions such as: sustainable and adequate social protection for all, based on the principles of universal access and non-discrimination and decent income scheme.
i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on social protection for all, including self-employed workers, because i believe it is an essential pillar of sustainable inclusive growth and poverty reduction.
i believe that member states should ensure the responsible and sustainable long-term financing of social security systems, especially in times of economic crisis, and develop a preventive component of social security systems and put more emphasis on activation measures, bearing in mind that one of the most important factors of social investments is that they allow reconciliation of social and economic objectives and can contribute to the long-term maintenance and development of the economy.
− in the current economic climate, a coherent approach to cohesion policy is needed to reduce pressure on national, regional and local budgets as quickly as possible.
− i voted for this report because of its particular importance for cohesion policies, as disparities between eu regions continue to exist and in some cases are increasing, and because the ongoing investment made from eu funding at local and regional level is extremely important to ensure that areas needing economic, social and environmental recovery receive uninterrupted support.
− as shadow rapporteur, i welcome the adoption of this resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste, which can make an important contribution to the review of waste legislation to be completed this year.
plastic has certain intrinsic characteristics that can create problems from a waste management point of view.
that's why i think it's become imperative that, both at the european level and at the national level, we better manage how plastic is interfering with our environment and our health.
i recall that the environment is one of the four policy areas most prone to breaches of legislation and i believe that the application of the rules already adopted in the field of waste will undoubtedly also contribute to much better recycling and recovery of plastic waste.
there are disparities between member states in the way they manage plastic waste, which is why i have advocated a cautious approach in setting binding targets or targets if we want the targets we set to be achievable.
once in the environment, especially in the marine environment, plastic waste can persist for hundreds of years.
up to 10 million tons of waste, mostly plastic, ends up in the world's seas and oceans every year, turning them into the largest landfill of plastic waste on the planet.
half of the plastic waste generated in europe ends up in landfills, which should be avoided, as plastics can contain hazardous elements and dumping can generate unwanted emissions and concentrated and polluting residues.
− i believe that energy recovery of plastic waste should only be used when all other possibilities have been exhausted and provided that technologies with appropriate purifiers are used to avoid damage to the environment and human health.
− i welcome the european parliament's resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment.
i believe that a coherent approach to the issue of plastic waste is needed in european legislation and that we need adequate funding for waste recycling infrastructure as an alternative to landfilling and incineration.
i also believe that member states and the european commission need to develop and implement appropriate measures to combat illegal dumping and exports of plastic waste, including monitoring programmes and inspections in ports and waste treatment plants.
it is also useful to harmonise the criteria for the collection, sorting and general management of waste across the union.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on the european strategy on plastic waste in the environment.
full implementation of eu waste legislation could save €72 billion a year, increase the annual turnover of the eu waste management and recycling sector by €42 billion and create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. we call for more public and private investment in research and technology to achieve more sustainable plastics (e.g.
we argue that horizon 2020 could provide opportunities to address this important societal need and that the benefits would be significant for both the environment and citizens, from the creation of new economic activities to the reduction of marine litter and health risks.
it is very important that good governance and sustainable forms of territorial governance are reflected in the member states' rural development programmes for the period 2014-2020. i support the idea that rural development programmes should be multisectoral, while maintaining the centrality of agricultural activity, and i welcome the invitation to the european commission to support member states' efforts to recognise and promote new forms of cooperation for rural areas, around the brand of excellence, using the instruments included in the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap).
initiatives such as the eden (european destinations of excellence) network promote competitiveness, help develop sustainable and high-quality tourism at regional level and contribute to the involvement of local institutions, the establishment of partnerships and the diversification of the actors involved in the creation of the regional quality brand.
as shadow rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy, i especially welcome the debate on the award of concession contracts.
public procurement policy plays a key role in the efficient use of public funds, contributing to the achievement of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
the updating of the rules aims at simplifying them, making them more efficient and user-friendly, and at establishing rigorous procedures based on award criteria that also take into account innovation and sustainability.
i think it is a real step forward to have, with the best of intentions, legally secured and encouraged the choice of public authorities for more innovative, more social or more ecological solutions.
the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: this will increase the efficiency of public spending and guarantee the best value for money and sustainable development.
the choice of the most economically advantageous offer as opposed to the cheapest one and the possibility of taking into account social and environmental criteria constitutes a necessary change of approach in this respect.
it is important to have consumer protection in mind, but the same emphasis should be placed on encouraging and supporting beekeepers, given that the beekeeping sector provides the main or additional income for more than 600 000 citizens in the european union, provides vital services for agriculture through pollination, contributes to the maintenance of biodiversity, and beekeeping is part of the european agricultural heritage and national traditions.
you are right, commissioner, industrial development is not just a matter of balancing energy policy and climate change with the requirements of industrial competitiveness, a problem highlighted by many industrial companies.
this industrial policy must be aligned with the union's objectives on employment, innovation, increased energy efficiency and reduced emissions.
i consider it important that the union produces the products and materials needed to achieve the energy efficiency and renewable energy targets, thus reducing imports from third countries.
i come from a city based on the steel industry and therefore i stress the very important role of energy-intensive industries that produce essential basic materials and draw attention to the fact that these industries are at risk of carbon leakage and that therefore special precautionary measures are needed to maintain their competitiveness.
madam president, commissioner, the competitiveness of european industry is facing unprecedented problems, primarily due to internal factors such as limited investment in research and innovation, difficult access to finance, red tape and high energy prices.
however, industry remains a major driver of economic growth, innovation and sustainability, but europe needs strong policies and adequate financial resources to support a new 'industrial revolution' in the eu, based on new technologies (nanotechnologies, biotechnologies, microelectronics) and to avoid widening the gap between the union and the other peaks (the united states, the brics countries).
as such, i support the rapporteur's view that there is a need to ensure support from future cohesion policy and the european structural and investment funds for the reindustrialisation of the union and its regions through a truly modern industrial policy, for industrial innovation to launch a response to the challenges of sustainable energy sources, climate change and the efficient use of both material and human resources, by promoting lifelong learning to adapt to the permanent challenges.
i voted to amend the powers of the itre commission to include: 1. the union's industrial policy and related measures, as well as the application of new technologies, small and medium-sized enterprises; 2. the union's research and innovation policy, including science and technology, and the dissemination and exploitation of research results; 3. the european space policy; 4. the activities of the joint research centre, the european research council, the ieit and the institute for reference materials and measurements, as well as jet, iter and other projects in the same field; 5. measures at union level in the field of energy policy and the establishment and functioning of the internal energy market, the security of energy supply in the union, the promotion of energy efficiency and energy saving, the development of new and renewable energy sources, the promotion of energy network interconnection and energy efficiency, the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the energy infrastructure sector; 6. the euratom treaty and the euratom supply agency (eaa); nuclear safety, decommissioning and disposal of nuclear waste; 7. the information society, information technology and communications networks and services, including secure technologies, the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the area of telecommunications infrastructure, and the activities of enisa.
moreover, the eu needs to step up its cooperation with asean states in the area of exchanges of good practice, not only on economic issues, but also on environmental policy, the defence of fundamental rights, the protection of freedom of expression and the protection of the rule of law and security.
we voted for this report which shows the concern of the european legislator to strengthen cooperation between the two markets, especially as asean's purchasing power and the size of its economy are already comparable to those of china and the political environment of asean is developing.
i believe that there is a need for a progressive opening up of international public procurement markets on the basis of a commonly accepted system of rules, based on reciprocity, fairness and compliance with international social, environmental and labour standards.
the aim is to encourage fair competition and to allow for better value for money, with a focus on environmental and social considerations and innovation, which is a very positive development.
the introduction of a new criterion of 'most economically advantageous tender' in the award procedure will allow public authorities to place greater emphasis on quality, environmental and social aspects while taking into account the price and life cycle costs of the tender.
− i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, which adopts the european parliament's position at first reading.
in order to guarantee the opening to competition of procurement by entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors, provisions should be laid down to coordinate procurement procedures for contracts exceeding a certain value.
following the opening of accession negotiations in 2013, serbia should continue reforms in priority areas such as the rule of law, in particular judicial reform and anti-corruption policy, the independence of state institutions, media freedom, anti-discrimination policy, protection of minorities and the business environment.
also, the talks on the 'environment' chapter, which opened in december 2012, did not look very easy at first.
we have pledged our firm support to the mediation by igad (the intergovernmental authority on development) to achieve an immediate ceasefire and lay the groundwork for a broad-based, sustainable and democratic political solution.
the review of eu-mexico trade relations should include both additional liberalisation and a mandatory clause to support sustainable development, with increased attention to human rights.
europe has the capacity to innovate and the know-how to develop high-performing industry, but it faces problems with production costs, especially those related to resources and energy.
the european union needs a competitive industry characterised by innovation, energy efficiency and sustainability, and an appropriate legislative framework to support the continued growth of the industry.
it provides jobs, goods and services, as well as tax revenues, and is a key player in europe's transition to a low-carbon economy.
− i believe that at european level the commission must honour its commitment to develop indicators to monitor and evaluate the reindustrialisation process, and these indicators must be not only quantitative but also qualitative, to ensure that this process is sustainable and compatible with environmental protection.
the potential is there, all that is needed is a coherent strategy to support competitiveness while ensuring the sustainability of the european economy.
the main objectives of this report should be to advocate a renaissance in industry, and innovation in the field, for a sustainable eu.
industrial policy must therefore find the right mix of strategies that combine competitiveness and sustainability in order to improve the framework, recreate productive capacity and generate jobs.
− i voted in favour of the resolution on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability, as it is an important point of the european industrial strategy.
the consolidation of european industry needs to be based on technological and financial innovation, while the social and ecological market economy can be supported by commercial innovation, with small and medium-sized enterprises contributing to the digitalisation of the internal market.
− i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability.
i consider it particularly important that the 'industrial revival for a sustainable europe' (rise) strategy can revitalise industry and repatriate production to the eu, paying attention to supply chain management and taking into account specific local and regional production cultures and demand, while promoting important emerging sectors necessary for a sustainable economy and society.
they should promote the modernisation, sustainability and competitiveness of europe's industrial base through a value chain-aware policy that covers enterprises of all sizes, pays due attention to core industries and promotes the maintenance of the production chain in europe.
the report on reindustrialising europe to promote competitiveness and sustainability adopted today in the european parliament supplements the commission's view of the acute need to rebuild europe's industry, which until recently was characterised by performance and competitiveness.
we're talking about remote island areas with a small land area, difficult terrain and climate.
this derogation shall expire on 31 december 2013. the purpose of this measure is to compensate producers in the french overseas departments for the competitive disadvantages caused by remoteness, insularity, small area, difficult terrain and climate, economic dependence on a small number of products, in particular the value chain of rum from cane sugar, factors whose persistence and combination seriously impair their development.
we must continue to encourage serbia's progress, especially in strengthening the rule of law, minority rights, environmental protection, and not least the recognition of the central role of civil society organisations in strengthening democracy.
social dialogue and structural economic reforms are essential for serbia's participation in the single market; effective energy and environmental policies and institutional capacity building are objectives that serbia needs to introduce in the implementation of reforms in the next period.
we stress the crucial importance of regional cooperation and reconciliation, particularly with regard to energy issues and the development of transport and energy networks.
we stress the importance of the development of public transport, in particular with regard to the modernisation or creation of new rail links within a sustainable transport system.
mr president, while progress can be shown in many areas of better lawmaking and a reduction of regulatory and administrative burdens, which has always been a priority for the epp in the eu and the member states, a lot of work remains to be done: renegotiating the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking in order to take into account the new legislative environment created by the lisbon treaty and agreeing, inter alia, on common criteria with the other institutions on the application of delegated and implementing acts.
the future of the union must not only be based on a strong service sector but also on an eco-efficient and sustainable industry.
smart grids contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing the share of energy from renewable sources and ensuring security of supply for households.
i encourage regions and local authorities to invest in smart energy systems as a potential source of sustainable and green jobs at local level.
the construction industry is one of the main areas where jobs will be created both through direct investment in smart energy networks and by stimulating the development of technology in the european union, innovation and competitiveness of smes, through investment in energy efficiency measures and renovation, for example in the housing sector.
personal data collected in connection with the operation of smart energy systems are highly sensitive as they can be used to obtain information on consumer behaviour and therefore special protection of such data should be ensured.
the european energy sector is facing challenges such as the continuous increase in electricity demand, the need to liberalise the energy market, the deployment of storage technologies, and the adaptation of the trans-european electricity market to sustainable energy trends.
regions have the opportunity to invest in smart grids in order to reduce their energy costs and to achieve a two-way system for electricity generation and distribution.
the financial support to regional energy projects shall target investments in renewable technologies at household level.
smart energy systems can be put into practice through a strategy for regions and local communities, by allocating 20% of erdf support to investments for energy transition.
they have a production function but also contribute to the preservation of both the specific characteristics of the european countryside and the biodiversity of rural areas and provide the livelihoods of millions of people in europe.
reporting for opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy.
an excessively slow pace of modernisation has a negative impact on the availability of new offers to consumers and service providers, hampering the development of innovative services, in particular in the online environment.
citizens rightly feel that the lack of harmonised criminal sanctions creates an environment of immunity in which manipulators can thrive, taking advantage of a market without borders.
safe navigation is important from many points of view: the protection of human lives, the conservation of the environment and biodiversity or economic reasons.
the annual report indicates that there has been an increase in delays in transposing european legislation in recent years (1 185 in 2011, 855 in 2010, 531 in 2009) and that the areas where most non-compliance has been reported are the environment (17%), the internal market (15%), transport (15%) and taxation (12%).
the ultimate objective must remain to guarantee a climate of legal certainty for european citizens.
in view of ongoing technological progress, the five directives need to be reviewed periodically to ensure consistent legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety when dangerous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment.
pursuant to article 153 of the treaty, the european parliament and the council may adopt, by means of directives, minimum requirements to encourage improvements, in particular in the working environment, with a view to ensuring a higher level of protection of the health and safety of workers.
in view of continuing technological progress, those directives should be subject to periodic review in accordance with article 17a of council directive 89/391/eec in order to ensure consistency of legislation and an adequate level of protection of health and safety when dangerous chemical substances and mixtures are present in the working environment.
- i voted in favour of this report because the integrity of our financial markets is essential to restoring sustainable economic growth in europe.
- in the light of the eu's europe 2020 targets, increasing energy efficiency is essential.
i therefore consider that the proposal to inform the european commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union is a timely one, and that it contributes to the achievement of the objectives set.
these changes have the potential to respond to new energy challenges and to give the european commission the opportunity to come up with proposals to increase competitiveness in the energy sector.
for example, the connecting europe facility needs all this information in order to correctly identify investment needs or to coordinate and develop the field of energy infrastructure.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the european union and replacing regulation (eu, euratom) no 617/2010 adopting the european parliament's position at first reading.
the new energy context requires significant investment in all types of infrastructure, across all energy sectors, and in the development of new types of infrastructure and new technologies to be adopted by the market.
the liberalisation of the energy sector and the further integration of the internal market give economic operators a more prominent role in investment.
at the same time, new public policy requirements, such as fuel mix targets, will change member states' public policies towards new and/or upgraded energy infrastructure.
this regulation establishes a common framework for the notification to the commission of data and information relating to investment projects in energy infrastructure in the oil, natural gas, electricity, including electricity from renewable sources and energy from coal and lignite, and cogeneration of electricity and useful heat sectors, as well as investment projects in the production of biofuels and the capture, transport and storage of carbon dioxide generated by those sectors.
- welcomes the adoption in plenary of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the notification to the commission of investment projects in energy infrastructure in the eu; we voted for this new regulation as a further step towards strengthening the common energy market.
its main objective is to ensure that the commission is regularly and accurately informed about investment projects in eu energy infrastructure so that it can fulfil its energy tasks.
last but not least, the new regulation complements the connecting europe facility in identifying investment needs in energy infrastructure with a view to achieving the internal energy market.
greater consumer protection would support the growth and competitiveness ambitions of the europe 2020 strategy by ensuring a higher level of consumer welfare, by shifting to more sustainable consumption patterns, and by taking into account the specific situation of consumers.
the efficiency of the judicial system in civil, commercial and administrative matters plays a very important role in the functioning of the economy, the private environment and investment.
i voted in favour of the report because the union's energy security can also be ensured by innovative action in this area.
we need new production and consumption models to guarantee a stable and secure energy supply that is accessible to all citizens.
it is important to note that the renewable energy sector has coped with the current economic crisis without major problems and in some countries, such as romania, has developed considerably in recent years.
public investment in smart energy systems, including through the structural funds, represents major opportunities for my country.
- the european union needs a paradigm shift in both energy production and the structure of energy consumption by supporting the transition to sustainable energy.
the wider use of renewable energy in europe also implies the development of smart grids.
i believe that investment in information technology and in the research and development sector is necessary for the expansion of smart grids which in turn generate efficiency in energy production, distribution and consumption.
last but not least, i believe that the development of smart grids in this area will contribute in the long term to a decrease in the price of energy.
this type of grid is now a global priority, because it saves money by immediately detecting potential power leaks or failures, protects the grid against attacks and power outages, introduces alternative forms of electricity generation and thus significantly reduces co2 emissions.
- all european citizens, regardless of where they live, have the right to a stable and constant supply of energy at an affordable price.
in the context of increasingly important climate and socioeconomic changes, the european union has set itself the goal of increasing the share of energy from renewable sources, but to achieve this it needs to combine smart infrastructure and appropriate storage methods, which will allow stabilizing energy prices and benefiting, in particular, the poorer regions of the union.
such regions can reduce their dependency on conventional energy sources by encouraging the development of research and development, energy storage, energy consumption and energy saving.
i believe that openness and transparency between local authorities, businesses, industry, local communities and citizens can lead to results that benefit everyone, especially when smart infrastructure is centred on a smart energy system, as part of a smarter global regional plan, and also includes related sectors such as transport, housing and urban planning.
we invite the commission to propose ambitious 2030 targets, policies and objectives for energy efficiency and renewable energy, as well as for greenhouse gas emissions, in order to provide greater future certainty for investors and related sectors and to facilitate the introduction of a smart energy system.
i stress the importance of initiatives such as the covenant of mayors, the main european movement involving local and regional authorities in tackling climate change, which is based on a voluntary commitment by signatories to meet and exceed the eu's 20% co2 reduction target by increasing energy efficiency and developing renewable energy sources, and which support and sustain the efforts of local authorities in implementing sustainable energy policies.
measures are therefore needed to take account of the specific needs of small family farms and to allow for the sustainable development of rural areas, especially as in times of crisis the number of people returning to the countryside and starting to work in this profession is increasing.
creating sustainable prospects in rural areas, especially for young people, is decisive for the future of small farms.
we also ask for technical support for the submission of eu funding applications and for advisory services to help small farms to adapt the profile of their production activity to their ecological and production potential.
we believe that in order to establish an integrated parcel delivery market, it is important to have a stable and coherent social dimension, where delivery services must respect labour rights, working and remuneration conditions and social and environmental standards.
in addition to the symbolic dimension of the steel industry, we are talking about a key sector for the development of the automotive industry, the construction sector, the mechanical and electrical engineering sector and, last but not least, the renewable energy sector.
moreover, a coherent policy of developing industrial production would have the capacity to generate a considerable number of jobs, but also sustainable economic growth.
they also consider that coordination with environmental and energy policies is vital to avoid creating a difficult or uncompetitive business environment in the domestic or global market.
- the european steel industry is suffering from the simultaneous effects of low demand and global overcapacity, while facing high energy prices and investment needs to adapt to a green economy by producing innovative products in a sustainable way.
- promoting a stronger european steel industry will enable the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, for which i believe that r&d and innovation are very important elements that allow companies to develop production methods that use fewer resources and do not undermine the competitiveness of european companies and also stimulate job creation.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe, the steel industry is of strategic importance for a significant number of european economic sectors and for the process of european integration.
with a view to the recovery of the internal steel market, i support the proposals for measures presented by the rapporteur, such as the supply of safe and sustainable energy at affordable prices, the development of legal markets for steel products and waste to reduce emissions and the consumption of energy and raw materials.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable steel industry in europe.
they argue that the european union must promote a policy of industrial production development in all member states, in order to secure jobs in the union and to ensure an increase from the current level of 15.2% of gdp to a level of at least 20% by 2020. we support the commission's commitment to step up efforts to reduce energy prices and to reduce the gap between the eu industry and its main competitors, taking into account member states' strategies and allowing them to respect their specific national requirements.
i stress that the issue of carbon leakage should be addressed more concretely and in detail by the commission and that the 2030 climate and energy policy targets should be technically and economically feasible for eu industries and that the best performing companies should not be burdened with additional direct or indirect costs as a result of climate policies.
- i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable european steel industry.
i welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr andrás gyürk, to draw up this document, which contains concrete proposals to support a competitive and sustainable european steel industry and complements the european commission's action plan for the steel industry.
european industry needs to be supported, especially as it is currently in a difficult economic environment.
i would also like to welcome the inclusion in the report of the possibility, provided for by the world trade organisation, of tightening up trade defence rules if the social and environmental standards of a third country are too low.
renewable energy must and will play a central role in 2050, reducing europe's dependence on fossil fuels, which continue to impact the bills of european citizens in a significant way year after year.
to ensure a high standard of living for future generations, the european union's sustainable energy policies must be built on four pillars: availability, affordability, reasonable costs, environmental impact management, and a balance between economic growth, environmental protection and social responsibility.
i support the rapporteur's position on the role and importance of european regional policy in promoting renewable energy production and energy efficiency across europe, but we must not forget that, for the safety of our companies and investors, the union needs to support the market through funding, policies and strategies on the efficient use of resources.
clarity in these areas will provide certainty for investors and stimulate innovation and demand for low-carbon technologies, thus supporting progress towards building a more competitive, sustainable and energy-secure european economy.
the annual financial contribution by the union to gabon is fair and the quotas imposed ensure a balance between economic and environmental and marine conservation aspects.
it should be underlined that the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and gabon will promote, in the medium term, the sustainable exploitation by gabon of its own fisheries resources both for domestic consumption, in line with the needs of the population, and for export, which increases the added value of fishing activities.
however, i would like to point out that it was not just greenland's potential energy resources that made this decision.
the increasingly significant impact of climate change on human activity and the environment, maritime transport, natural resources, including raw materials, as well as on education, research and innovation, requires enhanced dialogue and cooperation.
the government of greenland should draw up and submit a programming document for the sustainable development of greenland.
we believe that further research could lead to a detailed framework of the different situations concerning the understanding and prevention of environmental risks and to a reduction of uncertainty in this area.
the revision of this regulation will allow the eu to impose higher customs duties on countries exporting subsidised or dumped products to the eu when these countries do not comply with the basic conventions or basic environmental standards set by the international labour organisation (ilo).
furthermore, the commission will have to choose the most cost-effective option and respect the sustainable development pillars in the process of adopting delegated acts.
measurement operations that meet considerations of public interest, public health, public order and safety, environmental and consumer protection, the collection of taxes and duties and the fairness of commercial transactions, which directly and indirectly affect the daily lives of citizens in many ways, may require the use of legally verified measurement instruments.
moscow disagrees and has taken care to convey the message through diplomatic pressure, embargoes and other forms of economic blackmail (such as raising the price of exported energy).
i would like to emphasise that the stated objective of naiades ii is to create the conditions for inland waterway transport to become a high-quality, well-managed, efficient, safe, integrated in the intermodal chain, with high-quality jobs, occupied by skilled workers and with high environmental standards.
they also advocate that the transport and environmental aspects of the european union strategy for the danube region be integrated into the future european union strategy for inland waterways.
- i voted against the report because the transition to a low-carbon economy must be gradual and without shocks to the economies of the member states, especially in the context of the crisis.
it is clear that in the long term the union will have to move to a low carbon economy, but not at any cost and at the expense of economic recovery in europe.
whether we are talking about nuclear energy, unconventional hydrocarbons or wind and solar energy, we must find a balanced energy mix that allows the development of states with the least possible impact on the environment.
for example, romania has made efforts in recent years to diversify its energy supply sources, moving towards both conventional and unconventional and renewable sources.
- the 2030 framework for climate and energy policies must pay particular attention to the objectives of progress towards a competitive economy that uses fewer resources and can create new opportunities for quality jobs.
active labour market policies should have clear objectives, respond to the needs of workers and the labour market, and avoid a shortage of skilled labour in new sustainable technologies and ensure access to quality jobs in the green economy for young people, women and disadvantaged groups.
research on more sustainable resource extraction and innovative technologies should be encouraged to better protect the environment and improve working conditions for workers in the sector.
the commission and the member states should promote more sustainable solutions for resource extraction.
- because energy efficiency is not yet a genuine global policy priority, studies suggest that we risk two thirds of the world's energy potential being untapped by 2035, with population and economic growth driving demand for energy to rise by more than 40% by 2030. already 95% of global warming is due to human activities, and climate change is increasing from year to year.
european investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy and smart infrastructure would stimulate the fight against the negative effects of global warming and help reverse the upward trend in energy prices.
that is why i support this report, which sets out an ambitious framework for action from significantly reducing energy consumption to completing the internal energy market.
this is a key condition for the eu's overall energy security, based on sustainable and renewable energy sources within the eu, as europe is a continent limited in resources and dependent on imports, which account for 60% of natural gas, 80% of oil and 50% of coal used for energy production at eu level.
- i abstained on the vote on amendment 27. i believe that the european union and, by implication, romania need a greater degree of energy independence and responsible exploitation of available resources.
we want cheap energy, but safety has to come first.
- i voted for the resolution on a 2030 framework for climate and energy policies.
increasing energy efficiency should be considered as one of the main components of the eu's climate and energy policy.
energy efficiency contributes to conserving resources, reducing energy bills, dependence on imported fuels, trade deficits, improving the long-term competitiveness of the eu economy, and facilitating the reduction of eu greenhouse gas emissions.
we call on member states to swiftly implement the energy efficiency directive and the energy performance of buildings directive.
the potential of each economic sector and each economic situation must be taken into account when designing new energy efficiency policies.
we call on the commission and the member states to set a binding eu target for 2030 of reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990 levels.
measures to improve energy efficiency should focus on the energy supply and demand side as a whole, including transformation, transmission, distribution and supply, as well as on industrial consumption, consumption in buildings, including consumption by households, and transport.
- i voted for the european parliament's decision not to oppose the draft regulation amending regulation no 1031/2010 in particular to determine the volumes of greenhouse gas emission allowances to be auctioned during the period 2013-2020. directive 2003/87/ec provides that the timing, management and other aspects of auctions are to be established in such a way that they are open, transparent, harmonised and non-discriminatory.
the commission should also monitor the functioning of the european carbon market.
over the years, the eu and russia have developed deep and extensive relations, not only in the fields of energy, economy and trade, but also in external security, the movement of people and culture (the so-called 'four common spaces').
i consider energy cooperation to be of particular importance to both sides as it represents an opportunity to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking full account of the eu's need to diversify transport channels and energy suppliers.
we call for eu-russia energy cooperation to be based on the principles of the internal market, including the third energy package, in particular on third party access, and the energy charter treaty.
- to continue the process of european integration in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, it is necessary to create a positive environment to smooth out the current differences with regard to the european values platform and principles.
we invite greece to use its presidency of the european union to boost the country's european integration process, thereby reaffirming its commitment to the thessaloniki agenda of 2003 and creating a positive environment for the resolution of bilateral differences in the spirit of european values and principles.
we welcome the commission's initiative to update and renew the naiades programme by 2020 and support the specific actions defined in the naiades ii action programme for 2014-2020. i stress the importance of ensuring adequate funding for new technologies, innovation and sustainable transport services within existing eu programmes such as the connecting europe facility, horizon 2020 and the cohesion fund to stimulate the use of innovation outputs and improve the environmental performance of inland waterway transport, and i ask the commission to develop concrete funding programmes to achieve this.
the agreement amending regulation 443 of 2009 sets the target of 95 grams of carbon dioxide per km as from 2020 as the average of the emissions for the fleet of new passenger cars registered in the european union.
increasing the efficiency and sustainability of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles will reduce the union's dependence on oil imports.
the beneficiaries of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from cars will be both consumers and the environment.
however, the lack of an alternative fuels infrastructure and of common technical specifications for the vehicle-infrastructure interface could be an obstacle to the marketing of very low carbon vehicles.
therefore, it is also important to provide the necessary infrastructure that would facilitate access to energy efficient vehicles.
this will mean lower fuel costs for drivers, less localised atmospheric pollution, and lower greenhouse gas emissions.
i particularly welcome the provision to revise and update the test methods to ensure a more accurate measurement of co2 emissions from cars and to prevent manipulation of emission readings.
a key shift in economic strategy must therefore be fiscal consolidation based on socially sustainable and balanced growth, to the detriment of austerity-based policies.
- i voted in favour of the new regulations which aim to reduce co2 emissions from new cars to 95g/km.
i welcome the gradual introduction of the mandatory 95g/km target to 95% of new cars and to a single year: 2020. i believe that these new provisions will encourage the certification and introduction of technologies or technology packages (green innovations) that further reduce the associated co2 emissions, the 95g target representing a saving of 15 million tonnes of co2 emissions per year, and that also contribute to reducing fuel consumption, for the benefit of the consumer.
i am convinced that improving the efficiency of cars means a more efficient use of resources in europe, and therefore a step towards sustainable growth.
- i voted in favour of the report because road transport is a sector in which greenhouse gas emissions are increasing rapidly.
the union has a duty to strengthen and maintain its international leadership in the fight against climate change.
- improving the efficiency of cars is part of the europe 2020 resource efficiency agenda, which will ensure the shift to a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy for sustainable growth.
in addition, by improving the efficiency and sustainability of new passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, the union's dependence on oil will be reduced.
- i voted for the proposal for a regulation on the reduction of co2 emissions from new cars.
it supports the shift towards a resource-efficient and low-carbon economy with a view to achieving sustainable growth.
from 2020, this regulation sets a target of 95g co2/km as the average of the emissions for the new passenger car fleet registered in the union.
it is important that this regulation is as neutral as possible from a competitive point of view, socially fair and sustainable.
by 31 december 2015, the commission shall review the specific emissions targets and modalities set, as well as other aspects of this regulation, including whether the utility parameter is still necessary and whether the most reliable utility parameter is mass or footprint, with a view to setting the co2 emissions targets for new passenger cars for the period after 2020.
in writing.
this acquis on trade marks has not been substantially amended, while the business environment has evolved significantly.
in addition, the inclusion of provisions on combating food waste, by implication by encouraging donations, is more than welcome.
in order to increase and diversify the supply of food to the most deprived persons and to reduce and prevent food waste, the fund may support activities related to the collection, transport, storage and distribution of food donations.
- i voted in favour of this report because the new rules on biocidal products will have a significant impact in terms of enhancing the protection of human health and the environment.
these products are necessary for the control of organisms harmful to human or animal health or causing material damage, but their properties may present risk factors for humans, animals or the environment.
regulation (eu) no 528/2012, adopted by the parliament and the council on 22 may 2012, represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation regulating biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
the biocidal products regulation has represented a significant and substantial revision of the existing legislation regulating biocidal products by harmonising the rules on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, while ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment.
and the member states, as well as the union, need effective guidance on financial recovery and sustainable growth.
we stress that structural reforms must be complemented by longer-term investments in education, research, innovation and sustainable energy.
we also believe that public-private partnerships can also be considered as instruments to promote investment and create smart and sustainable growth to complement public investment programmes.
i recognise the need for plants to adapt to the new natural conditions brought about by climate change, and therefore the european union must allocate significant financial resources to research and innovation, as well as to the preservation of the eu's genetic resources.
the plant sector is essential for the productivity, diversity, health and quality of agriculture, horticulture, food and feed production and the environment.
in order to meet future challenges such as food needs and climate change, it is of the utmost importance that we have an effective and competitive plant breeding sector.
this program doesn't necessarily mean spending more, but it does mean spending efficiently, in favor of developing sustainable health systems.
austerity measures have put a great deal of pressure on health systems in the european union, creating inequalities and threatening the sustainability of these systems in the future.
- trans-european telecommunications networks and services play a key role in increasing economic competitiveness and ensuring the sustainable development of the european union.
priorities such as high-speed networks, cross-border public service provision and smart energy services are areas where local and regional authorities play a key role, acting both as providers and beneficiaries.
in addition, some services, such as trans-european high-speed bus connections for public administrations and ict solutions for smart energy networks, were not included in the annex to this proposal, also for budgetary reasons.
in the current economic climate, this balance is crucial to ensure that young people - particularly in the poorer member states - choose not to migrate for reasons of security.
and the quality of national reform programmes will determine economic sustainability, which is why country-specific recommendations must be taken very seriously.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2014. the commission has identified services, financial services, transport, energy and the digital market as key areas for improving the functioning and deepening of the single market.
an accessible and efficient european transport structure, an ambitious european industry and the creation of a single energy market that supports the competitiveness of european businesses and guarantees universal access to affordable energy for households and consumers are also vital for the eu's single market.
most of the less developed regions, including those in romania, face problems such as poor or non-existent infrastructure, especially in the field of transport or energy efficiency.
increasing investment in the entrepreneurial environment, support for the creation of new businesses and self-employment are vital levers for the development of smes.
the new cohesion policy framework underlines the need to concentrate investment at regional and local level on a limited number of areas considered to be the most important, such as job creation, smes, employment (especially among young people), labour mobility, training and education, research and innovation, ict, sustainable transport and congestion reduction, sustainable energy, the environment, promoting the institutional capacity of public authorities and efficient public administration, urban development and cities.
we believe that fiscal consolidation policies are insufficient to stimulate growth and promote investments that create quality and sustainable jobs.
these regions can provide a lever for economic development in high value-added sectors such as agri-food, biodiversity, renewable energy, astrophysics, aerospace, etc.
i welcome the new perspective in the relationship between the european union and its outermost regions, including the european commission's intention to implement policies that encourage sustainable job creation and economic growth in these regions.
- i voted in favour of the report on the optimal development of the outermost regions' potential by creating synergies between the structural funds and other european union programmes, as it aims to go beyond the current vision by proposing a completely new approach whereby investment policies in the outermost regions are opened up to new areas and foster the sustainable development of these territories.
i consider it particularly important to encourage long-term investment and to promote the innovation potential of the outermost regions in order to strengthen their economic and social potential in a sustainable way and to increase the chances of success of the various union strategies.
we call for investments through services of general economic interest in ict, transport, water and energy to become a priority in these regions and support a more coherent framework for state aid to the ors to achieve the europe 2020 objectives.
we believe that the ors have the potential to be at the forefront of research and technology in the areas covered by the objectives of horizon 2020, such as space, aerospace, biotechnology, natural risk monitoring, marine research, biodiversity, renewable energy, health, climate change adaptation and smart transport.
it paves the way for new initiatives to achieve common objectives and establish a common basis in areas such as regional integration, poverty reduction and social cohesion, sustainable development, regional security and stability, conflict prevention and resolution, human rights, democracy, good governance, migration and the fight against corruption, terrorism, drugs, small arms and light weapons.
the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission enables the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
we call for better infrastructure and connectivity, as well as an improved regulatory framework, to be pursued through cooperation under the provisions of the acp on trade and investment, taxation and customs, economic policy dialogue, environment, industrial policy and smes, and transport.
we urge the eu and indonesia to use apcs in order to achieve long-term geostrategic benefits in addressing global security challenges in bilateral, regional and global multilateral fora, such as addressing climate change and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating terrorism, corruption, organised crime, drug trafficking, money laundering and terrorist financing, cooperation in data protection, as well as continuing cooperation in other areas not explicitly covered by apcs.
the potential of rail infrastructure in the internal market is huge and at the same time a determining factor of sustainable growth.
in the same way, the increase in the number of rail passengers can make a positive contribution to european policies to reduce the impact on the environment and combat climate change.
rail transport plays an important role in terms of both social, environmental and mobility planning and can significantly increase its overall share of european passenger transport.
the elimination of these can improve rail transport services and will make it possible to achieve european environmental policy also through the rail transport lever.
competitiveness will lead to lower prices, smoother road traffic and a lower environmental impact.
promoting good mental and physical health at eu level is an integral part of europe 2020: a european strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
- the health for growth programme, with an overall financial allocation of eur 446 million for the period 2014-2020, is part of the europe 2020 strategy and aims to encourage innovation and sustainability in healthcare.
we need to think about measures to ensure sustainable economic development, and two important areas in this regard are infrastructure and research and development.
- i voted in favour of this report because europe is facing the need for large-scale, long-term investment that is essential in supporting sustainable economic growth.
this is spending that strengthens the productive capacity of the economy, and it includes energy, transport and communications infrastructure, education, research and many other areas.
it is important that long-term investment is in line with the needs of the real economy, so as to provide the necessary basis for the sustainability of european growth.
only in this way can we create a favourable environment for the sustainable development of the european union's economy.
- the european union has taken a leading position in relation to the objectives of protecting the environment and combating climate change through its policies and its programming documents.
the european union can act at this level both by promoting good practice in this field and by establishing measures to ensure that the involvement of european economic actors in the extractive industries of developing countries can produce welfare while protecting the environment.
but in the rush to raise funds, basic environmental standards are being overlooked.
while this global demand for minerals and other natural resources presents a unique opportunity for the extractive sector to contribute to sustainable development, it also presents significant challenges for developing countries.
a comprehensive strategy is therefore needed to address the root causes of mineral conflicts and to manage mining in the best possible way to limit deforestation, soil depletion, air pollution and global warming.
the mining sector has the capacity to contribute to economic development, but it can have negative consequences on the environment and lead to major conflicts if not regulated.
whether it is the environment or human rights, we have a duty to export european values to the world.
and environmental protection must be a concern both in the union and in other countries, because ultimately the effects will be felt on us too.
- the debate about climate change often focuses on emission reduction – this week we have voted on a co2 reduction from cars, and last part-session we voted on emission reduction targets for 2030. with all this focus on emission reduction at source, not enough attention is being paid to the importance of protecting natural carbon sinks.
providing both mitigation of climate change through co2 absorption, and adaptation by protecting against flooding, natural carbon sinks such as forests and wetlands are vitally important in the fight against climate change.
i very much welcome the progress which has been made in terms of protecting indonesia’s rainforest – the third largest in the world – and this evidence that our trade agreements can encourage environmental protection in third countries.
serious social and economic problems - widespread poverty, high unemployment, economic stagnation, environmental degradation and lack of basic public services - continue to affect a significant part of the population.
the current political climate in many countries is characterised by the rise of xenophobic rhetoric and mistrust of foreigners, whether they are nationals of third countries or even of countries of the european union.
this country makes a lot of money from trading timber with the european union, so we have a duty to make sure that logging is done in a legal and, above all, environmentally sustainable way.
- in the eu, 100 000 women work in the fishing sector, but their work is not recognised and generally remains invisible, despite the fact that it has considerable economic added value and despite the fact that it contributes to the social, economic and environmental sustainability of many european towns and regions, especially fisheries-dependent areas.
we call on the commission and the council to give legal and social recognition to the role of women in the fisheries and aquaculture sector and in the sustainable development of fisheries-dependent areas, with a view to removing all economic, administrative and social barriers that impede their participation on equal terms.
requests to member states to recognise the professional status of women in cases of temporary interruption of work, including interruptions for biological reasons we call on the member states to take measures to develop and modernise local infrastructure, diversify economic activities and improve the quality of life in fishing areas, especially in areas that depend entirely on fishing, in order to ensure their sustainable development, combat poverty in general and that of women and children in particular, as well as violence against women and domestic violence.
we also call on the european investment bank to stimulate viable investment in debt instruments, which direct private capital to the necessary transport, energy and infrastructure projects in the field of communications and information technology.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam president, i would like to ask a question to my predecessor, who was talking about the lack of sustainable projects, as opposed to the criteria of the european investment bank.
however, i would like to ask a question, not only to my colleague but also to the european investment bank: what do you think of the nabucco project, which is becoming all the more sustainable and important for the european union, especially in the context of the crisis in ukraine?
in this difficult environment it is important that the eib assumes its role as a policy-driven bank, acts as a countercyclical institution and continues to provide financing to the real economy, especially in regions and sectors where funds are not available from other sources on reasonable terms.
i also believe that the eu should also support efforts to renew and retrain the inland waterway fleet, which would lead to more environmental benefits.
such a protocol on access to genetic resources and fair sharing of benefits is, in my view, a key instrument in the service of a new vision for biodiversity.
i say this because this enhanced cooperation will result in the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity and, by extension, the environment, thus contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals.
- the nagoya protocol is a particularly important agreement for the international governance of biodiversity, as it establishes an international regime to support one of the three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the fair and equitable distribution of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources to enable the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
this agreement is all the more important as it comes in the context of a global biodiversity crisis, which is tending to worsen, threatening the extinction of more and more species and putting considerable pressure on ecosystems.
the nagoya protocol can reverse this trend by mobilising the international resources needed to preserve biodiversity vital to our societies.
biodiversity is vital to humanity, and ecosystems are important because of the services they provide to citizens, no matter where they live.
as such, europe must be involved in order to mobilise all the necessary resources, at european and international level, mainly financial, to preserve biodiversity, and one means of achieving this is the implementation of the nagoya protocol.
in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in particular article 191 thereof, the european union is competent to conclude international agreements and to implement the obligations resulting therefrom, contributing to the achievement of the following objectives: the conservation, protection and improvement of the quality of the environment, the protection of human health, the prudent and rational use of natural resources, and the promotion at international level of measures to address regional or global environmental problems, and in particular to combat climate change.
farmers, small producers and consumers are concerned about the limitation of the free choice of cultivated varieties, the danger of the disappearance of some local varieties and threats to biodiversity.
we stress, however, that eu legislation on plant reproductive material must facilitate and encourage the maintenance of agricultural and horticultural biodiversity.
the eu guarantee shall be granted as a comprehensive guarantee for payments due to, but not received by, the eib in respect of loans, loan guarantees and capital market loan instruments granted or issued for the benefit of eib investment projects, which are granted or issued by the eib for the benefit of investment projects carried out in eligible countries in accordance with the eib's own rules and procedures, including the eib's statement of social and environmental principles and standards, and in support of the relevant union foreign policy objectives, where eib financing has been granted in accordance with a signed agreement which has neither expired nor been cancelled.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because the conservation of biological diversity must remain an important objective of the eu, especially in the context of the strategy we have undertaken and through which we aim to avoid the loss of biodiversity worldwide by 2020. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate change policy.
benefit-sharing needs to be considered, as biodiversity-rich developing countries dominate the provision of genetic resources, while the majority of users are in developed countries.
i believe that equitable access to benefit-sharing can contribute to poverty eradication and environmental conservation, thereby leading to progress towards the achievement of the millennium development goals, as recognised in the preamble to the nagoya protocol.
at the same time, we ensure that the european union maintains its leadership role in current and future international negotiations by promoting a progressive stance that can meet the challenges of conserving biodiversity and its sustainable use.
a number of technical standards and requirements relating to vehicle safety and environmental characteristics have been adopted in the union.
- the development of the european agri-environment policy within the framework of the common agricultural policy requires adequate information on agricultural production methods and relevant statistical data on the different agricultural production methods at the level of individual farms in the member states.
the loans complemented public and private investments in transport, telecommunications, energy or environmental infrastructure.
we call on the eib to continue to support the eu's long-term priorities on economic and social cohesion, growth and employment, environmental sustainability, climate action and resource efficiency by continuing to develop new financial and non-financial instruments to address both short-term market inefficiencies and longer-term structural gaps in the eu economy.
i hope that, despite the rejection of the report, member states will include a gender perspective in their cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 in order to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and at eu level this principle will be included in all union and member state policies, to allow for sustainable, equitable and inclusive equality conditions for men and women.
moreover, efforts by those involved in the sector to compete more effectively on the global market through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation, and trade enhancement measures, should be facilitated.
- i voted in favour of this report because the fertility of the soil, the diversity of the climate and the expertise of the growers are just some of romania's advantages in the field of horticulture.
we underline the importance of promoting the eu horticultural sector and facilitating its efforts to compete more effectively on the world market, through innovation, research and development, energy efficiency and security, climate change adaptation and mitigation, as well as through measures to improve marketing and continuing efforts to eliminate the existing imbalance between operators and suppliers.
the consequences: comfort for passengers, less fuel burned, less carbon dioxide emissions, lower costs, lower prices.
mr president, i would stress the importance of implementing the single european sky, as it will have a positive role in reducing delays, increasing safety and reducing aviation's impact on the environment.
the european air traffic management system needs this upgrade, and we should not waste time in implementing it.
fluoride gases are the most persistent human-made greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
emissions of these gases have increased by 60% since 1990, while emissions of other greenhouse gases have been gradually reduced.
in this regard, it is important to encourage the development of environmentally friendly and safe technologies and alternatives with a low environmental impact at union level, while, of course, discouraging the use of those fluorinated gases with a high environmental impact.
the agreement with the council is an important step in reducing greenhouse gas emissions by allowing equipment that already has less environmentally harmful substitutes to be banned from the market.
it is a balanced arrangement, which allows, on the one hand, the achievement of the union's environmental objectives and, on the other hand, allows the industry to come up with feasible solutions in this direction.
i believe that an appropriate approach is needed to this problem, since from an educational point of view the health and well-being of the population is closely conditioned by the type of diet and the environment, and therefore by the methods used in agriculture, fisheries and animal husbandry.
i hope that the improvements to the regulation will increase the level of protection of this data and at the same time create an environment conducive to the economic development of the european union.
at the same time, the country is a potential energy supplier to the member states.
unfortunately, armed conflict has a devastating impact on children's physical and mental development, with long-term consequences for human security and sustainable development.
i hope that if adopted, the directive will not create a climate of impunity for several categories of potential offenders and will not pose a risk to the security of the member states.
whether we are talking about higher pollution, higher ticket prices or even flight safety problems all are effects of improper implementation of initiatives in this area.
in order to avoid the expected increase in air traffic exacerbating or generating congestion in european airspace, with all the economic, environmental and safety costs that this entails, the fragmentation of that airspace should be ended and this regulation should also be implemented as soon as possible.
i support the idea that the implementation of the ses and the related reform of the european system must be accelerated, in order to help users cope with a fierce global competitive environment and to improve the overall efficiency of the way european airspace is organised and managed.
in addition, fair competition issues in the online environment are more difficult to monitor and implement.
i welcome this initiative and hope that both at the european union level and at the level of romania this directive will ensure a favourable environment for the development of european tourism.
- i voted in favour of this report because it deals with a matter of general interest, with repercussions both for us and, above all, for future generations: climate change.
emissions of fluorinated gases, which have a climate-warming effect up to 23,000 times greater than carbon dioxide, have increased by 60% since 1990, while all other greenhouse gases have decreased.
this will result in higher market shares for companies that take advantage of the opportunity and develop climate-friendly products and equipment.
- the montreal protocol has succeeded in mandating the worldwide phasing out or reduction of most ozone depleting substances, including chlorofluorocarbons and hydrofluorocarbons.
the substitution substances used, such as hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride, have however been shown to have a very large influence on climate and a global warming potential up to 23[nbsp ]000 times greater than that of carbon dioxide and can remain for thousands of years in the atmosphere.
the european union has called for greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced, but while all other greenhouse gases have been reduced, the eu's fluorinated gas emissions have increased by 60% since 1990. today's vote by the european parliament has given the green light to pass new legislation now to prevent emissions from rising in the coming decades.
i believe that phasing out hfcs will strengthen sustainable development, stimulate innovation and reward european companies that have invested in green technologies.
on the other hand, it will be beneficial to increase support for industrial research and innovation, in particular in terms of the design of technologies alternative to fluorinated greenhouse gases, and for the design of appropriate training programmes to train workers in alternative technologies to fluorinated greenhouse gases, but taking into account the specific situation of smes.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases.
the fourth assessment report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc), to which the union is a party, states that, on the basis of existing scientific evidence, developed countries should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels in order to limit global climate change to a 2 ̊c increase in temperature, thereby preventing undesirable effects on climate.
the aim of the adopted regulation is to protect the environment by reducing emissions of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
it (a) lays down rules on the containment, use, recovery and destruction of fluorinated greenhouse gases and related ancillary measures; (b) imposes conditions on the placing on the market of specific products and equipment containing or relying on fluorinated greenhouse gases; (c) imposes conditions on specific uses of fluorinated greenhouse gases; and (d) sets quantitative limits for the placing on the market of hydrofluorocarbons.
- i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe it will strike a very good balance between protecting the environment and stimulating economic growth in the european union.
the new provisions will remove a number of fears of public opinion and professional organisations when environmental impact assessments of projects are carried out.
- directive 2011/92/eu harmonised the principles for assessing the effects of projects on the environment by introducing minimum requirements and has contributed, in its 28 years of application, to ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health.
the review will enhance the quality of the environmental impact assessment procedure, simplify the various steps of the procedure, align the procedure with the principles of smart regulation and improve coherence and synergies with other union legislation and policies, as well as with strategies and policies developed by member states in areas of national competence.
the main objective is to ensure better implementation at member state level by simplifying burdensome administrative procedures that have generated additional delays and risks in environmental protection.
i consider that, in order to ensure harmonised application and equal protection of the environment throughout the union, the commission should ensure qualitative as well as procedural compliance with the provisions of directive 2011/92/eu, including those on public consultation and participation.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2011/92/eu on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment.
directive 2011/92/eu harmonised the principles for the assessment of the impact of projects on the environment by introducing minimum requirements as regards the type of projects assessed, the main obligations of project promoters, the content of the assessment and the participation of competent authorities and the public, and contributes to ensuring a high level of protection of the environment and human health.
i consider that, in order to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and human health, the environmental impact assessment and the prior verification procedures should take into account the impact of the whole project, including, where appropriate, the surface and underground phases and during the construction, operation and, where appropriate, demolition phases.
i support the need to review directive 2011/92/eu in a way that ensures improved environmental protection, increased resource efficiency and support for sustainable growth in the union.
the programme provides more complete information and enables informed decisions in the field of environment, climate, civil protection and security at national and community level.
- the european union must continue to pay particular attention to european space programmes, and the implementation of programmes such as galileo and copernicus will allow the union to maintain its leading position internationally, contributing to creating an environment conducive to the development of quality jobs at european level.
the eu should focus on youth and energy security and cooperate with its eastern partners on this issue.
we recommend the flexible use of the instruments available to the eu, such as macroeconomic assistance, facilitation of the exchange regime, projects to strengthen energy security and economic modernisation, and the rapid application of visa liberalisation, in line with european values and interests.
we underline that cooperation in the field of energy security is a priority within the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy.
we believe that further progress on the integration of the gas and electricity networks in the region, including reverse flows, is essential to achieving the energy community objectives.
projects such as south stream increase the eu's dependence on russian gas and therefore support the need for member states and the commission to accelerate projects that can help alleviate the eastern partnership countries' energy dependence on russia.
i also support the idea that maintaining information pluralism, promoting cultural and linguistic diversity and preserving the structural role of the public service media in the european media ecosystem are values of public interest.
- i voted in favour of the resolution because recent experience has shown that the arctic is generating increasing interest, particularly because of its potential energy resources.
i would stress that their exploitation must not be done without taking account of environmental considerations, even if the region is uninhabited.
the outcome of the negotiations is all the more encouraging as the european parliament has put forward a number of important measures to create a regulatory and institutional environment appropriate to the challenges facing the european union.
interoperability between radio equipment and accessories such as chargers simplifies the use of radio equipment and reduces waste and unnecessary costs.
asia has significant natural, energy and human resources to support the development of european business centres on its territory.
the recycling of ships is a very important process, given the pollution hazard it poses.
due to the large number of hazardous materials carried on board, any ship to be dismantled poses a potential risk to the environment.
- i voted in favour of this report, especially as i fully agree that once the economic and budgetary sustainability of the four countries is guaranteed, efforts must focus on social aspects, with particular attention to job creation.
member states should consider that future labour sector reforms take into account the principle of flexicurity and enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises and do not overlook other key reforms, such as those related to the cost of energy, social dumping, unfair competition, fair and efficient financial systems and tax policies that favour growth and employment.
- i voted in favour of the report because in recent years efforts have been made at union level to advance integration in areas relating to the area of freedom, security and justice, and police cooperation is essential to ensuring a climate of security and stability for our citizens.
we underline the importance of the european structural and investment funds, which, taken together, represent one of the largest expenditure headings in the eu budget; we also underline the need to invest in areas such as education and mobility, research and innovation, smes and entrepreneurship, in order to promote eu competitiveness and contribute to job creation especially among young people and people over 50. we support the importance of investments in renewable energy, the digital agenda, infrastructure, information and communication technologies, cross-border connectivity, and the wider use of 'innovative financial instruments', in particular in terms of long-term investments.
it is important to ensure secure energy resources for ukraine, independent of russia, to help ukraine to pay its debts to gazprom and to provide financial assistance to stabilise the country's economic and financial situation.
the existence of customary rules that often replace legal regulations creates a climate of legal uncertainty, especially for right-holders, and thus inhibits economic growth, because, for example, a farmer will only be incentivised to cultivate his land if it has legal stability and legal predictability.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of property rights, property regimes and wealth creation in eradicating poverty and promoting sustainable development in developing countries.
this is likely to lead to duplication of effort and waste of funds, especially in a context where they are limited.
i also think that we need to link assistance with our priority objectives, such as reducing carbon emissions.
we stress the need to improve the commission's impact assessment system by presenting the cpd explicitly and ensuring that development becomes the fourth central element of the analysis, alongside economic, social and environmental effects.
mr president, commissioner, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly.
climate action should be taken rapidly, as the global problems caused by aviation emissions can be most effectively managed through an international approach, including the obligation to comply with the same measures or to achieve the same objectives through different measures.
the itre and tran committees, on which i am a member, propose that the european union's stop-clock provisions be extended until the icao general assembly in 2016 in order to reach a genuine global agreement that is truly beneficial for the climate and the actors involved.
i consider that legal clarity and a level playing field are needed to promote union-wide services, efficiency and innovation in card-based payment instruments and card-based payment transactions in an offline, online or mobile environment.
member states need to invest in education, health, agriculture, transport, energy and communications infrastructure and in modernising and eco-efficiency of european industry.
this means that the eu should elaborate a new european security strategy; strengthen cooperation with nato, rapidly finding a solution to the existing blockage; seriously consider the possibility of invoking the mutual assistance clause in article 42 of the lisbon treaty by those members who are not in nato, if such members are the victims of armed aggression against their territory; revise its current stand on defence, proving in practice that defence really matters; rapidly initiate the strategic measures to reduce its energy dependency on russia, and prove that it is ready to accept losses in order to substantiate the seriousness of the message sent to russia.
the european strategy on security and common defence policy must address all the eu's vulnerabilities in the current global context from reducing energy dependence to tackling anti-european trends and worrying gaps between member states.
last but not least, i am pleased that climate change continues to occupy a particularly high place on the political agenda of the european union.
it is clear that without a global commitment, the achievement of carbon reduction targets is impossible.
as the world's leading donor, the eu supports both stepping up efforts to meet the 2015 deadline for the millennium development goals (mdgs) and a common approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development.
i support the recommendations to the council such as: • to promote the integration of human rights and fundamental freedoms into all aspects of un activity; • to call on the un general assembly members to make full transparency in corporate reporting and the fight against corruption, money laundering, tax havens, illicit financial flows and harmful tax structures a top priority on the agenda of international financial and development institutions; • ensure that poverty eradication remains a priority in the new single and integrated framework, alongside the fight against inequality and the promotion of sustainable development, food security and gender equality; • work towards a single, comprehensive and integrated framework for the post-2015 mdgs with clear benchmarks, including the key aspects of development and sustainability; • ensure that this framework is universal and global, promoting prosperity, human rights and well-being for all.
it is essential to target eu project-related funding from external aid towards broadcasting services that already comply with and act in accordance with the highest standards of independence, accuracy and journalistic balance and promote eu values, as well as towards projects that would enable broadcasting services that lag behind in terms of independence, accuracy and sustainability to achieve those standards.
studies show that in addition to the stress associated with noise pollution, it also has effects on the human body, possibly even contributing to high blood pressure or nervous system dysfunction.
noise pollution should not be a necessity in highly industrialized areas or a certification of a powerful machine, on the contrary.
- today's vote is a step forward in protecting public health and the environment through measures to reduce vehicle noise.
labelling and consumer information are important issues and therefore i consider it necessary and appropriate that the commission should consider an impact assessment on the labelling conditions applicable to noise and air pollution levels and the correct information of consumers.
given the increasing number of motor vehicles on european roads, i believe that a reduction in the limit value for noise pollution is needed.
the proposal aims to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles.
implement an impact assessment on the labelling conditions applicable to noise and air pollution levels and inform consumers: manufacturers will provide information on vehicle noise levels at the point of sale and in technical promotional material; ensure the protection of blind and other vulnerable persons by installing appropriate acoustic warning systems in electric vehicles.
we consider it important to recognise the right of small farmers and rural workers to a decent income and a safe and healthy working environment as a fundamental objective in granting trade preferences to developing countries and in particular to the least developed countries.
- identifying the links between the environment and the economy and measuring the impact of the economy on the environment became needs to which the european institutions responded promptly by adopting the regulation on environmental economic accounts in 2011, when the first three modules were introduced.
today we adopted three new modules on environmental protection expenditure, the environmental goods and services sector and the accounts for physical energy flows, which have the potential to contribute to the development of more comprehensive indicators, thus improving both the quality of european policy-making and public debate.
- i voted in favour of this report because i believe that over time environmental accounting, recently introduced to the european union agenda, will have a strong impact on analysis and forecasting.
the most important aspect i think is the one that relates to measuring the effects of economic activity on the environment, but also the contribution that the environment makes to the economy.
- i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a regulation on european environmental economic accounts.
the current pace of developments and uncertainties about likely future trends require further measures to ensure that union policies continue to be based on a sound understanding of the environmental situation, the possible response options and their consequences.
the environmental protection expenditure accounts present data, in a manner compatible with the data reported in the european system of accounts (esa), on environmental protection related expenditure, namely the economic resources allocated by resident units to environmental protection.
these accounts allow the compilation of national environmental protection-related expenditure which is defined as the sum of the use of environmental protection services by resident units, gross fixed capital formation for environmental protection activities and transfers for environmental protection which are not a counterpart of the previous items, less the financing by the rest of the world.
the accounts of environmental protection expenditure should use information already existing in the national accounts, structural business statistics, the business register and other sources.
promoting gender equality and women's empowerment are considered effective ways to combat poverty, hunger and disease and to encourage sustainable development.
- under the millennium development goals, 189 un member states in 2000, but also the european union itself, under articles 209 and 210 of the treaty, committed themselves to, among other things, ending extreme poverty and hunger by 2015, achieving universal primary education, promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other serious diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability and building a global partnership for development, to name just a few of the key commitments.
it also lays down rules on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and on the protection of intellectual property rights in plant varieties and the conservation and exchange of plant genetic resources.
the effects on the environment, but especially on human health, may be irreversible.
the commission considers that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality, numerous studies and research show that the use of this type of energy can be a viable solution in the diversification of energy sources.
- the aviation sector is one of the major polluters, and in the last 20 years emissions have almost doubled.
in addition, other modes of transport are heavily regulated in terms of environmental compliance.
this would eliminate unnecessary emissions caused by deviations and delays caused by air traffic control.
the union has a role and a duty to give new impetus to the development of global systems to reduce pollution in the aviation sector.
- global warming can only be effectively tackled through an international strategy.
neither carbon emissions nor climate change are limited to the space between national borders.
climate protection initiatives should be taken rapidly, given that the climate problems caused by global aviation emissions can only be effectively managed through an international approach.
a global agreement within icao offers the best prospects for ensuring long-term sustainability.
- i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 2003/87/ec establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community, with a view to implementing, from 2020, an international agreement on the application of a single global market-based measure for emissions from international aviation.
the union is working towards a future international agreement to control greenhouse gas emissions from aviation and, in the meantime, is limiting the climate change impact of aviation activities to and from union airports through autonomous action.
i voted in favour of member states, by way of derogation from articles 12 (2a), 14 (3) and 16, considering that the requirements laid down in those provisions are met and not taking action against aircraft operators in respect of all emissions from flights to and from aerodromes located in countries outside the european economic area (eea) in each calendar year from 1 january 2013 to 31 december 2016.
in writing.
the commission notes that the measure is not intended to create or maintain an economic activity in the union, but to promote the development of the union's energy sector.
nor is my country so dependent on russian gas for energy.
- the european union needs to make rapid progress on the coherence of external action in areas and on global issues such as development, trade, energy or migration.
- i voted in favour of the report and for the discharge to be given to the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators.
- the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators should follow the action plan established to improve the high-risk issues identified by the internal audit service, in particular in areas such as planning and monitoring, performance evaluation and career development, document and data management, facility management, logistics, security, stakeholder relations and communication, internal market monitoring, cooperation with national regulatory authorities and monitoring and enforcement of network codes.
- i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acarde), granting the director of acarde discharge and approving the closure of the accounts for the implementation of the acarde budget for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the acarde budget for the financial year 2012. the budget of acarde for the financial year 2012 was eur 7[nbsp ]241[nbsp ]850[nbsp ], representing an increase of 51,11% compared to 2011, which can be explained by the fact that the agency was recently established.
the centre can help identify sustainable solutions to tackle this problem.
- i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2012. with technological progress and the emergence of more and more chemical compounds on the eu market, a specialised body was needed to verify their compliance with environmental and health standards.
- i voted in favour of the report because, unlike in previous years, the european environment agency achieved a much more transparent budget execution in 2012 and the observations of the parliament and the court of auditors were taken into account, with a clear improvement in budget management.
- the european parliament has granted the executive director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2012. in accordance with the annual activity report and the court of auditors' audit findings, the level and nature of transfers in 2012 remained within the limits of the financial rules.
- i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012. according to its financial statements, the final budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2012 was eur 41[nbsp ]700[nbsp ]000 representing an increase of 1,25[nbsp ]% over the 2011 budget.
in the context of a future fisheries policy with a stronger component of species conservation and the sustainability of activities, it is clear that the role of the agency will need to be strengthened, including by extending its operational capacity.
- i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in 2012. this is an authority that has a particularly important role to play in economic recovery, as well as in creating sustainable jobs and growth, by promoting the safety and soundness of insurance and reinsurance institutions and protecting the interests of insured persons and pension scheme members.
- the authority's role in promoting the safety and soundness of insurance and reinsurance institutions and in protecting the interests of insured persons and members of pension schemes is essential for economic recovery as well as for the creation of sustainable jobs and growth in europe.
- i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in 2012. i welcome the fact that in 2012 the observatory has streamlined and further reduced its maintenance costs, revising its security parameters and reducing energy consumption, and i find the new treasury policy, which has reduced and allocated financial risk, to be appropriate.
- i voted in favour of the european parliament decisions on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency (eaa), granting the director-general of the eaa discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget and approving the closure of the eaa accounts for the financial year 2012. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing the observations forming an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european atomic energy community for the financial year 2012. according to the court of auditors, between 2008 and 2011, the aae did not benefit from its own budget, with the commission directly financing and paying all the expenditure.
we note with concern that in 2012, although the commission granted the agency an own budget of eur 98[nbsp ]000[nbsp ] (eur 104[nbsp ]000[nbsp ], if financial revenues from own investments are included) following the court's observations, and although article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community and article 6 of the agency's statute provide for the agency to have financial autonomy, the bulk of the agency's expenditure continued to be directly financed by the commission.
it is worth noting the launch of the synthesis report of the fifth european working conditions study, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of work, sustainable work and the ageing workforce, health and well-being, and working time and work-life balance.
eurofound's response to the shift in political priorities caused by the economic crisis is to be commended, with the launch of new projects related to the priority themes of the social impact of the crisis, economic recovery and job creation, demographic change and a sustainable public sector.
we highlight the launch of the synthesis report on the fifth european working conditions study, which contains important and relevant findings on trends in quality of work, sustainable work and the ageing workforce, health and well-being, and working time and work-life balance.
- i voted in favour of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2012. the artemis joint undertaking was established in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to define and implement a 'research agenda' for the development of key technologies for integrated information systems in different application sectors, with the aim of enhancing european competitiveness and sustainability and facilitating the emergence of new markets and applications in society.
the ipch members are the union, represented by the commission, the new energy world industry grouping (new-ig) and the research community (n.erghy).
- i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2012. however, the audit carried out by the court of auditors found that the company's internal control systems were not yet fully finalised and fully implemented.
- i voted in favour of the ep decisions on discharge and closure of the accounts for the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy (iter-jv), granting discharge to the director of iter-jv and approving the closure of iter-jv accounts for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2012. iter-c was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years.
negotiations on a comprehensive trade and cooperation agreement and on an agreement for a political dialogue between the eu and iran started in 2002. the process was interrupted in 2005 following revelations of iran's clandestine nuclear activities and its refusal to cooperate fully with the international atomic energy agency (iaea).
the commitments in the joint plan of action are only a first step towards a more comprehensive solution to the iranian nuclear issue and aim to reduce immediate tensions by creating a more favourable environment for a comprehensive diplomatic solution.
mr president, the sustainable development of air transport requires the adoption of measures to reduce aircraft noise at airports which have particular problems in managing this major deficiency.
the measure is neither radical nor destructive for the aviation industry, as it does not require the withdrawal of existing aircraft from service unless they are actually harmful, through the noise they produce, to public health and the environment.
aviation is a growing sector, it is the safest and fastest means of transport, so we cannot talk about sustainable economic development and secure jobs without foreseeing the expansion of the aviation sector with all the restrictions that are required for the safety, security and health of all european citizens.
i stress the importance of revising directive 49 of 2002 on the assessment and management of environmental noise and hope that the next commission will come up with concrete solutions to the health problems caused by noise at airports.
as shadow rapporteur of the socialist group in the european parliament, i believe that more emphasis should be placed on the preventive agronomic measures that farmers could take to reduce the risk of the establishment and development of pests before more drastic measures such as the use of pesticides are applied, as plant health is an essential factor for agriculture, horticulture and forestry and is also important for the protection of biodiversity and ecosystem services.
i believe that for this dialogue to take place in a climate of transparency, a well-functioning common register of organisations and individuals seeking to influence the process of developing and implementing european union policies is necessary.
unfortunately, programmes managed directly by the european commission, such as horizon 2020 or creative europe, are very little known or, in some countries, not known at all, which means that we are making plans, developing strategies for economic development at european level, adopting directives for the economic environment and combating unemployment in the european union in vain if we fail to create easy access to all the financial instruments we manage at european level.
the main objective is to restore consumer confidence in the proper functioning of the internal market by monitoring more closely products that present a risk to health and the environment.
i consider that termination of energy contracts often involves restrictive conditions and complex procedures, which makes it difficult to change supplier.
the inland waterway fleet has a high level of sustainability due to its long life, but the progressive renewal or technological upgrading of ship propulsion systems would allow for a reduction in air pollutant emissions, thus providing additional environmental benefits.
the shift2rail joint undertaking ((s2r) will be a public-private partnership aimed at stimulating and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the railway sector, while creating new employment opportunities, with a view to accelerating and facilitating the transition towards a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu railway market, in line with the overall objective of achieving a single european railway area.
- i believe that a new union strategy on alternative fuels should be implemented without prejudice to national and union efforts to influence travellers' behaviour and promote a modal shift towards more sustainable modes of transport and efficient logistics solutions, particularly in urban areas.
a strategic approach is needed to meet the long-term energy needs of all modes of transport.
i welcome this initiative and hope that both at the european union level and at the level of romania, this directive will ensure a favourable environment for the development of alternative fuels.
this directive establishes a common framework of measures for the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure in the union with the aim of minimising the dependence of transport on oil and mitigating its impact on the environment.
the union aims at a digital economy that produces sustainable economic and social benefits, based on modern online services and fast internet connections.
welcomes the extension of the scope of the current regulation so that the reserve funds can be used to support the inland waterway sector more effectively and to create a favourable environment for innovation and increased safety and environmental performance.
in order to enhance the consistency and comparability of non-financial information disclosed across the union, it is necessary for certain large undertakings to draw up a non-financial statement containing information on at least environmental, social and human resources aspects, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption and bribery.
the eu needs all its energy, creativity, resources and diplomacy to ensure the well-being and development of its members and to contribute to world peace.
those contracts, our energy dependence and the iranian and syrian dossiers are now simply instruments through which russia hopes to get our acquiescence to its military actions, destabilisation and pressure on the eastern partnership countries.
by suggesting the following:1. the use of economic sanctions against the aggressor without hesitation; 2. redefining, as a major priority of the future european commission and the future parliament, a genuine energy strategy on behalf of all 28 member states; 3. redefining the common security and defence policy and strengthening the transatlantic relationship to respond to the imperialist challenge from moscow.
this regulation shall apply to official controls performed to verify compliance with the following rules, established either at union level or by the member states for the purpose of applying union legislation in the following areas: food regulation, food safety, quality and hygiene at all stages of food production, processing and distribution; regulation of the deliberate release of gmos into the environment; prevention and minimisation of antimicrobial resistance in animals and humans as well as in the environment; regulation of feed and feed safety; establishment of animal health and welfare requirements; prevention and minimisation of risks to human and animal health arising from animal by-products and derived products, etc.
- i believe that the proposed measures for protection against plant pests must be taken in such a way as to ensure that all operators apply the precautionary principle and that the eradication of pests is carried out in a sustainable manner in order to protect the health of the food and agricultural chain, the population and, by implication, the environment.
member states should take measures to raise awareness of the potential economic, social and environmental impact of plant pests, the key principles relating to their prevention and spread, and the responsibility of society as a whole to ensure plant health in the union.
the market surveillance activities covered by this regulation should not be exclusively concerned with the protection of health and safety, but should also apply to ensuring compliance with union legislation aimed at protecting other public interests, for example by regulating measurement accuracy, electromagnetic compatibility, energy efficiency and applicable environmental legislation.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the multiannual financing of the european maritime safety agency's actions in the field of combating pollution caused by ships and marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations.
i believe that the agency plays an important role in tackling pollution from ships and gas and oil installations and that the benefits are both ecological, socio-economic and financial.
- i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on the multiannual financing of the european maritime safety agency's actions in the field of combating pollution caused by ships and marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations.
since january 2013, the agency has been given new tasks such as: responding to 'marine pollution caused by oil and gas installations'; monitoring by cleanseanet of marine hydrocarbon pollution caused by oil and gas installations and its impact on the environment.
the commission and the member states should fully exploit the job creation potential of the green economy by developing a rise for sustainable europe (rise) industrial recovery strategy, which aims at technological, social and business innovation towards a third industrial revolution, including a low-carbon modernisation offensive.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on how the european union can help create a favourable environment for businesses, companies and start-ups to create jobs.
we underline the job creation potential of the green economy, which the commission estimates could create 5[nbsp ] million jobs by 2020 in the energy efficiency and renewable energy sectors alone, provided ambitious climate change and energy policies are put in place.
the overall objective is to enhance cooperation between the eu and the union of the comoros with a view to establishing a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the union of the comoros' fishing zone, in the interest of both parties.
the global agreement provides for enhanced political, economic and sectoral cooperation in the following policy areas: • peace and security, conflict prevention and crisis management; • trade; • the environment; • energy, science and technology; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • the environment; • good governance; • tourism and culture; • migration; • combating terrorism, corruption and organised crime.
as regards the conclusion of the protocol on behalf of the european atomic energy community, the commission proposes that the council approve the conclusion of the protocol in accordance with the second paragraph of article 101 of the treaty establishing the eaec.
it is important to provide these countries with an opportunity to further promote cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links with the union and the member states.
the purpose of this exemption is to strengthen competitiveness, to compensate for the additional production costs generated by isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, the obligation to build stocks, the small size of the local market and the low level of exports.
decision 2004/162/ec authorises france, until 1 july 2014, to apply exemptions or reductions to 'anchorage duties' for a number of products manufactured in the french outermost regions (except saint martin) in order to increase competitiveness and compensate for additional production costs due to isolation, dependence on raw materials and energy, stockholding, the small size of the local market and the low level of export activity.
the shift2rail joint undertaking ((s2r) will be a public-private partnership aimed at stimulating and better coordinating union investment in research and innovation in the railway sector, while creating new employment opportunities, with a view to accelerating and facilitating the transition towards a more integrated, user-friendly, efficient, sustainable and attractive eu railway market, in line with the overall objective of achieving a single european railway area.
moreover, the commission is obliged to come up with solutions to the health problems caused by noise at airports by revising the environmental noise directive 2002/49/ec.
the leverage effect is to make infrastructure investments sustainable in the long term, with the effects of the cultural capital title being maintained in the years to come.
the agreement reached aims to: increase national representation in the selection and monitoring panel the host member state will appoint two persons; strengthen the european dimension of the annual cultural programmes; ensure the long-term sustainability of infrastructure projects; facilitate access to other sources of european funding (in particular the structural funds).
this excessive consumption of single-use plastic bags is not only very resource-inefficient, but also has negative consequences for the environment.
every year, eight billion plastic bags are dumped into the environment in the eu, including the seas.
- the consumption of plastic bags in the european union is excessive and has significant negative consequences for the environment.
each year, eight billion plastic bags are thrown into the environment in the eu, and the current recycling rate for plastic bags is only 6.6%.
i therefore believe that efforts at institutional level are needed to raise awareness of the environmental impact of plastic bags and to remove the current perception of plastic as a harmless, cheap and worthless commodity in itself.
in addition, carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction substances and substances that are endocrine disruptors should be removed from packaging material in order to avoid unnecessary exposure of humans to such substances and to avoid these substances entering the environment as waste.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste to reduce the consumption of thin plastic carrier bags.
they are not included in waste management systems and accumulate in the environment, especially in the form of marine litter, which is increasingly recognised as a major global problem.
i support the objective of this proposal on plastic carrier bags to limit negative environmental effects, in particular in terms of waste generation, to encourage waste prevention and more efficient use of resources, while limiting negative socio-economic effects.
- i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013.
shipping has an impact on the global climate and air quality through emissions of carbon dioxide (co2) and other emissions, including nitrogen oxides (nox), sulphur oxides (sox), methane (ch4), particulate matter (ps) and black smoke.
this regulation lays down rules for the accurate monitoring, reporting and verification of greenhouse gas emissions and other relevant information from ships arriving in, or within, or departing from ports under the jurisdiction of a member state, in order to promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from maritime transport in a cost-effective manner.
this regulation applies to ships of more than 400 gross tons in terms of emissions generated during their voyages from the last port of call to a port under the jurisdiction of a member state and from a port under the jurisdiction of a member state to their next port of call, as well as within ports under the jurisdiction of a member state.
a significant subset of allogeneic species may become invasive, causing serious adverse effects on biodiversity, related ecosystem services, and other economic and social effects, which should be prevented.
approximately 12 000 species occurring in the environment in the union and other european countries are allogeneic, of which approximately 10 to 15% are estimated to be invasive.
this regulation lays down rules on the prevention, minimisation and mitigation of the adverse effects of the introduction and spread, both intentional and unintentional, of invasive alien species on biodiversity in the union.
- i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (eu) no 525/2013 as regards the technical implementation of the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change (cconusc).
the adoption of the doha amendment, the implementation of related decisions of the conference of the parties to the unfccc serving as the meeting of the parties to the kyoto protocol and a joint fulfilment agreement require the establishment of rules to ensure the technical implementation in the union of the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, including the transition from the first to the second commitment period, in order to allow the effective functioning of a joint fulfilment agreement and to ensure its alignment with the functioning of the european union emissions trading scheme established by directive 2003/87/ec and decision 406/2009/ec.
this cooperation can be enhanced by: including in the objectives a particular focus on combating youth unemployment, promoting sustainable jobs and combating social dumping; involving social partners and national labour administrations and respecting the organisation of competences in the various member states.
the objective of this decision is to encourage cooperation through the network between member states in the field of employment, in the areas falling under the responsibility of the spofm, in order to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy and the implementation of relevant union policies, thus providing support, inter alia, to: • the most vulnerable social groups, facing high unemployment rates, in particular older workers and young people who are not in a professional capacity and are not following any education or training programme; • decent and sustainable working conditions; • better functioning of eu labour markets.
under the regulation adopted at first reading, at the request of a member state or a state which is in negotiations with a view to accession to the union, hereinafter referred to as 'eligible state', aid from the fund may be mobilised where, in one or more regions of that eligible state, serious repercussions on living conditions, the natural environment or the economy arise as a result of a major or regional natural disaster that has occurred in the territory of that eligible state or of a neighbouring eligible state.
under decision 94/375/ec, the eif was set up in 1994 to 'promote sustainable and balanced development within the community'.
this regulation lays down the union financial measures necessary for the implementation of the common fisheries policy (cfp); the relevant measures relating to the law of the sea; the sustainable development of fisheries and aquaculture and inland fisheries; and the integrated maritime policy (imp).
secondly, i would like to say that in the field of utilities, particularly energy and natural gas, some member states where there is no competition have been pushed by the commission and the international monetary fund to liberalize prices, which has only led to an exaggerated increase in these prices in a market which is, in fact, without competition.
the signature and conclusion of the protocol shall be subject to a separate procedure as regards matters falling within the competence of the european atomic energy community.
- under the europe 2020 strategy for better competitiveness and employment, long-term financing is an important tool used to put the european economy on a path to steady and sustainable growth.
- i voted for the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 on shipments of waste.
in order to protect the environment, regulation (ec) no 1013/2006 lays down requirements for shipments of waste both within the union and between member states and third countries.
therefore, appropriate planning of waste shipment controls is needed to determine the capacities required to carry out such controls and to effectively prevent illegal shipments.
illegal shipments of waste frequently originate from uncontrolled collection, sorting and storage facilities.
the systematic checks of shipments of waste should therefore help to identify and address those uncontrolled activities, thereby promoting the implementation of regulation (ec) no 1013/2006.
the eu and japan already cooperate in a number of areas, such as science and technology, internet security, academic and research cooperation, peaceful uses of nuclear energy, business community contacts and the promotion of direct people-to-people links.
i voted for amendment no 16, which stresses that simplification of eu regulations should be done in a way that fully respects eu requirements on health and safety at work, the rights of eu workers, and the principles and objectives of eu legislation on the environment, health and consumer protection.
in this regard, i believe that there is a need, first of all, to create a favourable environment for smes by creating modern financing instruments and improving access to credit at affordable rates, as well as on the public procurement market.
in this respect, it is important to promote cooperation between strong centres and weaker ones, which will help to maintain the pace of investment and research while ensuring a sustainable growth of innovation in the eu.
i hope that the next two years of the new mandate, through close cooperation between the commission and the ep, will bring the review of the mff to the eu institutions to empower them to work with member states to create jobs and ensure sustainable growth.
secondly, we need an immediate solution to the energy security problem.
no, i think in the rapidly changing global environment standing still means falling behind, so the status quo is not an option.
with the two particular sectors i want to refer to, firstly a common transatlantic approach to the digital economy, ict and innovation will continue driving enormous productivity in our economy, encouraging investment, while our creative and hyper-connected youth will be creating their own opportunities on the market; and secondly, an extended deal on energy trade within the ttip will allow cheaper prices for consumers but also for our industry, making it more competitive on world markets while we will ensure security of supply and therefore our independence.
i believe that such an agreement must first ensure that eu social, health and environmental standards are respected, introduce synchronisation and simplification of customs procedures and reduce bureaucratic costs.
our position represents an important step towards gender equality, social progress and economic sustainability.
i am convinced that all necessary precautions will be taken to avoid negative consequences for the environment as well as for the local communities in the mediterranean.
if we fail to reduce the disparities and inequalities between member states, we will never be able to talk about sustainable growth in the european union.
cooperation with the private sector, the creation of an sme-friendly environment in the eu, which involves ensuring optimal financial and legal conditions for newly established enterprises, are initiatives that must be taken into account consistently.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
however, let me remind members that the report criticised the overall political environment and found a lack of respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights due to political polarisation.
in this respect, i would like to refer to the eu guidelines on freedom of expression adopted last may in which we clearly state that ‘all governments must allow journalists to work in a free and enabling environment in safety and security, without the fear of censorship or restraint’.
i have also taken good note of the position of the committee on industry, research and energy on the 2015 eu budget as they expressed it in their vote on 2 september 2014. it is appropriate that, in the week when we meet and have this discussion, the world university rankings have just been published.
when we talked about horizon 2020 and putting the programme together, we worked with the committee on industry, research and energy to ensure that it meant exactly what mrs mcguiness talked about: collaboration, getting rid of duplication, and ensuring that the best of european researchers work together with companies, the private sector, smes to ensure that we get this synergy going and that we ensure european subsidiarity.
- i welcome the importance of improving the employability of all workers through tailored training courses and the recognition of skills and competences acquired during their professional careers, and i believe that the training offered in the coordinated package must be adapted not only to the needs of the workers made redundant, but also to the real needs of the business environment.
it's not at all a sustainable situation, economically or socially.
as s&d coordinator for the committee on industry, research and energy, i would stress that this case demonstrates the need for a union strategy on the steel industry to maintain competitiveness.
in order to find a sustainable solution to the problem, i urge the commission to present a proposal on the steel products industry with measures to improve the employability of workers in this particular sector in romania, and elsewhere in europe.
i am pleased that this summer europe reiterated its willingness to contribute to a sustainable and comprehensive solution that enhances the security, well-being and prosperity of palestinians and israelis.
after the rana plaza disaster, the eu launched the global sustainability compact to improve working conditions, labour rights, and safety conditions and to foster corporate social responsibility.
the signature of the sustainability compact has permitted bangladesh to continue benefiting from the duty-free, quota-free tariff preferences for exports into the european union, which are key to sustaining exports and a major instrument of stability and poverty alleviation.
we very much value the commitment of bangladesh to pursuing the implementation of the sustainability compact and we call on the government to make real progress in meeting compact commitments.
its role remains a necessary factor for de-escalation of the conflict and a political, sustainable, long-term solution.
that is why i voted in favour of this resolution calling on member states to act together to improve the eu's energy security and its ability to counter asymmetric challenges from russia.
significant improvements in energy security, ensuring the eu's independence from external pressure, by strengthening the energy sector, developing energy infrastructure in the eu's neighbouring countries and developing energy interconnections between these eu countries are needed.
i would remind you that funding through the peace iii programme for peace and reconciliation in northern ireland has contributed significantly to creating a stable climate in the region.
i also support the call on the european union institutions to encourage trade, cultural, scientific, economic, energy and water relations between israel and its neighbours.
i welcome the eu's willingness to contribute to an effective and sustainable solution that enhances the security, well-being and prosperity of palestinians and israelis alike, and i believe that active political engagement by member states is needed to try to achieve a lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
the only way to break this vicious circle is to find a sustainable agreement that will address all the root causes of the conflict.
floods are natural phenomena with major impacts on people's lives and the environment.
human intervention in the environment through urban expansion, agricultural development, but especially through uncontrolled deforestation has considerably changed the situation of watersheds.
structural measures shall focus on the protection and safety of citizens, the environment and essential food sources.
the first one is tax reform, for instance lowering labour tax and raising environmental tax, or raising dividend tax and at the same time lowering corporate income tax.
so it is not only about austerity, but a change to society so that it is stronger and more sustainable.
so at the same time as we are reforming our societies to be more sustainable, they can be more growth-oriented.
as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for a union strategy on european industry.
unfortunately, the steel sector in europe is facing serious economic difficulties and as the s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need for investment in this sector to revive steel production in the eu.
as s&d coordinator for industry, research and energy, i stress the need to identify solutions that strengthen the competitiveness of the automotive sector.
in view of the significant difficulties faced by the european automotive industry, these solutions need to take into account economic, social and environmental aspects.
it wants to connect europe in the transport, energy and digital sectors.
all these 2020 targets, agreed by the previous commission, will set a framework for competitiveness, sustainability and security in the eu.
mr president, the geopolitical climate at our eastern border is still frozen in limbo and, as the approaching winter becomes the main negotiation tool for our eastern supplier, pragmatism appears to be the word on everyone’s lips.
for the completion of the single energy market we need to fill in the missing links in the infrastructure.
we need to get smart and we need direct access to the global energy market through multiple entry points.
a fully functioning internal energy market connected to the global market is the key to security of supply and to the long-term competitiveness of our industry.
focussing on a co2 emissions reduction target that will keep our air clean is good, but we must also allow member states to decide themselves how they want to streamline their efforts on renewables and energy efficiency because each competitiveness pole in europe needs different policy tuning and a different energy mix.
that is why a general emissions reduction target with flexible implementation is the choice to make.
keeping our industry competitive and creating a real european market in energy with low prices and numerous supply sources is not a pragmatic choice; it is a choice for growth and this is what should be in our leadersʼ minds at this upcoming summit.
i am pleased that the ec agenda includes a debate that brings together three important themes such as the environment, energy and economic growth.
we talk about renewable energy and the future opportunities offered by this industry, but the european market is invaded by products from outside the european union and young people do not benefit from specific training to integrate professionally in this field.
we are talking about energy, but each member state negotiates separately for gas imports from russia creating price differences between member states.
we talk about a common energy market, but we regulate it by forcing even energy and gas producing member countries like romania to raise their prices, affecting the local population, instead of letting the market act and competition lead to lower prices.
we talk about the environment and energy, but we don't talk about the inequalities between rich and poor and the need to support those with low incomes.
we talk about economic growth, but we don't produce or support innovation in energy or the environment.
partnership agreements must ensure maximum convergence between the structural and investment funds and national budgets, and national strategies must be developed rapidly to make the use of funds more efficient and to generate sustainable economic growth.
we also manage to reach out to the rural environment and show that the european union is also acting at this level.
– president juncker, we, the citizens of europe are expecting: a commission with a new way of doing things: more dynamic, more efficient, better cooperating with the european parliament, a commission oriented towards the european citizens’ aims and goals, a commission that will focus on new investments, investments in europe’s critical infrastructure, investments to fuel sustainable growth, a commission that will develop new programmes and allocate more money for job creation, especially for young people, a commission which will work thoroughly on improving solidarity between the member countries of the eu, especially the development of less developed regions within eu countries, a commission that will find the right balance between support for the private sector and for financial institutions and an effective social security for eu citizens, a commission which will work hard to implement and further develop a real common security and defence policy, an eu with the necessary military capabilities to face old and new challenges and threats to our common security, a commission which will work hard for a more influential eu in international affairs.
the eu needs continued efforts to consolidate its budgetary health, consolidate the progress made, and provide a sustainable boost to economic competitiveness and job creation.
i expect continuation of public social policies, i expect public policies targeted at the needs of young people, i expect sustainable investment in infrastructure and in reducing the gap between east and west.
these are formidable challenges, including increasing europe's competitiveness and job creation, developing a coherent european energy and climate policy, and the problem of insecurity in our neighbourhood, and there are many more.
our red lines as a political family were clear: the end of austerity-only policies; investment for sustainable growth and decent jobs; a vigorous fight against the drama of youth unemployment; safeguarding freedom of movement.
our red lines as a political family were clear: the end of austerity-only policies; investments for sustainable growth and decent jobs; a vigorous fight against the drama of youth unemployment; safeguarding freedom of movement.
instead of a strategic investment programme to boost competitiveness and sustainable jobs in key areas such as transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure, the council has put forward a proposal that ignores the eu's role in coordinating growth initiatives and supporting them through its own funding instruments.
- i voted in favour of the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015. the union budget plays an important role in achieving objective policy objectives such as: investments in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure at union level (including the completion of the digital single market by 2015), energy efficiency, innovation and research.
the eu budget should therefore focus in particular on decent job creation and sustainable economic growth.
ending this fragmentation requires structural reforms that focus on sustainable policies that are pro-growth and ultimately create jobs and combat poverty.
another objective of structural reforms should be the medium- and long-term sustainability and equity of social security, healthcare and pension systems.
it highlights the importance of socially sustainable structural reforms, enhances the fight against social exclusion, against gender inequality in the labour market and the difficulties smes experience in accessing finance.
we stress the importance of continuing the process of deep, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms in order to achieve growth, create jobs and combat poverty.
at the same time, we have all seen that union negotiations have failed to provide gas to ukraine this winter, and russia is again using this energy weapon to have an influence on next sunday’s elections in ukraine.
the transformation of institutions provided for by the dcfta will also create a more stable environment for moldovan businesses, for moldovan citizens; there will be less scope for arbitrariness of elites of any kind.
the union needs to adopt an ambitious and effective common position on the principles and objectives that will form part of the new global framework for development after 2015. if we are to have an impact on poverty reduction, we need a single, comprehensive and integrated framework with clear benchmarks and incorporating the main issues of development and sustainability.
the new global development framework must indeed pay particular attention to the links between development and crucial areas such as trade, finance, energy, agriculture and the environment.
secondly, i welcome the fact that in this report the core issue of climate change has been recognised as one of the main underlying structural factors that lead to poverty and inequality in the current world.
because of climate change, the world will have to face the consequences of struggles over scarce resources, conflict, violence and hunger.
rising sea levels endanger entire regions of the planet, and, if we do not act now, there will be an increase in natural disasters, which will continue to cause the death and suffering of hundreds of thousands or millions of people, often in developing countries, who, let us be clear, are the least responsible for climate change.
in order to achieve our post-2015 development goals, we must make sure that our development – not only of developing countries but also of european countries – is going to be sustainable.
we must find a way to promote growth while reducing greenhouse gas emissions by changing energy patterns.
my hope is that, at the upcoming climate conferences in lima and paris, the eu will be the leader in the global effort to tackle climate change in advance of the un summit in september, since unmitigated climate change creates costs for global development that we absolutely cannot afford.
on the other hand, achieving the 'zero hunger' goal cannot be achieved without including the concept of food and nutrition security as a top priority for the new global development framework and linking it to efforts to promote sustainable agriculture, increase agricultural and fisheries productivity, reduce food loss and waste, manage natural resources transparently and adapt to climate change.
i also voted for this report because the core issue of climate change has been recognised as one of the main underlying structural factors that lead to poverty and inequality in the world today.
due to climate change the world will have to face the consequences of struggles over scarce resources – conflict, violence and hunger.
if we do not act now, there will be an increase in natural disasters, which will continue to cause the death and suffering of hundreds of thousands of people, often those in developing countries who, let us be clear, are the least responsible for climate change.
in order to achieve our post-2015 development goals, we must make sure that our development – not only that of the developing countries but of the european countries as well – will continue and will be long-lasting and sustainable.
key issues such as human rights violations, armed conflict and terrorism, climate change, food insecurity, migration, corruption, tax fraud and evasion, unemployment, and financial and economic crises still pose challenges to eu member states.
reducing inequalities between member states and, by implication, between the people of the union is the basis for sustainable development, which can lead to the eradication of poverty.
in my view, poverty eradication can be achieved through three key conditions: the absence of armed conflict, the prevention of climate disasters and the improvement of productivity in the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
good governance for sustainable and balanced global development in the post-2015 period is directly linked to one of the main millennium development goals: halving the number of people suffering from hunger and poverty.
i therefore advocate channelling european investment to boost the less developed regions of the eu and creating transport and energy supply networks to strengthen the project of european integration.
– europe needs more prosperity, job creation, stability and sustainable growth.
the investment plan is an ambitious and viable step in that direction aiming at adding around eur 330 billion to the eu gdp over the next three years and creating up to 1.3 million jobs in key strategic areas, such as energy, transport, education, research and innovation.
i ask all the member states to fully support and actively take part in this project in order to help restore a sustainable and stable european union.
climate change is affecting the world, not just europe.
some citizens misperceive climate change, and others (most) say that nothing coherent is being done to improve the situation.
because they see money being spent with minimal effects, they see emissions moving from one country to another by moving waste, old cars, old technologies from one country to another.
the council and the commission have an obligation to find solutions that deliver concrete results so that 'climate change' does not remain just a slogan.
i welcome the approach of the european institutions to their concern about climate change.
i believe that if we act now, the costs of food production and environmental protection for the global, european and national economies can be reduced in the future.
all the world's states must take appropriate measures to establish globally coordinated regional and macro-regional plans that are capable not only of responding to climate change, but also of preventing its effects, in order to protect the society in which we live and its citizens.
every month, every year that passes without making firm decisions about the risks of climate change means that we don't think about our living conditions, but more than that, it means that we don't care about the planet that we leave to our children.
the call to all actors (governments, international organisations, non-governmental organisations and sub-national actors) must be answered, and the answer can only be better international cooperation in action against climate change.
we must not forget that food security and safety, especially for vulnerable people, is affected by the effects of climate change.
- the european union must continue to play a very active role in the fight against the global climate crisis, and the new commission must ensure that programmes to protect the environment and combat the effects of climate change can receive adequate funding.
in all its actions, the eu must take into account that climate change policies need to be linked to the actions taken following the rio conference and in line with the millennium development goals and the post-2015 agenda.
there was talk of climate change negotiations, but we europeans should blame ourselves for not having been to the hill between the united states and china (it was signed, of course, before in beijing).
environmental goals can be achieved without killing the steel industry.
the ec must be careful to reduce the administrative burden associated with european programmes and, above all, we need the courage to create a common energy policy at european level that brings the price of energy back up to the level required by global competition.
current issues such as the conflict in ukraine, the threats of the islamic state, as well as domestic challenges in implementing the jobs, growth and investment package, need a stable climate at european level.
the digital single market will also create new jobs especially for highly skilled workers and will make an important contribution to the creation of quality and sustainable employment.
i voted for ensuring that universal access to nutritionally adequate food and the fight against child malnutrition remain the most important targets within the overall objective of eradicating hunger in the post-2015 agenda, including the eradication of all forms of malnutrition by 2030. so, 25 years after the adoption of the un convention on the rights of the child, it is disappointing to see that some signatory states have not yet been able to create an enabling environment to ensure that children have access to adequate nutrition.
the european union must keep environmental protection at the top of its agenda and i believe it will be beneficial for it to join the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites).
i can just reiterate that with this proposal the objectives will be delivered and the target of a 6% greenhouse gas reduction by 2020 will be met.
the objective of the fuel quality directive is to reduce the carbon content of fuel used for road transport.
the aim of the fuel quality directive is not to discourage the use of any specific type of fuel but to ensure the appropriate accounting of greenhouse gas emissions.
the fact that the european union can join cites as a member after having held observer status demonstrates that the eu is fully capable of pursuing its own objectives in line with its environmental policy.
‒ i support the european union's accession to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), as this accession is a global confirmation of the eu's environmental concerns.
european environmental policy already aims to protect species whose survival may be threatened by international trade and stipulates a licensing system for import-export-re-export operations, as well as rules on documents of origin for species covered by the convention.
international trade must not become a tool for reckless exploitation of the environment, which accelerates the harmful phenomenon of the disappearance of new and new species.
the commission should also use the european regional development fund to make the necessary investments in research and innovation to revitalise this sector, in particular in innovative production processes and energy efficiency.
while not sacrificing environmental standards or the voice of our steel workers in the process, european steel needs a clear support plan to get back on the track of growth.
we urge the commission to speed up the preparation of the roadmap for industrial policy announced for the first part of 2015 to revitalise european industry on the world market with a view to ensuring a level playing field, while guaranteeing high social and environmental standards in the eu.
the commission should also allocate part of its investment package to long-term viable infrastructure projects and to innovation in industrial macro-projects, including energy efficiency and low carbon projects, which could also significantly boost eu steel demand.
i voted in favour of the report on the motion for a non-legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the association agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part.