in writing − setting emission targets for light commercial vehicles will help reduce fuel consumption and the sustainability of european innovation production.
on the other hand, the emission reduction is a clear step forward in the long-term environmental protection target 2020. after several negotiations with the european commission and the council, i believe that the parties have managed to reach an appropriate compromise in setting an emission ceiling of 147 grams per 100 km by 2020. if the original targets set by the commission were to be met, we could easily end up with a global isolation of european producers.
by encouraging innovation and improving the performance of cars, we will be able to strike a balance between the economic and environmental requirements of the next generation of commercial vehicles.
despite the extremist views faced by the envi committee responsible, i believe that the report presented is in the interests of car manufacturers, who will retain their competitive advantages, and consumers, who will save money on fuel and ultimately protect the environment.
in writing − although the production of passenger cars and light commercial vehicles is undergoing unprecedented technological change, these vehicles still account for around 15% of co2 emissions in the eu, including emissions from fuel deliveries, according to statistics.
i voted in favour of this current report because i believe that the proposals presented can become an important tool for meeting the eu's targets of reducing total greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 by 20% below 1990 levels and in transforming the transport sector into a zero-carbon sector in line with the eu's climate change policy and the transport white paper.
i am convinced that the measures and procedures proposed by the commission can also lead to lower fuel consumption for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles, which could ultimately translate into greater economic efficiency and environmental protection in individual eu member states.
i also support all the commission proposals which represent a clear and stable legal environment for investment and further incentive for vehicle manufacturers and component suppliers to achieve these objectives.
in writing − although i consider europe to be one of the world leaders in the development of carbon capture and storage (ccs) technologies, i consider the current state of its development to be inadequate.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that if we are to achieve the set targets of reducing greenhouse gases by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, it is essential that the eu takes measures that create more favourable and more stimulating conditions for economic operators.
i also supported the report because i consider the introduction of ccs to be one of the necessary measures that can mitigate the consequences and impacts of climate change on man and his environment.
these investments will be a key instrument for achieving the europe 2020 objectives of creating jobs, growth, combating climate change and energy dependence, and, not least, reducing poverty and social exclusion.
it is essential that funds are spent more efficiently, as national, local and regional budgets are under increasing pressure in the current economic environment.
it is therefore necessary to lay down the specific measures to be taken and the objectives to be set in the field of waste management legislation in the european union.
plastic waste should be considered a valuable resource and new legislation should provide ways to reduce plastic waste in the first place.
the measures should aim at a timely revision of the packaging directive, defining collection, sorting and recycling targets and supporting the creation of corresponding infrastructures, introducing processing methods for different types of plastics, hazardous plastics to be phased out or banned in 2020, reducing and phasing out the production of single-use plastic carrier bags, increasing public and private investment in research and development of sustainable plastics.
the european union and the member states must tackle the illegal export and storage of plastic waste.
another key step is to promote public awareness through campaigns such as the european day against plastic waste.
local authorities must make increased efforts to dispose of municipal and industrial plastic waste.
in writing − currently, almost 40 per cent of waste comes from packaging.
plastic packaging, including bags, should not be seen as waste but rather as a valuable resource that can be reused.
the modern european economy should gradually move from simply incinerating its waste to more thorough recycling.
in the end, modern and efficient waste management is an area that is part of sustainable and smart growth and creates many new jobs, including for professionals.
for these reasons, i welcome the report on plastic waste.
however, the data on waste is not consolidated, ranging from 25 megatons produced in 2008 according to the european commission to 13 megatons in 2010 according to the european environment agency.
without comparable data and figures on the production, collection, sorting, recycling, recovery and disposal of plastics, it is not possible to develop a targeted and effective policy, in particular as regards the actions needed to prevent illegal waste flows.
the impact of plastic waste on the environment is still underestimated, so one of the important steps is the revision of the packaging and waste regulation.
plastic materials are becoming more diverse and their use is expanding, leading to higher waste volumes and more frequent combinations with other materials.
in writing − first of all, i would like to commend the rapporteur for the very high quality and detailed treatment of the issue of plastic waste in the environment.
plastic waste is a major environmental problem and is now a problem for municipal policy in particular.
the problem of sorting plastic waste is insufficient.
plastic waste is not recycled but incinerated, which again negatively affects the environment.
rural areas, often dependent on agriculture, such as mountain regions, can, on the basis of a regional quality label, rebuild their position on the product market, but also on the service market, thus ensuring sustainable employment development.
it is important to award public contracts in an efficient and socially sustainable manner.
failure to comply with obligations in the field of social and labour law and environmental law shall be considered as a reason for exclusion.
as regards environmental and social standards, i am convinced that the criterion of the lowest price should not be the sole criterion for awarding contracts.
the most economically advantageous tender must therefore be assessed in terms of the economic but also the social and environmental benefits.
in order to increase transparency, any entity that does not comply with obligations arising from social, labour and environmental law, whether defined in national or european legislation and in collective agreements concluded in accordance with union law, should also be excluded from public procurement.
ladies and gentlemen, without a more sensitive approach to employers and respect for the elementary rules of the market in shaping the economic environment, we will never replace the lost industrial capacity.
it not only provides jobs, services or tax revenues, but is also a key factor in the transition to a low-carbon economy.
raw materials and energy resources are of central importance for the development of european industry.
ensuring a transparent energy market is also essential for international competitiveness.
ensure access to safe, sustainable, affordable and reliable energy.
similarly, a balance should be struck between simplifying rules on the one hand and introducing sound and efficient procedures based on innovative and sustainable criteria for evaluating tenders on the other, while also ensuring greater participation by member states and extending the use of electronic public procurement.
any entity that fails to comply with an obligation under social, labour and environmental law, as defined in national and european legislation and collective agreements concluded in accordance with european union law, should be excluded from public procurement.
i very much welcome the replacement of the concept of 'lowest price' by that of 'most economically advantageous offer', which must take account of environmental and social aspects without compromising the primary quality criterion.
in writing − if you have to maintain employment, social inclusion and sustainable growth, the potential of public procurement needs to be exploited to the maximum extent possible.
it is necessary to introduce technical specifications containing tender documents in order to enable the contracting authority to achieve the sustainability objectives it has set.
europe cannot compete with emerging economies on wages, it must focus on reducing its energy and resource costs through their efficient use.
i therefore join the call to the member states to incorporate the right to free movement more fully into their legislation and to create a favourable environment for its application in everyday life.
the eu 2020 strategy has set the objective of rescuing at least 20 million people from the threat of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. the committee of the regions has presented a social housing programme which focuses on financial and social housing, the use of structural funds and the use of energy efficiency.
intelligent energy systems bring opportunities for the regions.
in particular, for the marginal and disadvantaged to not only reduce their energy costs but also to become producers and exporters of energy.
i therefore fully support the decentralised implementation of energy strategies with active support from the structural funds and full use of public-private partnerships.
local innovation takes account of local ecological and economic specificities, brings jobs to the region and increases its competitiveness.
member states should take account of the benefits of such cross-border cooperation, in particular by aligning existing legislation in a favourable way, thereby facilitating access for their regions to mutually beneficial energy partnerships.
compliance with the law contributes to legal certainty for citizens and businesses and creates a favourable environment for the development of individual rights and prosperity in the internal market.
petitions submitted by citizens point to fundamental breaches of european union law, in particular in the areas of fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market and property rights.
the collection of information and data is of great importance to the european commission in the compilation of inter-sectoral analysis and in the performance of its energy tasks.
this regulation, together with the connecting europe facility, aims to complete the internal energy market.
the aim is to ensure that the commission receives accurate and regular information on investment projects in the european union that affect energy infrastructure in order to fulfil its energy tasks.
the commission shall, every two years, carry out a cross-sectoral analysis of the structural evolution and prospects of the union's energy system.
other important amendments to the draft report include the extension of the scope of the regulation to coal, the reporting of infrastructure investments in third countries that have an impact on the energy policy of the union, the imposition of reporting obligations on capacities for import and export of compressed natural gas and liquefied natural gas, the reduction of the threshold for data reporting for onshore wind capacity, the extension of the reporting obligation to capacities related to electricity storage facilities.
in order to reduce regulatory and administrative burdens in the european union and the member states, it is necessary to take account of the new legislative environment.
it is important to create a safe and free environment for all people, regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation.
predictable, timely and enforceable judicial decisions are important components of an attractive business environment.
the resolution rightly emphasises that energy efficiency can open up new opportunities for smes, including family businesses.
we can face the future with confidence if we know how to take advantage of the challenges we face, especially in the field of smart energy.
the resolution also has a positive impact on local employment and encourages all regions and local institutions to consider the benefits and invest in smart energy systems.
energy consumption and production vary across the different regions of the european union.
there are opportunities for geographical and territorial transformation of the energy network for disadvantaged regions.
these regions will in future move from being energy consumers to being producers.
the european commission's role is to ensure ambitious targets for 2030 in the field of energy efficiency and renewable sources.
at the same time, there is a chance to transform the poor districts on the periphery of the member states into regions symbolizing stable and secure energy supplies and symbolizing sustainability.
joint planning and implementation efforts in a process involving all actors create synergies and deliver better long-term benefits for the regions, not only in terms of security and accessibility of energy production and supply, but also in terms of economic, social and environmental benefits.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the lack of energy infrastructure and the dependence of regions on existing networks oblige us to look for new opportunities for innovative digital technologies.
i believe that the current rise in energy prices, climate change and socio-economic problems should also force eu member states to look for ways of providing a stable and secure energy supply that is of interest to the citizen not only in terms of its availability but also in terms of meeting the most stringent environmental protection criteria.
i expect that the integration of smart grids into regional energy plans will enable citizens not only to participate actively in the energy planning of the networks, but also to benefit from the financial and social benefits.
written - small farms are exposed to a strong competitive environment in times of economic crisis and need help to increase competitiveness and performance.
to improve the current situation, it is necessary to reduce energy costs by supplying safe and sustainable energy, to reduce the environmental burden of the steel industry and to make high capital investments in the future, in particular in the upgrading of breakthrough technologies, which are however associated with significant risks and long-term returns.
i would remind you that even european energy and defence are directly dependent on the steel industry.
balanced and sustainable trade in the steel sector must be based on respect for workers' rights and environmental protection standards.
in writing one of the necessary prerequisites for the efficient implementation of the necessary investments in low-carbon technologies and solutions, new production capacities, smart transport networks and transmission systems is the stability of the 2030 climate and energy framework.
while ensuring the transition to a low-carbon economy, the proposals should not impose a disproportionate burden on national economies.
i therefore support a binding target for greenhouse gas emissions of 35% earlier than in 1990. the ets should play a central role, but the free allocation scheme would have to continue in order to protect businesses exposed to international competition.
the role of nuclear energy as one of the options for reducing co2 emissions should be strengthened, as the elimination of carbon emissions will depend on the different share of low-carbon technologies in each member state.
new financial instruments and mechanisms should be established for the implementation of the 2030 climate and energy package.
in the future, it is essential to intensify research into understanding and preventing environmental risks and to develop partnerships between insurance companies and research institutes in order to prepare citizens to face the risks associated with natural disasters.
the eu and other participating bodies in the geneva talks must make sure that these negotiations are constructive and follow the geneva communiqué passed in 2012. we must not waste time; we must begin the transition of power from the al-assad regime to the people of syria.
the transport of goods by sea is energy efficient and it is therefore important to create the conditions for it to remain an integrated part of the supported transport system of the union.
as in the automotive sector, we must also support the introduction of modern technologies in the shipping industry in order to increase the environmental performance of shipping.
in writing, the european union and other major greenhouse gas emitters have focused their efforts on reducing emissions to the upper 80-95% limit by 2050. according to the ipcc report, the timeframe for global action is fast approaching its end and inaction by individual states could reverse recent progress towards the mdgs.
member states of the european union must reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to at least 50% below 1990 levels by 2030. by 2020, member states must make every effort to increase investment in climate architecture to help less developed countries achieve ambitious goals.
the european union should continue to reduce emissions and create new jobs in the environmental industries.
cooperation in the field of energy is very important for both partners and russia should not use the supply of natural resources as a political tool.
concerns about the persistence of violence against women remain, and we also stress the special role of independent and sustainable public media.
legislation adopted by the european union in 2009 set binding targets for reducing emissions from new cars.
the main objective of the legislation is to improve the fuel consumption of new cars and to reduce co2 emissions to 130[nbsp ]g between 2012-2015 and[nbsp ]95[nbsp ]g/km by 2020 on the european market.
car manufacturers are being encouraged to innovate and incorporate new green technologies and packages that reduce consumption and therefore co2 emissions.
reducing co2 emissions from new cars through modern drive concepts will bring significant financial benefits, primarily for the consumer.
the agreement between the european parliament and the council on co2 emissions reductions will also lead to a directly proportional gradual reduction in fuel consumption.
the new eu strategy sets a binding target to reduce co2 emissions from 130g/km to 95g/km in the production of new cars by 2020. i believe that the final text agreed by the european parliament and the member states is an adequate compromise that will promote the production of low-emission vehicles.
however, we must not forget that the use of new technologies must also take account of environmental protection.
this is also evidenced by the fact that many car manufacturers are already offering vehicles that are lighter, more fuel efficient, and lower in co2 emissions.
despite this, we often find that cars and light commercial vehicles still produce around 15% of co2 emissions, which is not acceptable for the eu.
i voted in favour of this report because it contains proposals and[nbsp]procedures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase energy efficiency in new passenger cars.
the european business environment is made up of a huge number of companies and therefore the trade mark system needs to be clearly understandable and accessible to all users.
the european commission intends to create a more attractive environment for migrants from third countries.
the union strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, europe 2020, aims to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by 2020. one way forward is to ensure that, in addition to creating jobs in all regions and strengthening social infrastructure, for example through the structural funds, adequate financial coverage is provided under the fund for european aid to the most deprived.
the adoption of the amended version will ensure a high level of protection for humans, animals and the environment and will provide the necessary clarity and legal certainty to the general public.
the role of the european parliament in the european semester process will be strengthened, thereby increasing the emphasis on addressing the consequences of the economic crisis and ensuring inclusive and sustainable growth.
- the european economy must be ready to respond to the food supply and climate change challenges of the future and to prepare a modern and competitive plant breeding industry.
systematic and far-reaching changes are needed in the new programming period to open up the investment policy in the outermost regions to new areas and thus to preserve sustainable development.
the liberalisation of the railway sector will allow a healthy competitive environment to be created in this sector and thus increase the level of services provided.
rail passenger transport currently accounts for a very small share of total passenger transport in the european union, and investment in this sector could support employment growth as well as environmental protection.
with increasing air pollution and the resulting increase in greenhouse gas emissions, the importance of rail transport is growing.
accidents in the railway sector are rare, but when they do occur, they have catastrophic consequences for the number of victims, the environment and the reputation of rail transport as the safest form of transport.
the growing importance of air transport also brings with it the challenge of not increasing accident rates and the associated fatal consequences for human life and the environment in direct proportion to the increasing volume of passengers carried.
it is therefore necessary to ensure the creation of a genuine and uniform environment of trust, a so-called justice culture.
the objective of the european union health programme 2014-2020 is to support and add value to the existing health policies of the member states in order to maintain a high level of health for citizens of the european union and to reduce inequalities between member states by promoting innovation in health, the sustainability of healthcare systems and protection against serious cross-border health threats.
the extraction of natural resources is a major source of armed conflict in the world and also represents a huge burden on the environment.
developing countries often lack the ready-made systems that require the necessary economic, environmental and social reforms, as well as labour law reforms, for multinational corporations to enter the local market.
moldova, like ukraine, is one of the countries for which the european union had already prepared an offer of visa facilitation in november last year, in view of their progress in reforming the institutional and political environment with a clear european perspective.
the main objective of this regulation is to put the business environment and the internal market back in motion by removing trade barriers arising from national contract law.
[nbsp ] the european investment bank has been the initiator of the joint activity use of project bonds to finance strategic trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications projects.
according to the information available, the eib has so far approved project bond support mainly for energy and transport projects.
the main objective of this convention is to ensure fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources and thereby contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity.
the european union is a dominant player in the use of genetic resources and a sustainable approach to this area is very important, both from the point of view of research centres and the industries that use them.
the environment committee even unanimously rejected the commission's proposal.
it is clear that the commission has failed to convince and allay the concerns of citizens and small farmers about the negative impact of this proposal on the agricultural sector, in particular on those producers who strive to grow quality and healthy food and who also care about biodiversity and environmental protection in europe.
in many respects, it fails to meet its stated objectives, does not take into account the specificities of the member states, the needs of producers and consumers, and does not ensure sufficient environmental protection.
- the european union is a dominant player in the use of genetic resources and a sustainable approach to this area is very important, both from the point of view of research centres and the industries that use them.
the rules that have been created serve to protect and preserve biodiversity.
these requirements shall ensure a sufficient level of safety and environmental standards.
the european investment bank should in future review its own resources policy and actively seek out projects that could be supported, thus promoting projects and sustainable development in the member states of the european union.
in the future, it will be very important to encourage growers to join producer organisations, thereby supporting the bargaining power of the sector and contributing to increased investment that will help innovation, research and climate improvement.
the european union has made a strong commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels.
emissions of all greenhouse gases are declining, but fluorinated gases have increased by 60%.
various sustainable alternatives are available almost today, and almost all new fluoride-based equipment can be replaced by other options.
the current phase-out schedule should be tightened to ensure a feasible and cost-effective transition to sustainable alternatives.
further research and development can not only provide new impetus but also ensure sustainable growth and innovation.
imports of similar products from thailand must be subject to very strict controls in the interests of sustainable development in the european fisheries sector.
the european union will also require thailand, within the framework of the agreement, to promote and respect internationally recognised labour standards, including standards prohibiting child labour, combating illegal and unreported fishing and enhancing environmental protection.
many countries have now signed action plans whose main objective is to end the recruitment of minors into armed forces, which results in the return of millions of children to their natural environment and the prosecution of the perpetrators.
with more than 2 million flights crossing the european skies every quarter and airspace being almost fully occupied, it is of the utmost importance that it is used as efficiently as possible, taking into account financial and environmental aspects.
copernicus is the successor to gmes, which provides important environmental information through earth observation using satellites and other advanced technology, and tracks natural or man-made disasters such as forest fires.
the convention covers the construction, operation and preparation of ships in preparation for their sustainable recycling, without compromising ship safety and operational efficiency.
building critical infrastructure is vital to sustain and preserve economic and social activities in the fields of energy, transport, banking, infrastructure, financial markets and health.
- i come from a country of communist experiment and i know that while common property deprives people of the desire to enrich the environment in which they live, private property motivates people.
policy coherence has become the european union's global policy tool for development and sustainable growth.
the european parliament seeks to improve the level of environmental protection and public health through innovation in the automotive industry, while at the same time increasing road safety in the european union.
noise caused by motor vehicles or other types of vehicles is one of the most widespread environmental problems in the eu.
in order to monitor and analyse in detail the progress and quality of life of people in the world, the european union has integrated environmental accounting into its programme since 2003. the european commission therefore adopted a regulation in 2011 introducing the first three modules, namely air emissions accounts, environmental taxes and material flow accounts.
the european commission and national authorities should make the widest possible use of environmental accounts data in the future, which will help to better define the european union's priorities, such as green growth and more efficient use of resources.
the european union is currently facing many security challenges and a growing struggle for energy and resource security.
and the second thing is actually reducing co2 and improving the environment, and a science and research base that would be dedicated to that could be an opportunity for jobs in europe again.
from this quantification it is clear that the material possibilities of interest groups or lobby groups can seriously distort our democratic environment.
only precise rules defining the scope for proper communication between the representatives of the european union and interest groups can contribute to eliminating the risk of distortion of the democratic environment in the union.
these are mainly the four major sectors that have been liberalised in recent years and largely integrated into the internal market: energy, telecommunications, transport and postal services.
this will not only stimulate economic growth, but also strengthen the competitiveness of european industry and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport.
our long-term objectives must include decarbonising the transport sector, where more than 90% of the energy used comes from oil, of which more than 84% is imported oil.
a sound policy framework with binding targets is therefore essential for the successful deployment of infrastructure capable of meeting the energy needs of all modes of transport.
these trucks pose a threat not only to road users but also to the environment, given the amount of co2 emissions they emit when transporting oversized cargo.
our efforts should be directed towards the preparation of legislation aimed at reducing emissions, for example by improving the aerodynamic shape of vehicle cabs.
real sustainable solutions are based on promoting the natural family across all policies.
the basic pension schemes are still largely linked to the 'pay as you go' system, the sustainability of which is in doubt due to demographic developments.
the development and harmonisation of european standards for pension schemes is a particularly complex and demanding task, also because of the very different legal environment.
it must be stopped by direct and strict sanctions, by a rapid and radical change in energy policy, but, colleagues, the european union, let us realise this, has also become a gravitational force attracting the countries of the balkans, eastern europe, the european caucasus.
the average european uses around 200 plastic bags a year, with almost 90% of them ending up in waste after a single use.
such practices are not only harmful to the environment, due to the large amounts of waste and pollutants that they release into the environment, including water, but also highly inefficient in terms of resource use.
as the recyclability of plastic carrier bags is very low, it is necessary to encourage operators to avoid waste and to favour more environmentally friendly substitutes.
only 6.6 percent of plastic bags are recycled, and they can last hundreds of years in the environment.
however, given the burden that such waste places on the environment and our seas, it seems logical to me to establish basic rules for reducing its consumption at european level.
in writing - i supported the proposal to reduce the consumption of lightweight plastics, because i consider their huge single use to be a source of threat to the quality of the environment, but also to the aesthetics of the space in which we live.
plastic bags are an environmental burden and should not be provided free of charge.
for the efd group with the increasing amount of waste produced by our society, the amount of hazardous waste that is illegally exported to third countries is also increasing.
according to available studies and analyses, organised criminal groups are linked to the waste management sector, generating substantial profits from the illegal transfer of waste.
the ever-growing illegal black market in waste is mainly due to the poorly organised structure of waste management mechanisms, which allows fraudsters to get rich on the significantly lower costs of waste treatment, especially in developing countries.
we therefore need to radically improve our approach to waste disposal organisation, improve waste movement records and strengthen control mechanisms so as to significantly reduce the space and illegal waste management practices as recommended in the report presented.
in order to avoid further escalation of tensions, concrete measures against russian companies and their subsidiaries, in particular in the energy sector, as well as against russian investments and assets in the eu, should also be considered.
the ukrainian crisis and the eu's energy independence problems should not be forgotten.
i also welcome the promotion theme of expo 2015 in milan, 'food for the planet, energy for life', and the emphasis on food policy, food labelling and food chain management and nutrition.
i regret that europe has not yet been able to move forward as a united front on energy security.
our disunity gives russia an opportunity to use energy as a political weapon.
the entrepreneurial environment creates more jobs where young people can apply themselves and where they can use their experience and ideas.
here too we see that the high energy dependence of slovakia and other new eu member states on russian gas is not only an economic but also a political problem that we must tackle together.
i would therefore like the commission to present an analysis of the business environment with regard to family businesses and to propose legislation to facilitate the setting up of family businesses and to take account of their specific problems.
but we also believe that rather than spending millions of euros on temporary subsidised jobs, which do not solve the problem but only delay it, we need to better target the education of young people and improve the business environment.
i have to say, madam president, climate goals are important, without question.
climate objectives are in direct conflict with competitiveness.
the eu should perhaps pause on climate targets and focus on the unemployed.
for example, preference is given to funding young people's places, but the long-term sustainability of the jobs thus created is often secondary.
the root of the problem is the lack of competitiveness of european economies, which continues to be undermined by excessive climate targets and unnecessarily high social protection and other standards.
as long as the eu sets itself conflicting goals, for example climate goals versus increasing industrial production, jobs will disappear.
it is also crucial for the eu economy to maintain and promote a balanced and sustainable strategy for growth and jobs.
we often talk about the expenditure side, but i consider the revenue side of the budget to be even more important, and it can only work if the environment for job creation is functioning.
despite the fact that the juncker commission is not an ideal composition - for example, there is no commissioner specifically concerned with the protection of the rights of historical national minorities - i do see a chance for the new commission to give the union new energy.
during the hearings, individual commissioners made it clear that, although their appointments were political, they were nevertheless able to guarantee the professional functioning of their commissions and that they knew the challenges ahead of us in order to reduce unemployment and poverty, kick-start economic growth, ensure energy security and self-sufficiency, protect the uniqueness of europe's natural resources, fauna and flora, but also to eliminate war conflicts in europe and the world.
similarly, much of it goes to the european funds, which are being stolen and distorting the business environment.
at first sight, it seems logical that member states, in an effort to save budgets and reduce deficits, are proposing substantial cuts in the draft budget for 2015. however, on closer inspection, many of these proposals concern mainly key areas such as innovation, research, infrastructure, support for smes and energy.
in particular, energy security cannot be achieved without increased investment in energy infrastructure, energy efficiency, interconnections and renewable energy generation.
one such instrument is the large and integrated market, with key sectors being financial services, transport, energy and digital.
it is therefore necessary to continue with thorough, balanced and socially sustainable structural reforms.
support for the unemployed who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation is financed by taxes from all other employees, or companies, which consequently have less money left to create sustainable jobs.
for a just and sustainable solution in the region, it is essential to establish an international commission of inquiry to investigate all allegations by the parties to the conflict and draw criminal conclusions from them.
a sustainable environment has not been achieved.
if the council is sincere, if it wants jobs and smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, it must respect the rules on economic governance and budgetary discipline and deliver on its commitments.
it is therefore in our interest to promote the single market, sustainable and inclusive growth and to focus on job creation.
like many other colleagues in the european parliament, i support an ambitious approach that would prioritise the protection of human rights, the eradication of poverty and sustainable development.
as global problems such as poverty, hunger, lack of access to quality healthcare, poor education, high unemployment, especially among young people, gender inequality, environmental degradation persist, it is essential to find new solutions for development.
i advocate that the european union actively engages in addressing these problems and encourages the involvement of other countries in activities aimed at ensuring sustainable development on earth.
the biggest cause is the mismatch of the education system with the working environment and the requirements of the labour market.
climate change is threatening the entire planet.
i supported the resolution because the urgency of the need to act to address the global climate crisis is very acute.
i therefore expect the new commission to take a more active stance on tackling the global climate crisis and to make clear that climate change is one of the most important strategic priorities.
the european union should be a leader in international agreements and a unifier of the positions of the various international institutions on the adoption of concrete global action to combat climate change.
the cop 20 conference of the parties to the un framework convention on climate change will be held in lima, peru, from 1 to 12 december.
it is of the utmost importance to the european parliament that the conference in question makes substantial progress in defining the main points of the forthcoming climate agreement, which should be concluded in 2015. the main objective is to increase global climate ambition over the next five years, in particular by increasing funding to reach the target of usd 100 billion per year by 2020. the planned lima conference will be key to the establishment of an ambitious and legally binding international agreement to be signed in paris next year, setting out climate action beyond 2020.
in writing.
already, current climate targets and other eu environmental policies are driving many companies out of europe, to countries such as china or india, where environmental standards are much lower.
as a result, the eu economy and employment suffer, but overall emissions may rise.
in such a situation, efforts to further enforce climate goals are irresponsible, as they will further reinforce the aforementioned trend.
it raises taxes, it degrades the business environment, the european union is constantly inventing new regulations and setting unrealistic climate targets.
if the european union is to really tackle growth and really reduce unemployment, it has to bankrupt banks and fail-safe states, it has to reduce regulation, it has to stop overprotecting the environment, it has to stop over-targeting climate change, and it has to systematically improve the business environment.
and just one sentence: i believe what the commissioner said at the hearing, that we will look more at poverty, we will look more at hunger than we will look at climate change.
governments in developing countries must create an environment for better child nutrition and care.
the european union aims to substantially reduce the number of malnourished children by 2025, which it wants to achieve through the coordination of policies in the fields of rural development, sustainable agriculture, public health, hygiene, social security and education.
the current observer status has rather been a disadvantage and has not allowed the union to fully implement the objectives of environmental policy.
however, the accession of the european union to cites will ensure greater transparency of the legal environment and the position of the european union vis-à-vis third parties to the convention.
i very much welcome the european union's accession to cites, because i expect a united stance in protecting endangered species and biodiversity throughout the european union, which is our moral responsibility.
it is essential that life-cycle greenhouse gas emissions from all fuels are limited and reduced and that the objectives of the strategy 2020 are met.
the objectives of the climate package should not be undermined.
this directive is important not only for those of us who are concerned with the environment and its protection, but also for the generations that come after us.
demographic, socioeconomic challenges, but also environmental issues are very closely linked to this theme.
i voted in favour of the eu's accession to the convention because i consider it to be the logical outcome of the eu's efforts in the field of environmental protection, which is within its competence.
in addition, the agreement in question also covers cooperation in important areas such as research and development, education, social policy, the environment, consumer protection and, last but not least, culture.
only by working effectively can we meet the greatest challenges of the 21st century - climate change, energy security risks, tax evasion, economic globalisation or threats to our security.
until the european union embraces this, the european union budget will continue to waste taxpayers' money massively and will continue to distort the market significantly.
the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures on the environment and the environment protection.
in writing the revised fuel quality directive requires suppliers to submit a report on greenhouse gas emissions every year.
by 31 december 2020, the greenhouse gas intensity reduction target is set at at least 6% in each member state.
in its impact assessment, the european commission considered a range of options beyond the basic reporting approach based on average standard values of greenhouse gas emissions by fuel type.
however, the breakdown of fuels from unconventional sources has not taken into account the latest developments in infrastructure and the oil market, and it is therefore important that the european commission further examine the method used to calculate the level of emissions and take into account the projected increase in the use of fuels with high greenhouse gas intensity and fuels derived from new raw materials.
that is why i voted against the environment committee's proposal and i am glad that it was rejected.
i support the re-launch of direct peace negotiations between israelis and palestinians, which requires a climate of trust and serious steps on both sides.
in addition, the commission should submit a report on the main social, economic and environmental problems of the eu steel industry as soon as possible, so that we can respond flexibly with initiatives to support the sector in the eu.