carbon capture and storage technology is expensive and complex.
but the global energy and global warming trends are a clear signal that it is important to store the most important greenhouse gas instead of releasing it into the atmosphere.
but that's not enough, that's not enough for at least two reasons: the first reason is that co2 is produced in other sectors, not just in energy, like steel, cement, chemical industries, and we can't just walk away from those industries.
the second reason we are developing this technology is because we want to reduce global warming, and in the european union we can only influence our own energy mix.
the international energy agency predicts that fossil fuels will make up 75% of the global energy mix by 2030. and i think the problem is the greens' view that, say, this technology would be used for some industrial sectors but not for energy.
we want rational solutions and we want to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, but we don't want to increase and artificially increase subsidies for renewable energy.
the most powerful way to reduce fossil fuel emissions is to develop the right technology, and so while i am not advocating the use of fossil fuels, i join the call for more effective policies to use co2 capture and storage technology.
and of course, storing co2 is not sustainable, so i think we should put a lot more emphasis on developing technologies to use co2.
but i also believe that all the money we raise under the ets should be spent on the development of sustainable technologies.
the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
− i welcome the fact that the european union is planning to reduce co2 emissions from new light commercial vehicles by almost 30% measured in g/km by 2020. the relevant legislation also provides for the introduction of more reliable test procedures for measuring co2 emissions.
the fight for a better environment is the fight for better health, and i always welcome decisions in that direction.
unfortunately, it also generates a huge amount of waste.
according to ec data, this waste amounted to as much as 25 m tonnes in 2008. these are harmful to the environment, particularly the long-term decomposition of plastic and its deposition in the seas.
i therefore support the ep's efforts to create an appropriate environment to encourage the reuse of plastics.
− i supported binding targets in european legislation for the collection, sorting and recycling of up to 80% of plastic waste.
the waste management sector can provide increased turnover and job creation.
for these reasons, i propose that we support the position of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, which has supported the concept of an ingredient rather than the concept of a constituent part of honey, as far as flowering powders from genetically modified organisms are concerned.
i believe that what is needed at this moment are measures such as the completion of the internal market in electricity, gas and telecommunications, increased investment in research and development, then meeting the requirements of the european semester, creating a stable regulatory environment with less administrative burdens.
in doing so, we must respond to the major societal challenges that have been clearly identified so far, namely demography and population ageing, climate change and resource efficiency.
in addition to the high energy prices, at least compared to america, those are still too high and stifle competitiveness.
so i am in favour of following the judgment of the european court of justice in this case too, which was clear and ... no, that is a point of order ... absolutely a point of order, because it is a question of avoiding the two criteria, as the environment committee, envi, has avoided, and i think that in this respect we should support the line of the court of justice and vote for amendment no 9d.
despite the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), which supported the concept of ingredients and consequently clear labelling when it comes to gmo flowering powders at the first reading, the opposite position prevailed in the crucial vote by a narrow majority of 26 votes (out of 766 meps).
further work is also needed on media freedom and the quality of the business environment.
pollution and the lack of clean water have put people at risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases.
i welcome the convergence of member states' policies on investing in the development of new and better use of existing technologies, on the efficient use of public funds and on the increase of private sector funds for research and innovation activities and on the increase of the use of renewable energy sources.
- the european steel industry is at risk, and i support the focus of european policy on measures that will enable the eu to maintain its leadership in sustainable production.
the general principle behind policy-making is simple: we must give equal attention to job creation and competitiveness as we do to the environment.
legislation that sets high environmental standards while allowing for a number of exemptions, subsidies and aids is bad.
this is the case, for example, of the effects of the climate and energy package on the european electricity system, which is becoming black-green (coal and renewables), even though the objective was quite different.
we remain the leader in environmental legislation, but with standards only a step or two ahead of the competition.
i believe that policy measures should be directed primarily at creating an efficient environment for the operation of industry (logistics, transport, financial system, energy), promoting research and development, creating a functioning internal energy market with competitive prices, promoting recycling, and achieving reciprocity in relation to third countries.
i would like to ask mr eickhout how he thinks the internal market can work if certain energy sources are heavily subsidised and others are not.
you are committed to a strong renewable energy target, led by the european union.
so i ask you, do you know what's happening in the energy sector, that our energy mix is green and black, which means we have more renewables and more coal.
is this what we wanted with the energy-climate package?
i'm all for action on climate change and for the energy market, but something's wrong now.
we have energy prices, for example, that are several times higher than anywhere else in the world, and they are actually indirectly politically determined.
investments in the energy system are again politically determined through various subsidies.
there's more and more coal in our energy mix.
that's why i'm advocating for one goal to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
at the same time, i believe that those sectors that are included in the ets, which is a market mechanism, cannot also receive subsidies at the same time, because that is, of course, how they distort the carbon price.
it also proposed a 27% target for renewable energy sources and said this was in line with the 25% energy efficiency target.
the envi committee and itre proposed targets of 40% for co2, for energy efficiency and 30% for renewable energy sources.
this is not at all consistent, and if we were to achieve the renewable energy and energy efficiency targets, of course, that would mean a lot more in terms of greenhouse gas emissions.
this will help to reduce food waste.
however, these investments should be directed primarily towards knowledge and technology that provide real and long-term benefits for society and the environment.
the potential of knowledge-based solutions as well as classical breeding is far from being fully exploited: we need to better understand ecological systems, exploit the potential of plant genetic resources, discover more about efficient rotation and diversified farming, and improve methods for biological protection of plants.
i also think that this report is not enough on the biodiversity side.
the programme is part of the europe 2020 strategy and is intended to stimulate innovation in healthcare, ensure its sustainability and improve the health of european citizens.
- i agree with the rapporteur that good business practices and social and environmental responsibility are very important in extractive activities.
the report says that a comprehensive strategy is needed to address, among other challenges, how to tackle the root causes of blood mines, how best to manage the environmental, social and human rights impacts of mining, and how to better support and integrate artisanal and small-scale mining activities.
internally, political divisions and sectarian tensions between the sunni and the shi’a communities have significantly contributed to the worsening security environment.
for the period 2014-2020, the european union’s focus will be on strengthening the rule of law, education and energy.
the overall package aims to ensure that the european union takes a leading role in current and future international negotiations and, with a progressive approach, rapidly achieves the ambitious global multilateral mechanism that it has set out to address the challenges of biodiversity conservation and sustainable use.
the regulation on the abandonment of fluorinated greenhouse gases is the regulation that will certainly benefit innovation in business, development, and of course it will also benefit health and our planet.
it would be interesting to see a survey and a study on how many elementary school students today know how negatively fluoridated gases affect our environment.
in slovenia, the number of employees in industry also decreased by as much as 17% between 2004 and 2012. i therefore expect the leaders to outline the guidelines for creating a more competitive environment.
this includes the development of programmes to draw on cohesion funds, the creation of a functioning energy market by reducing energy prices, increased investment in research and development projects, education close to the needs of the economy, the development of appropriate infrastructure such as energy and telecommunications.
the debate on the new energy and climate package covering policies up to 2030 will show how serious the leaders are about strengthening the industry.
- i support the adoption of new rules on the control of the impact of human activities on the environment.
it is important that despite the economic crisis, we have managed to take measures that simultaneously improve the protection of our precious natural environment, reduce administrative barriers and allow for faster environmental project placement.
the new rules will reduce both the economic and social costs of all activities that interfere with the natural environment.
economic, as member states will now only be required to carry out assessments in cases of major environmental impact.
plastic bags are a growing threat to the environment.
for someone to use a plastic bag for a few minutes, it will remain in the environment for centuries, since plastic is characterized by a slow rate of degradation.
and it's not just a visual problem, but microscopic particles are harmful to the environment.
that's why i support measures to reduce plastic bag waste.
i think that the european parliament's proposal is ambitious enough to protect the environment, but at the same time it leaves enough room for the member states to decide on the best and most effective measures.
the provisions of this agreement will lay a solid foundation for future deeper and broader cooperation in the areas of political dialogue, human rights, security issues such as crisis management, non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism; global issues such as climate change, development, humanitarian aid, civil protection, the environment; economic issues such as industrial cooperation, customs duties, taxation, tourism and competitiveness; sectoral cooperation: energy, transport, agriculture, fisheries and maritime; social policy, where i am particularly pleased to have included the areas of health and consumer protection; cooperation in the areas of justice, freedom and security: cybercrime, combating international crime, migration and asylum; and cooperation in the areas of research, space, innovation and culture and education.
we are not only speaking about promoting shared values on human rights, democracy and the rule of law, but also about working together on very concrete challenges such as how to cope with an ageing society, create new sources of sustainable energy and develop synergies where we see opportunities for cooperation avoiding parallel development.
it is important, however, that europe also incorporates specific interests into the agreement, such as high standards of personal data protection, social solidarity, healthy food and the environment.
if the european union during barossa ii was more oriented towards consolidating the union internally, this juncker mandate will be about positioning ourselves in the international environment.
one of the priorities must also be the energy independence from russia.
in order to become more independent and self-reliant, the republic of moldova needs to transform its existing energy plan.
it needs to focus on more efficient and renewable energy sources, as this is the only way to become energy independent from russia, which is their largest supplier in this area.
and that is why i am calling on you, honourable members, to vote against the epp proposal to delete the fourth amendment tabled by the greens/efa on energy, which was adopted by the afet committee.
and it is this amendment that is encouraging moldova to reduce its energy dependence on russia, which is also the wish of the european union.
they can expect more consumer rights, safer food, better health care, and with more energy diversity and savings, lower heating costs.
in order to become more independent and self-sufficient, the government of the republic of moldova needs to revamp the existing energy plan.
it is important that it focuses on more efficient and renewable energy sources.
only then will it become energy independent from russia, which is their largest supplier in this area.
the accelerated absorption of cohesion funds, especially in the area of environmental and transport infrastructure, gave a boost to the construction sector in 2013 and 2014, which, for example, in the republic of slovenia, contributed significantly to the country's exit from recession.
after europe started to move clocks around in winter and summer time a few decades ago, the main purpose of this measure was primarily to save energy.
energy savings have also been found, as what is saved in the evening is used up in the morning, so many countries in asia, africa and south america have stopped this summertime switchover.
eradicating poverty, combating inequalities, protecting human rights and sustainable health systems are some of the key objectives listed in the resolution on the post-2015 development framework.
the international conference in lima, peru, in december should prepare global partners to forge an ambitious agreement in paris next year to help the world meet its goal of keeping global warming below 2°c.
meps recalled in the resolution the commitment of the ec and member state leaders to increase funding for the un green climate fund to provide it with $100 billion a year by 2020. as the resolution of the committee on the environment states, the agreement should contain clear mitigation, adaptation and implementation measures to achieve a strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% by 2050.
in writing.
the climate conference in lima, 1-12 december 2014, is a milestone in the negotiations for a new international climate agreement.
in that resolution, the european parliament called for a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions by 2050. the fact is that we are witnessing climate change that has been occurring for decades and is having a major negative impact on nature and people around the world.
if we continue to release greenhouse gases into the air, the atmosphere will warm, causing changes in the land, oceans and atmosphere in all regions of the world.
for this reason, work on renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and emission reductions is needed.
the climate has a major impact on people's quality of life, which is why i supported the resolution calling for improvements to the current situation.
the latter must focus on sustainable agriculture and locally processed food.
we have, of course, damaged and continue to damage the environment to such an extent that climate change is bringing more and more extreme weather events such as drought, hail, ice, and this is confirmed by this year's floods, which have affected slovenia severely.
mr juncker, i would like to congratulate you on your fresh ideas and fresh energy.
the most damaging damage was to transport and energy infrastructure.