the transport sector is one of the few sectors in the eu that is experiencing rapidly increasing emissions.
to achieve the goal of limiting climate change, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced substantially, and therefore, of course, emissions from road transport are also crucial.
in view of the climate package we voted on in the environment and industry committees last week, it is important that the commission now live up to the long-term target for light trucks as they have committed to, namely to reach the target for light commercial vehicles with emission limits between 105 and 120 grams of co2 per kilometre by 2025. it will be crucial if we are to achieve our climate ambitions.
we had a fantastic opportunity this time to vote for rules that save money, improve the economy, increase our export opportunities and benefit european businesses and the environment at the same time.
but in this case, only the commission can save us, because we need a new test cycle and i really want you to put forward a proposal where the emission levels for 2025 are maybe 105 grams, then we will still have a realistic target that helps the environment and the economy.
but this is a lost opportunity for the environment, for the economy, for jobs, which is sad.
since 2011, when we made this decision in this chamber, we have had a new ipcs report from the united nations that makes even clearer the responsibility of humans and even clearer how much we have increased carbon dioxide emissions since pre-industrial times.
we set such low targets, even though we already knew about climate change and the need to reduce fuel consumption.
there is no contradiction between crisis and jobs and the environment.
work and environment can go hand in hand.
on the contrary, we could use the crisis to invest in investments and innovations that are ecologically sustainable, that can combine work with action and that are good for the environment and our ecosystems.
so instead, the crisis should be used to find these solutions, and that's why environment and jobs go hand in hand.
we agree that the test cycle must reflect the value of energy savings in efficient driving.
you can count everything from poaching to illegal logging and illegal export of wildlife to the environmental crimes we're discussing here.
the commission opened a consultation on the future of european copyright in december last year, and a modernisation of copyright will be as important for new and innovative services in the digital environment as it will be for consumers.
i hope that the future of copyright law will also be closely integrated into any consumer welfare programme that the european institutions engage with in the upcoming six years so that we can ensure a sustainable and inclusive digital environment for everyone in europe.
better information will also make it possible to compare not only prices but also quality and sustainability.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion.
i would like to congratulate marc tarabella on behalf of the committee on the environment on a very good job.
this can make it clear to everyone that the directive not only allows but also encourages the setting of high environmental and sustainability standards in procurement.
used correctly, this can bring significant improvements for the environment and also for all companies that want to be at the forefront of environmental issues.
but now it is possible to impose social and environmental requirements and to require that collective agreements be respected, and it is possible to exclude companies that have committed criminal acts or have not paid taxes or social security contributions.
however, i am critical of the inclusion of social and environmental considerations, for example, and not even quality, as a minimum requirement, as mentioned in paragraph 15 (c).
now municipalities can buy locally produced food without hindering the common market, thanks to sustainability requirements and production method.
we are talking about reindustrialising europe 'again' does not mean going back to an old industrial policy, but it is about renewing and modernising and putting research, innovation, sustainability, energy efficiency and resource efficiency at the heart of the new policy.
from my previous role as regional councillor and responsible for industrial policy in one of the regions of sweden, i have experience that industry representatives and trade unions look ahead and tackle the new challenges such as research, innovation and sustainability - that is where we succeed with competitiveness.
energy efficiency and renewable energy are part of the future.
these approaches are important in this report, because in the end we can never compete with low energy prices or low wages alone.
it is through research, innovation and combined competitiveness and sustainability that europe can respond to the global challenges of the future.
it means investing in infrastructure, it means smart and strong trade agreements, it means investing more in even higher education and labour market training and it also includes a climate and sustainability mindset that is the competitive tool of our time in the marketplace.
yes, because it is the world's most energy-efficient coal sinter.
this proposal will make it easier to take environmental and social considerations into account.
this proposal will make it easier to take environmental and social considerations into account.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
we therefore welcome the resolution's call for the establishment of an eu action plan against environmental crime and for the eu to invest resources in nature conservation.
however, we would like to stress the important principle that eu action against environmental crime should not be financed by aid funds, the purpose of which should be poverty reduction.
we do not want to see a development where resources for environmental crime are prioritised at the expense of poverty reduction.
however, the initiative has been a disaster in terms of the working environment and the conditions of workers in general.
it is not just that everyone must have the right to a healthy and safe working environment.
we in europe must do more, not less, for the working environment.
i think that what herbert reul is calling for - what he calls ambitious and realistic climate action - is exactly what we have had and what we are now clearly going to scrap.
we decided to reduce co2 emissions by 20 percent by 2020 and set a binding target.
the same applies to the binding target for renewable energy.
renewable energy has also made progress.
in areas where we have not had a binding target, energy efficiency, it is lagging behind.
however, climate policy is extremely important and there are many positive comments on it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
you're destroying the climate policy that has been successful.
(blue card) there are results, also presented in documents available here in the european parliament, which show that energy efficiency is slowly progressing.
a large, a roaring majority of people from all party groups called for 40 percent energy efficiency by 2030. i wish we could get it in place.
and then things would happen that would affect not only climate policy, but also investment, modernity, jobs, growth.
that's what this is about, too, not that we're being beaten out, that we can't compete because we're climate savvy.
i will vote tomorrow for three ambitious climate policy objectives.
i did the same when we discussed the matter in the committee on industry and the environment.
i think that the most urgent thing is to have a clear objective in the field of renewable energy.
it is an opportunity for the green industry to develop and to see energy issues as part of the development of europe.
it is also an opportunity for small and innovative companies to develop in a sustainable way and to participate in the change in the energy situation in europe.
it is sometimes presented as if it were a problem with a clear target for renewable energy.
we need at least 60 percent reductions in emissions to have a realistic chance of achieving the goal that almost everyone here is committed to, namely the 2 degree target.
well, growth based on using more fossil fuels, importing gas, oil and uranium, when an increasing share of our income will be spent on importing energy!
look at the southern european countries, which have high net import costs for energy.
renewable energy and energy efficiency that's where our export market is, that's where the jobs are, that's where the future is.
if exceptions to the minimum tariff rule were to be introduced, we believe that this could be justified where countries are lacking in ratification of environmental agreements and ilo conventions.
i think that russia must accept all the rules of the world trade organisation and must also be open-minded regarding its energy policy.
so long as russia uses its energy policy as a means to influence other countries and other nations, and to undermine democracy in those nations, it will not derive the full benefit of the resources that it has, or the full benefit of the resources we have in europe.
- the christian democrats believe that it is reasonable to have three binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the share of renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency.
in sweden, almost 51% of energy production is already generated from renewable sources.
in poland, renewable energy sources account for 8%.
the overall picture suggests that when the allocation key is decided later this year, sweden will probably continue to have to bear a large reduction in emissions, even though we already have a high share of renewable energy sources.
that is why i voted in favour of a compromise proposal on two binding targets: at least 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and a combined target on renewable energy and efficiency, which the countries themselves decide to allocate.
climate is going to be the focus, and then the countries that emit the most carbon dioxide have to change their production.
it is rather that such should be prosecuted for bribery than that it should be the basis for the future eu emissions policy for cars.
the commission's own calculation shows that an ambitious policy in this area is profitable, both economically and for the environment and for europeans.
the only hope now is for the european commission to come forward with an ambitious proposal in 2015 to bring order back to climate policy.
i am glad that we are finally voting on this trialogue agreement, because in practice, as i said, it was ready last summer and should have been dealt with at the same time as we dealt with the emissions from light trucks.
but i'm glad we're now getting emissions targets for cars that should mean there's going to be some reduction in climate emissions.
i am also glad that we are getting test procedures which allow us to measure the actual emissions.
i think that these steps, which can certainly be criticised, but if we try to highlight the positive aspects, are also an important part of the european car industry's ability to defend its competitiveness when car manufacturers in other parts of the world compete to make cars that are climate-smart.
in this context, it is of the utmost importance that the commission keeps its promise to come back in 2015 with a long-term target for emissions reductions, and that the exemptions for luxury cars are also removed.
remember, one of these people is going to be part of a research team that solves the energy challenge of the future.
the left party is opposed to the transfer of more power to the eu and believes that the eu's neoliberal aid policy must be stopped and replaced by long-term solidarity solutions focusing on poverty reduction and gender equality, generous support for srhr, a climate policy in which the rich countries and multinational companies take responsibility, a strengthened framework for arms trade, a reform of the imf and the world bank, clearer global rules for foreign investment, debt write-offs and fair trade rules.
europe's railways need to be expanded, modernised, adapted to climate change and given more budgetary space.
i have always said that the financial and economic crisis should never lead to a health crisis in europe, so when the commission calls for better spending and also sometimes for corrective measures for economic situations which member states have found themselves in independently of the will of the commission, it is in favour of the sustainability of the health system.
our health systems, because of demographic trends in particular, are not sustainable unless they are reformed; but how the reform should take place is within the discretion of the member states.
we have set up a panel of experts within the commission to give advice on the sustainability of the health systems.
building the infrastructure of the future today is as critical as transport or energy networks are today.
but overall this is a great result, the best we could achieve in the financial climate, and i again thank the rapporteur and his shadows.
so that seems a useless waste of money by the commission.
such policies are definitely desirable with good networks and with good services, but the commission really needs to show much better strategic thinking and consistency with their previous policies if this is going to be a sustainable [word(s) missing as microphone cut out] organisations to work with and imposed on the member states.
it is the same with energy, with transport, with public procurement and retail.
- we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe.
a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
- we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe.
a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
- we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe.
a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
- we swedish social democrats are in favour of investing in rail transport for the sake of the environment and to make it easier and faster to travel by train in europe.
a functioning cohesive railway that is kept free from market experimentation is important both for employment and for reducing the climate impact in the eu.
there are no quantitative or qualitative studies showing that certification systems and legal rights covering seeds bring benefits to the market or to biodiversity.
ngos were particularly helpful regarding transparency and on social and environmental aspects, etc.
in accordance with the treaty, the eib should endeavour to support the objectives of the union’s development cooperation policy, such as by reducing poverty through inclusive growth and sustainable economy and environmental and social development.
in the period from 2014 to 2020, the eib is encouraged to continue pursuing its greener path, by strengthening its emissions performance standards and launching a public review of the climate impact of its lending portfolio.
the eib should also support investment projects in sustainable energy security and energy infrastructure, including transmission infrastructure, in particular interconnections that facilitate the integration of electricity from renewable sources.
he would also like to emphasise that investments in the field of renewable energy and better energy efficiency should be preferred to investments in fossil fuels.
financial agreements with individual promoters relating to eib operations should also include appropriate environmental, social, human rights and labour provisions.
just think: is it good or bad for europe to have a more stable environment in ukraine, in north africa, etc.?
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
digitalisation will mean economic, environmental and time savings for everyone.
overproduction and food waste are major environmental problems, and overconsumption at the individual level, especially of unhealthy food, imposes high costs on society and causes great suffering and premature death for many individuals.
overproduction and food waste are major environmental problems, and overconsumption at the individual level, especially of unhealthy food, imposes high costs on society and causes great suffering and premature death for many individuals.
- this report represents progress for the environment in several areas.
climate change is real.
consequently, ices has not been able to provide a value for sustainable msy this year.
we must be clear that we are now in a situation where ices has not been able to give reliable advice on sustainable fish mortality.
i hope that the commission will find it in itself to endorse this opportunity to cooperate with parliament and that we can all work towards a better and safer ict environment.
the climate crisis is the greatest challenge of our time.
greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced while avoiding an increase in the costs of european industry.
but more wind and other renewable energy sources will not be enough to cope with both climate and jobs.
energy policy is also security policy today.
- for us social democrats, it is a matter of course that the aviation sector should contribute to the joint work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
it is in line with eu decisions already taken and is based on the principle that those who cause environmental damage should share in the payment of the socioeconomic costs incurred.
it is important for us to be able to reach a global system to reduce aviation emissions.
we therefore believe that the eu should continue its own climate action on aviation, especially when it takes place in eu airspace.
we think it is desirable that the revenue from the ets be allocated to climate action, but at the same time we defend the principle that member states should decide on the distribution of the revenue themselves.
finally, we would also point out that the error rate estimated by the eu's auditors is usually not about waste or irregularities.
this created uncertainty and a shifting environment for financial operators.
i hope that in the coming negotiations, the best will be done to clarify this, so that the legislation we finally get also produces a good result for the environment throughout the eu, including in my own country.
this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective.
this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective.
this is a better deal than the last one from an environmental perspective.
it is important to address this waste of resources and environmental problem, partly by reducing the use of non-reusable plastic bags and partly by replacing plastic bags with environmentally friendly alternatives.
it is important to address this waste of resources and environmental problem, partly by reducing the use of non-reusable plastic bags and partly by replacing plastic bags with environmentally friendly alternatives.
the european maritime and fisheries fund that we voted on today was intended to support this reform towards sustainable fishing.
the european maritime and fisheries fund that we voted on today was intended to support this reform towards sustainable fishing.
the fact is, however, that we have problems with illegal waste disposal all over the eu.
instead of being properly managed, some of our waste is exported illegally, harming the environment and people, often children who handle our waste in poorer countries without knowledge or protection.
but all planning must be based on the assumption that we have functioning ecosystems and that any exploitation does not jeopardise our objective in the marine environment directive to achieve good environmental status.
i am therefore very disappointed that all the references to the marine environment directive and its objective of good environmental status which were in the commission's original proposal have disappeared altogether in the articles of the negotiated text.
but all planning must be based on the assumption that we have functioning ecosystems and that any exploitation does not jeopardise our objective in the marine environment directive to achieve good environmental status.
i am therefore very disappointed that all the references to the marine environment directive and its objective of good environmental status which were in the commission's original proposal have disappeared altogether in the articles of the negotiated text.
- we social democrats wholeheartedly support the objective of reducing the amount of plastic waste in the environment.
unfortunately, a major problem in europe today is that plastic bags are largely released into the environment instead of being properly managed.
we see its harmful effects first and foremost in our shared marine environment, where plastic waste has a huge negative impact on wildlife.
in addition, of course, there is a heavy responsibility on the swedish government to implement the forthcoming directive in a way that results in the greatest possible environmental benefit.
i think we need a strong europe in order to face the challenges of russia’s threat to european borders, tackle global climate change and ensure that we can have a strong european economy.
over 100 meetings with business lobbyists and just a handful with environmental, trade union and consumer organisations, it shows who is in the driver's seat of these projects and of these negotiations.
the current ttip drafts threaten the environment, trade union rights, public health and, not least, democracy.
this means that they are first destroyed on board the cape ray on the high seas and then transported to a number of countries with special capacity to incinerate the toxic waste.
the weapons must be destroyed, the waste must be destroyed, and without destroying the mediterranean.
the 348 articles include the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sex or disability, the right to complain, the right of children and young people to a safe environment, education, information, personal privacy, etc.
a central part of the agreement is a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), with far-reaching implications for the economy as well as for social, environmental and food standards.
when we look at the future, the consequences of a warming planet with competition for water and for farmland, with rising sea levels, we will see climate refugees and there will be enormous economic and human consequences.
i would like to say to the council that we all know that the only way of making renewable energy and smart energy savings lucrative for the industry is if the eu sets binding targets that will drive global innovation and investment in this direction, so we can eventually leave the cheap and dirty coal in the ground.
we know there is enough free and eternally renewable energy around for us to build a new clean society that we can be proud of and that is what i want to be able to tell my children and grandchildren that we did.
now to emit one tonne of co2 costs only eur 5 and to try to put it in the ground with carbon capture and storage costs eur 40; by that i mean it is too cheap to put this co2 in the air.
because there actually are countries that are succeeding in having economic growth and strong industry and a strong economy, and still lowering their emissions from fossil fuels.
in sweden we currently have more than 50% of renewables in our energy system.
but, in order to achieve that, you need to have a government that is actually able to do it, and if industries are moving away from your country it is not because you have a strong scheme for saving the climate, it is probably because you have a too weak one that is not forcing your industries to be better at doing the right thing.
it feels good to talk in swedish, because i know that the swedish people want us to take a strong stand on climate.
however, whatever happens at next week's meeting, i would also like to point out to this parliament that we have an important role to play in making sure that the climate and energy package is tough, that it contains three binding targets, that we take responsibility for both emissions, for renewable energy and for energy efficiency improvements.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
i want to address the prime ministers of europe who are now meeting to agree on the goals of climate policy.
because climate change is real, and we all know the cause, and we all know why.
look at the countries that have invested in renewable fuels.
they have lower energy prices.
show that you are worthy leaders and take the responsibility necessary to meet the climate challenge.
fourthly, the ambitions, the targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, are more important than the number of very many different targets.
we need to focus and give priority to reducing carbon dioxide emissions, not try to steer the member states to where they can do things better.
we have seen for more than a decade that russia is a threat to european energy security, blocking energy distribution and using its energy resources for political blackmail.
but we cannot accept that more of the taxpayers' money is spent on agricultural subsidies and huge subsidy schemes to support ageing and climate-damaging industries.
it results in overproduction and negative effects on the environment, climate and livestock.
- the eu needs a modern budget that responds to the real needs of today and the major challenges of tomorrow, such as youth unemployment, refugee flows and climate change.
but we cannot accept that more of the taxpayers' money is spent on agricultural subsidies and huge subsidy schemes to support ageing and climate-damaging industries.
the left party and the gue/ngl opposed the original eu-republic of korea agreement, inter alia on the grounds of environmental and consumer interests.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
the association agreement contains various policy measures which could have major implications for economic, environmental and social conditions in moldova.
we are of course in favour of investments in infrastructure, research and sustainable climate, but we must also invest in education and in increasing the participation of women in the labour market.
the benefits of growth must be spread throughout society to be sustainable.
madam president, in march 2000, eu heads of state and government agreed on an ambitious goal: making the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world; the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-driven economy by 2010, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion – and where are we now?
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
having strong common rules for a good working environment also means ensuring a level playing field.
everyone should have the right to the same good working environment, regardless of the company in which they work.
support systems are needed, new risk management tools for small businesses to facilitate osh work and strengthened trade union training that can make aware workers even better at handling difficult work environments and also contribute to real simplification real simplification, without worsening the working environment.
it's as if you think we can hide the future costs of climate change.
it's like you think there's no cost to not taking climate action.
we know that the costs we pay in life today - people dying prematurely from pollution - are costs that companies are not paying because they are putting it on society.
i can see from the list of speakers here that one after another will soon be saying that it is not possible to combat the climate problem without driving companies out of europe.
we can see from a swedish perspective that for 20 years we have had growing growth while we have had decreasing climate emissions.
i wish that those who are most affected by climate change also had the biggest megaphones and the best opportunities to influence policy.
i and my group will defend the european parliament's position of having three ambitious and binding targets for renewable energy, reducing climate emissions and energy efficiency.
it is a weak policy for europe's environment, for the world and for jobs, which does not take responsibility for the most vulnerable in the world.
the lima meeting is important for the climate.
- the eu has an important role to play as a driving force in the un climate negotiations.
the eu accounts for only 10% of global emissions, and to tackle climate change we need to get the rest of the world to take its share of the responsibility.
we have called for an ambitious, realistic and cost-effective eu climate policy.
the social democrats and the green party have pursued a climate policy of appeal without any anchoring in european economic reality, which no country has supported.
in doing so, the new swedish government undermined the possibility of pushing for a more ambitious european climate policy.
the social democrats and the environment party then pushed sweden, together with the sweden democrats, to support climate targets that were less ambitious than what we demanded.
we deplore this, as it weakens the eu's voice in international negotiations and reduces the possibility of agreeing on an ambitious global climate agreement.
i think we should be putting more time and energy into this kind of concrete work instead of this kind of rather pointless debate in the plenary.
the commission has been forced to pay an unreasonable share of energy costs to finance renewable energy.
i'm not against renewable energy, but it has to be done in a fair way.
what we will probably hear tomorrow is that several items of great importance for the environment will be withdrawn.
i do hope, mr commissioner, that i am wrong and that you will prove me wrong by doing better for the environment and for the future.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
investments for the benefit of society are needed in education, health and care, but also in infrastructure, railways, public transport, energy-efficient housing and sustainable energy systems.
but that trust was breached when i heard that the air quality package, the waste package and the circular economy would be withdrawn.
but i do hope that the aim of the commission is not to strive for a black belt in abolishing environmental policies.
eu trade agreements do not create fair trade and their effects run counter to the eu's fundamental principles of aid and development, and in many cases environmental considerations.
- the eu needs a modern industrial policy, comprising measures to promote and provide incentives for a sustainable and competitive industry of the future.
however, we believe that the way to ensure that the european steel industry remains competitive in a global context is through investments in, for example, research and innovation, simplification of regulations, incentives to switch to cleaner technologies and energy efficiency - not through protectionism and state aid.
moreover, aid money is to be used for this, and i would call that nothing but a waste.
parties to trade agreements must respect their commitments both in terms of human rights and a sustainable and consistent fisheries policy.