we need your help to achieve a peaceful european order and we need your help to make europe a social and ecological space.
a european democracy needs a constitutional process, a peaceful order requires the courage to take its own security into its own hands and the social and ecological space requires that politics emancipate itself from an increasingly aggressive neoliberal ideology.
as regards your programme, which is linked to the idea of glasnost, which does not want a 'small' reform of the institutions but rather a thoroughgoing reform, which aims at the creation of sustainable jobs through substantial liberalisation, which attaches great value to subsidiarity, which considers it essential to provide adequate responses to demographic change in europe; i agree with him.
we need sustainable solutions.
in this way, the outline of the face of fundamental rights could inject new energy into the body of europe as a whole.
they thus show that they are aware of the new environment in which the commission will have to work.
they want healthy and safe food, produced and processed with respect for the environment and animals.
in romania, the external economic relations environment has deteriorated further following the kosovo conflict.
there is no doubt that strengthening civil society is essential but it is unthinkable without a stable economic environment.
the gulf is hardly less deep on important issues of economic, social and environmental law - to name just a few important areas.
shared prosperity, a healthy environment and health at work are perhaps the best investments for the future.
at present, our daily emissions of co2 are equivalent to what was released into the atmosphere over the previous three thousand years.
in the context of the current agreement as reflected in the common position, the requirement in amendment no 5 to draw up a european directive setting legally binding targets for renewable energy is the minimum condition for this document to be taken seriously in any form.
- (de) mr president, in recent years, when we have been talking about the use of atomic energy to produce our electricity, we have always stressed the dangers of the reactors in the east built on the russian model.
the legal environment for these companies needs to be greatly simplified - there are 18 million smes in the european union, 50% of which do not include employees - so that they can focus on their core tasks of satisfying customers and offering the right products and services.
the research into renewable energy sources, which is provided for in the agreement, is an essential aspect.
the next point is that non-nuclear energy must be emphasized in these research projects.
they need to be aware of the consumption and co2 emissions.
we should only - as has already been said: our ranks are thin, it is late, we are tired - face the truth: the co2 emissions of cars are increasing and will continue to increase.
so we need a better climate.
the programme aims to improve air quality by 2010 by reducing vehicle emissions.
in my view, the council's common position contains a number of very important provisions, such as a 30% reduction in the limit values for carbon monoxide emissions from october 2000 or 2001 compared with 1996. the problem is still the same and i remember discussing it with you, mr lange.
i wonder what's really best for the environment.
we are now faced with a real case of conscience and i shall analyse all aspects of it again tonight, as things have not gone as planned by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
mr lange, perhaps you could make a last attempt at compromise with the council at night, so that we no longer have to face this case of conscience of having to vote against your excellent report - which i would like to approve - and even, one might almost say, having to vote against the environment by dragging things out once again.
(de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental dimension in energy policy is important and i would therefore like to thank mr chichester warmly for his report, which really does deal with the important issues.
europe's energy needs are met 50% by oil and 25% by gas, which means that almost three quarters of our energy is currently produced from fossil energy sources.
if we admit that we import more than 50% of the european union's overall energy needs, we must certainly ask ourselves how we can guarantee the security of our supply, given not only the climate changes that can and will affect us globally if we do not react but also and above all the possible changes in the political climate.
gas consumption is growing rapidly in the european union and energy imports into the union continue to increase at a rate of 0.9% per year.
we have already made progress in the field of the environment.
co2 emissions are increasing slightly and for so2 and nox we have achieved reductions of 30% and 9% respectively between 1990 and 1994. atomic energy cannot be the solution to the problem.
the austrian delegation therefore abstained on recital l and paragraph 5. nuclear energy is increasingly being replaced by gas.
we need a guaranteed supply, we need competitive energy.
it is impossible to force a country to abandon nuclear energy.
to this extent, the decision to guarantee nuclear safety in energy production is a national decision.
in this context, it is of course necessary to take into account that in different countries the closure of nuclear power stations can also lead to economic problems, that energy production, energy prices and export opportunities are also affected and that environmental problems can of course arise if old and bad fossil fuel power stations are used again.
it has been in the drawers of the consumer protection minister, mrs prammer, for some time now, but we were able to get acquainted with this study thanks to the good cooperation of environmental ngos and to start, last thursday, a very thorough debate on its contents.
and we also need to know precisely how these nuclear power stations are designed when we are talking about the computing difficulties of moving into the year 2000. let me quote the austrian foreign minister, dr wolfgang schüssel, who said on 9 november that if the applicant countries - slovakia, lithuania and bulgaria - wanted to start accession negotiations with the eu, they had to present concrete plans to close the three non-renewable plants by the european council in helsinki in mid-december.
in the words of a report published by a joint eu-slovakia working group on nuclear energy, it is very clear that even without bohunice v1, the country is able to meet its current consumption needs through domestic production until 2015. in other words, the arguments repeatedly put forward by slovakia that the closure would be an economic threat to the national energy production are inaccurate.
we want world free trade to be linked to the fundamental questions of future policy, our future, questions of social harmony and environmental issues.
we have quite high standards in europe at the moment, both in terms of environmental protection and consumer protection, and in terms of social protection for workers.
i support the call for the principles of precaution and sustainability to be taken into account in all areas.
as the general rapporteur of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for the wto negotiations, i would like to thank mr schwaiger very sincerely for his very clear remarks on the subject of trade and the environment.
but if parliament adopts the schwaiger report tomorrow, then we will have affirmed and decided that the principle of environmental protection must be taken into account in all areas of world trade.
greater coherence between trade, labour, environment, animal welfare and other internationally accepted rules and principles of 'business management' should be made mandatory through better cooperation between the wto, the ilo, the un, multilateral environmental agreements and other international institutions.
in its reports on the state of progress of the transition to the acquis communautaire, the commission constantly states that in many respects the applicant countries - whether they belong to the first or the second group - are making very slow progress in implementing and transitioning to the acquis, whether in the social field, the environment and energy, or even human rights and living democracy.
as you have probably noticed, of the two harmful substances mentioned in the report, carbon monoxide is the least controversial.
we should all be aware that logging is not only of economic interest but also, and above all, of ecological interest which concerns us all.
however, the alpine population is not the only one concerned about the preservation of the alpine environment, in which dangers must be limited as much as possible.
this means that agriculture must be possible both in the lessfavoured regions and in those exposed to the rigors of the climate or in peripheral situations.
the traditional cuisine, which has developed from locally grown produce - which naturally had to be adapted to the climate - is a delight not only for the local population but also for all those who look beyond their plates.
we are concerned that the environmental and social situation has not improved at all on a global scale.
it teaches us to be supportive of people who are different, less fortunate and, most importantly, who are experiencing more difficulties than we are in our environment.
when a sensible policy is pursued somewhere, for example in the interests of the environment, it is simply called socialist, to discredit it completely.
the new possibilities are also beneficial for the people of the alps and for the environment, which has been badly damaged by the so-called environmental transit.
but we also expect, and above all from the proposed regulation, that it will enable us sooner or later to contribute to a new and better european transport policy, one which is more efficient, but also a humane and ecological policy.
the austrian presidency has informed me that we have fought to the end to really protect our ozone layer.
the european union has always been a pioneer in stopping the production and use of substances harmful to the ozone layer, and parliament has acted as the ecological conscience of this european union.
hcfcs are far from being as dangerous to the ozone layer.
i believe that road pricing could ultimately lead to a reduction in the cost of mobility if the objectives of reducing congestion, accidents and, above all, increasing environmental protection were achieved, not only in terms of air quality and noise pollution but also in many other areas.
on the restoration of railways, roads, air traffic, energy, telecommunications?
the social and ecological market economy is based on the idea of protecting cultural wealth and imposing safeguards on the market.
i think that our european model can be of great use to the whole of this region, namely that the market economy works, a social and ecological market economy, that this country tries to develop a democratic regime, so that the citizen feels protected, that disputes are settled by parliamentary means and that security exists.
after two emergency loans in december 1997 and april 1998, the imf approved a three-year programme for tajikistan in june 1998 worth us$128 million to consolidate the stabilisation process and achieve sustainable growth.