(applause) the adoption of concrete measures aimed at respecting multi-national agreements on the environment – in particular on climate and biodiversity – and the implementation of the decisions of the copenhagen summit with regard to the fight against poverty, have been put on hold.
meanwhile, the committees of the wto are imposing their law on democracies – in particular the european union – and are giving priority to free trade over all other issues, whether they concern public health, the environment, human rights or social rights.
(applause) the precautionary principle, which forms the basis of european legislation relating to the environment, is, if not ignored, then interpreted in a very restrictive manner by that organisation.
but it is clear that at the height of the crisis it is of course absurd for the commission and its technical services to waste time in discussions with the belgian authorities and their technical services, because there are no standards, because it is not known how much dioxin is allowed in a given product.
can waste from water treatment plants containing cadmium and heavy metals be processed into animal feed and thus enter the food chain?
a clear distinction must be made between what is waste and should be treated as such and what can still be used in our food production.
i believe that in the event of an economic and ecological disaster of this magnitude, we must have the courage to identify the causes and, if necessary, the culprits, not out of some misplaced form of resentment, but in order to prevent such problems in the future.
for example, when it seems that we hear that all kinds of waste are being recycled into animal feed, that years after mad cow disease plant-eaters are still being fed animal meal and that, in addition, the basis of animal feed is made up of products from countries of obscure origin that are completely uncontrolled, one wonders whether these decades of european agricultural policy should not be described as a total failure.
or does anyone have a good argument for recycling and waste going into our food chain?
but you yourself went beyond this debate by mentioning a number of challenges facing the commission and the european union: enlargement, consolidation of growth, sustainable development.
i will give you an example: you advocate more liberalization, but it will be difficult, in this context, to achieve real sustainable development.
you remember the commitments on biodiversity made by the european union, whether in kyoto or rio: the convention on this is still in the draft.
it is clear that the rules of the world trade organisation are, to a large extent, incompatible with the objective of sustainable development.
the belgian government has appointed mr busquin as a commissioner-designate, a man who for years was the president of a criminal association, the walloon socialist party, an association which is in some ways a model in the scandals of bribery, financing by arms traffickers, fraud, political appointments, waste of public money and european subsidies.
- mr prodi, the environment group has suggested that you change the distribution of portfolios within your team because, in addition to the integrity and competence of each commissioner, we consider that their personal commitment and determination to defend the subjects entrusted to them in the perspective of a federal europe are also an important element of appreciation.
in relation to the theme of growth which you addressed in your introductory speech, our commitments to our constituents are those of sustainable and less unequal growth, contrary to the structural trends we are seeing today.
the union must also take fundamental action at global level to stop the welfare gap between the north and the south from widening and to prevent globalisation from leading to ecological and social degradation everywhere in the world, including in the european union, as is unfortunately the case today.
(applause) i would like to thank calling for growth and more liberalisation with a sustainable development agenda is not the appropriate response.
today, four months after the crisis began, we must overcome the emotional climate - you also mentioned this, mr prodi - which has often dominated the debate so far.
and yet we have been confronted in several member states in recent years with what must be considered serious forms of food contamination, as the agri-food industry is transforming virtually without any control all kinds of dirt and waste to bring it into the food chain.
but if there is a single market and open borders with virtually no restrictions on imports, even from third countries, then there is also a need to effectively impose community safety and environmental standards which must be subject to serious controls within the european union, but also in the countries from which these imported foods originate.
it is clear from tests on cattle that there are a number of positive cases which are not caused by animal feed but by environmental pollution, dioxin pollution from industry and incinerators.
the promotion of energy efficiency is considered by the liberal group as a key element of the european union's energy policy.
if the european union is to have a credible energy policy, then the commission and the council will have to finally draw the necessary conclusions from the previous save programmes.
the liberalisation of energy markets in europe is proceeding at a rapid pace and is leading to considerable price reductions.
according to the normally valid economic principles, the offer of cheaper energy is in contradiction with the call to reduce consumption.
in such a context, energy-saving measures may fail to achieve their objectives.
we must therefore adopt the save programme so that liberalisation goes hand in hand with improvements in energy efficiency in the european union.
the liberals will therefore strongly support amendments nos 2 and 5, which aim to increase the energy efficiency of final consumption by 1.5% per year.
i do not think it is appropriate, however, to refer to renewable energy sources.
it seems to me that, in the case of renewable energy sources, it would be best if we had a thorough debate on the substance of the matter in relation to access to electricity distribution networks beforehand.
i believe that the authorities have a vital role to play in setting an example of the rational use of energy.
this view is in sharp contrast to the observation that can be made frequently about public buildings, some of which can be designated as prototypes of energy waste.
the citizen who enters a public building must be able to see that energy saving is a priority concern of the public authorities.
it would have been good in this respect to have appointed a mr or mrs energy whose specific task would have been to strictly control the energy consumption in public buildings.
let us set an example by starting by appointing ourselves a mr or mrs energy for the parliament, both in brussels and in strasbourg.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
peace between the two states, israel and palestine, will only be sustainable if their economies develop within the framework of regional cooperation conducive to sustainable and equitable development for all parties, cooperation which will give priority to the most vulnerable territories: we are thinking, for example, of the water problem.
the problem, in my view, is whether the wto operates on the basis of fair rules that can move the world, not just europe, towards sustainable development.
as regards external policies, i think it is important to stress that we do not only have trade commitments, we are also bound by multilateral environmental agreements, by international conventions on respect for human rights and these commitments have, in my opinion, shared by many colleagues, a value both ethically and politically that is more important than free trade.
in particular the environmental or social conditions in which the product is produced; secondly, the need to minimise the negative effects on free trade of any policy measures aimed at public health, environmental protection or social protection.
we know that nuclear energy is excluded from this agreement.
- (nl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the kyoto climate conference the european union promised to reduce its co2 emissions by 8% compared with 1990 and to do so by 2012. if we now know that cars are responsible for 12% of co2 emissions, if we know that the people who buy these cars are totally unaware that a car is also a means of pollution and how much it pollutes, while they know perfectly well what the blood alcohol level means for example or that i know perfectly well that if i buy a car that consumes three litres per 100 kilometres, it is an economical car, it is essential to make the consumer aware of the pollution caused by cars.
only then can we ensure that the european union also achieves results in terms of reducing co2 emissions.
we must convince the public that cars currently produce an average of 186 grams of co2 per kilometre and that these emissions must be reduced to 120 grams per kilometre.
first, a new car should be labelled with information on fuel consumption and co2 emissions, among other things.
and finally, advertising for new cars should also mention fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
the explicit mention of co2 emissions was a proposal from parliament; the council is following us too.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection also unanimously approved this proposal.
parliament had asked for consideration to be given to the fact that air conditioning or other ancillary equipment can increase pollution, but also that the legal liability of manufacturers and dealers should be more clearly defined and that therefore steering cars and cars registered for a single day should also be included.
we have to see if this works, if the consumer actually takes the environment into account when buying a car and chooses an eco-friendly car over a less environmentally friendly car.
the aim must be to reduce co2 emissions as effectively as possible and to do so quickly.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in particular, stricter rules on working conditions and environmental protection, more effective competition rules and adequate food safety measures should be developed.
fair and equitable trade at the global level requires respect for social and environmental factors and necessarily takes into account all participants, including developing countries.
it is up to us to ensure that social and ecological adjustments find their place in a world where trade is liberalized and to make possible the gradual and accompanied integration of third world countries into the world economy.
i have a motion on a small matter that may seem trivial but i am becoming more and more concerned every day about the incredible waste of paper in this building.
a lot of words are wasted here but we also waste an incredible amount of paper, without any mention of recycling.
moreover, this transitional period creates a climate of profound insecurity.
i think that this needs to be reviewed and that we must above all ask ourselves whether a general free trade is compatible with the possibility for states, and in particular for the european union, to meet other requirements, the first, in my opinion, being that of sustainable development in the world.
however, a number of wto mechanisms and principles run counter to this objective of sustainable development both socially and ecologically.
that is why i tabled an amendment to our text to remove the word 'pollution'.
climate change is continuing and additional stringent greenhouse gas reduction measures must be taken by 2010. seven years have already passed since the rio earth summit, where firm commitments were made, but without any real positive consequences so far.
it is therefore urgent that major measures be taken now to involve the public in decision-making on climate change, to make them responsible for the phenomenon of climate change, for example through wider information campaigns, which affect the behaviour of everyone.
i would also like to say a final word on the energy tax and the co2 tax, which are mentioned in paragraph 14 of the resolution.
i am not opposed to the principle of taxing polluting emissions, but i believe that these measures must respect two principles: firstly, they must seek to guarantee fiscal neutrality and, secondly, they must concern the whole of the industrialized world, or at least the oecd, so as not to create distortions of competition or ecological dumping.
climate change is not a fatality.
- the fight against the ozone hole, which is widening day by day, is a major concern for the citizens of europe and the world.
the studies are instructive: the ozone level has fallen by 6 to 10% in twenty years; in 1996, the hole spread over 20 million km2 for more than 40 days, and an unprecedented 46% decrease in the ozone layer over scandinavia, greenland and siberia was observed.
yet recent studies show that efforts to combat greenhouse gases are far from sufficient.
the increase in the incidence of cancers, the serious immune disorders to which this depletion of the ozone layer leads, need not be mentioned.
most of these companies have integrated the environmental dimension into their product development policies.
the common resistance of the agriculture and environment committees rightly encourages us to put an end to the commission's proposals.