this is the worst misconduct of the minister of the environment!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
the opportunity was given here for a policy towards environmental sustainability that strengthens regional structures.
this is devastating and a dangerous misguided course for the year 2000. if today we are celebrating the stability pact for south-eastern europe as a great success, we would have done better not to waste money on bombs, missiles and soldiers, but to present the pact a few months earlier as part of a comprehensive political and civil concept of the european union for the region and to provide the osce with the necessary resources.
however, we will only succeed if we confront the issues which have genuine importance in the daily life of the citizens, such as unemployment, economic growth and the challenge represented by sustainable development to ensure a balance between the creation of riches, social justice and quality of life.
it is now a question of focusing our energy on the really important tasks: rebuilding houses left without roofs, putting back together shattered communities, and, even more importantly, providing the balkans with a clear political and economic future, which will put an end to all the centuries of continual conflict.
(applause from the centre) the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
i would refer to the decision forbidding the use of some antibiotics in feed as a boost to growth, and the decision approved by the council last monday to tighten up the rules on the treatment of animal waste as a way of protecting against infectious tse diseases.
the council also urged the commission to take a critical look at eu legislation regarding the disposal of meat meal, animal waste and feed.
the council considered the commission"s proposal for an exhaustive programme of legislation to be welcome in principle, a programme of which you are aware and whose purpose is to accommodate legislation on animal nutrition and measures relating to animal waste.
in addition, this laboratory offers a further education programme which is particularly concerned with the consideration of environmental contaminants.
a legal basis must be created as regards the application of a safeguard clause in the event of emergencies which may occur in the european union in connection with animal feed products and which may pose a serious risk to the health of humans or animals and the environment.
we must prohibit, for example, the use of waste products in animal feed.
waste products are not included.
for example, will it be examined where emissions from waste incineration plants occur, where there are other emissions of dioxins, which are present in the soil, which are present in the grass that the animals eat?
we know very well that it is not just animal feed, but our natural environment.
if we believe that we can make a high profit from waste products as cheaply as possible and if we want to do so, then we will have such cases again and again.
but i also say that i find it absurd that member states which in the past have never complied with european safety standards, for example, now want to ban the use of animal flour in general, or that the commission now, in a working document on the question of the use of oils and fats at the same time, is generally discussing the question of food waste.
then we're going from functioning recycling systems to unsolved waste problems.
the question of maximum levels, mr fischler, must be linked to a ban on waste, otherwise this possibility of systematic disposal will not be stopped.
- the next item is the report (a5-0002/99) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council recommendation (com (98) 0772 - c4-0073/1999 - 1998/0358 (cod)) (ex 1998/0358 (syn)) laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states.
strengthening economic growth, job creation and sustainable development.
it would also be a huge waste of much needed energy elsewhere, such as in the construction of new policies.
the third major challenge we face is how to ensure ecologically and economically sustainable growth that creates new jobs.
we must therefore take advantage of the more favourable prospects for the coming years to ensure that growth remains strong for as long as possible, creates the jobs we need and is accompanied by a renewed and genuine commitment to sustainable development.
if we succeed in doing so, we will have a real opportunity to build a just and sustainable society.
the time has come to have the courage and the energy to seize the opportunity to usher in a new era in europe.
- about environmental policy.
you mentioned the term 'sustainable development' once.
i think we should try to continue along this path in the fields of postal services, energy, telecommunications and railways, where comparable conditions exist.
here again, i can say on behalf of my group that the commission is clearly determined to include, among other things, the issues of european agro-social standards and environmental provisions in the millennium cycle.
the commission's support for the reconstruction and development effort would then focus on the following points: first, the establishment of the rule of law and the democratization of national institutions; second, the demobilization and socioeconomic reintegration of the belligerents; thirdly, restoration of the environment, especially in the provinces of kivu and eastern kivu; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
we have all stressed in this parliament in countless motions for resolutions that renewable energy is the technology of the future for the 21st century.
this week the un released a report which says that energy saving is one of the themes of the coming decades.
i find it inexcusable that, while we are calling for a 'one million roofs' programme for solar energy, we have not invested in renewable energy either in strasbourg or in brussels and that we are not doing anything here to save energy: for example, the lobbies of our offices are lit day and night, it is impossible to turn off the lights, etc.
you know that renewable energy would be depreciated in nine to 12 months.
energy saving, energy efficiency, renewable energy - that is what we are calling for every day in our resolutions!
i would also like to see an energy efficiency plan drawn up for both buildings.
because i think we can't afford to waste so much energy here while telling the public to save energy.
we must solve these problems, with a firm emphasis on renewable energy, energy saving and energy efficiency.
i think we can all agree that environmental problems are those which require urgent solutions.
the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment have not yet been able to deal with this matter.
i often don't understand the environmental and ethical implications of the manufacturing process.
(applause) i would like to thank for years i was the rapporteur on the budget in the committee on the environment.
this must be clearly stated if we want a new policy for the environment and consumers.
we need such a register which also includes other sources of dioxin such as waste incineration plants, for example, and other areas.
in this connection, you will note the close link between environmental policy and consumer protection, and vice versa.
mr florenz referred to the issue of pesticides: we regularly receive information on the health and environmental hazards of obsolete pesticides which have no scientific basis.
the u.s. environmental protection agency has told us that there are more toxic pcbs out there.
let me add one thing: it is irresponsible to consider that industry itself bears responsibility for safety and to shift responsibility for the environment and risk prevention onto the greek calends.
in germany, which is known as the country of the unconditional exploitation of slaughterhouse waste and animal carcasses, the debate on animal meal has now turned into a macabre media spectacle.
i cannot imagine that in our day and age, which is so rich in innovation, we cannot switch to new and different methods of disposing of waste.
for us in germany, sewage sludge is waste and as such has no place in animal feed.
nevertheless, there is an urgent need to support the sustainable and effective development of these countries.
- (de) mr president, the altener programme is part of the multiannual action programme in the field of energy for the period 1998-2002 and deals with the essential chapter on alternative renewable energies.
with the entry into force of the amsterdam treaty, the legal basis has changed: the multiannual energy programme is now subject to the co-decision procedure.
parliament can now see that both the commission and the council have largely taken up its proposals and i would therefore like to thank them for this constructive collaboration as rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the parliament and the commission have a common objective of increasing the share of renewable energy in the community's gross energy consumption to 12% by 2010. that's about twice the current rate.
our amendments - there are nine in all - require member states to make a voluntary commitment to promote renewable energy.
a charter should address the fact that no chapter of the treaty on european union is specifically devoted to energy policy.
in addition, in article 1 (1), parliament expresses its willingness to implement the campaign for renewable energy sources already called for in the 1997 white paper and to create new instruments and mechanisms to promote the accelerated and coordinated market penetration of all sustainable energy technologies.
we are convinced that part iv of the multiannual action programme on energy cannot meet all the requirements.
i would like to remind you of the second report we have today, mrs ahern's report on energy efficiency.
however, i would also point out that the introduction of alternative energy sources confronts us with two important issues: hydropower and wind energy, whose coverage is proportionately as large as the others (e.g.
solar energy or the use of biomass), must be encouraged in an extremely intensive way.
i am delighted and pleased that you now have responsibility for this important subject, commissioner, because as a former spanish minister of agriculture you know that in agricultural policy it is probably more appropriate to reduce surpluses than to devote useful land to the energy exploitation of biomass.
i know, however, that there is still relatively great resistance in this area, and that it comes from industry but also from agricultural policy, but we should nevertheless join our efforts in order to link agricultural policy and energy policy in the field of renewable energies.
the european union has set itself the objective of doubling the share of renewable energy in consumption by 2010. parliament and the commission already agreed on this during the debates on the green and white papers.
although it is clear that the available energy potential of wind and solar energy, biomass, hydropower and biothermal energy would make it possible to reach 12% of consumption by 2010, we know that reaching this 12% will require considerable efforts if we take into account the rates of increase observed in the past.
this requires first and foremost equitable access to the electricity grid for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources.
commissioner, parliament is awaiting proposals which will help to bring these forms of energy to the market.
it is the only eu programme whose sole objective is the promotion of renewable energy sources.
this programme is also the essential instrument for the implementation of the community strategy for renewable energy sources and therefore also for the campaign to promote renewable energy sources.
the project would involve the installation of 15 million m2 of solar collectors and the generation of 10 000 megawatts from wind energy and 10 000 megawatts from biomass.
the use of renewable energy sources is a perfect example of developing and applying the most modern technologies while at the same time helping to preserve the environment; but there's a second aspect.
unlike the major energy companies, which have made redundancies, this means that by launching this programme, by encouraging alternative energy sources, we as europeans are also contributing to the value of employment policy.
it is also, of course, a question of providing these countries with renewable and environmentally friendly energy production in order to promote environmental protection and also - it must be said in all honesty - to open up new markets.
the aim is to increase this and to involve the european council more in the export of renewable energies in order to pool expertise and ensure their rapid and effective implementation.
the foundation will distribute the funds to some 100 non-governmental organizations active in the fields of human rights, environmental protection, social prevention, etc.
we hope that the positive climate which has developed in recent times can be a step towards a more lasting improvement in relations between the two countries.
we should not waste time in vain debates about whether he is a candidate for a candidacy or whether we should create a new category of candidates who are candidates but with whom we do not negotiate.
the greens call on the council and the commission to take an initiative, particularly with regard to the disarmament process and the protection of the environment.
in addition, it must be able to respond to consumer concerns about food quality and safety, environmental protection and ensuring animal welfare.
these include environmental, investment and competition issues.
in the future, the wto rules will have to be formulated in such a way that they provide the opportunity to ensure environmental protection and fair treatment of foreign investment.
sustainable development is a common objective of the member states, enshrined in the preamble to the wto treaty.
trade policy and environmental policy must be more mutually supportive.
the european union therefore considers it important that sustainable development is the basis of the negotiations and that the environment is taken into account in the different sectors of the negotiating round.
immediately after the meeting of the general affairs council, i shall be presenting a detailed commentary to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 12 october on the council's common position in the light of the resolutions adopted.
these advances are what must reconcile population growth and economic growth with a limited supply of natural resources, because it is technical progress that pushes back the frontier of the sustainable use of these resources.
i see the threats to the local and global environment.
it is also our responsibility to sort out the fears of millennialism, the resistance to change and the opportunities to seize in globalisation for growth, human development and environmental protection.
secondly, new subjects must be integrated into the wto's missions, subjects brought up by civil society: environment, culture, health, food, and also competition and investment, which are now inseparable from international trade.
the second is to define rules and strengthen the wto institution in order to strengthen its multilateral character, improve the impact of globalisation on sustainable development and prevent the environmental and health risks inherent in unregulated competition between different national standards and production levels.
we want to convince them through negotiation that the most effective way to attract foreign direct investment, the preferred route to technology and international markets, is first of all to create a safe and predictable environment for foreign investors, whether they are from industrialised or other emerging countries.
restrictive practices in access to markets, credit and energy are one of the main causes - generally not well known in our country - of underdevelopment, perpetuation of social inequalities and corruption in these countries.
let us now turn to three other themes: environmental protection, consumer health and the audiovisual sector, which, beyond the tensions between technical progress and cultural traditions, refer to features of civilization which distinguish europe: the requirement for quality, for example that of food, cultural identity in an open world, the preference for the non-market in a number of activities.
the european union has set out to define policies to protect the environment, health and food safety.
everyone is aware of the problem of the interface between national standards, wto rules and other multilateral agreements on the environment or health protection.
firstly, because the main target of this new round of negotiations is sustainable development and this concerns primarily the developing countries.
we are defending the european agricultural model, which includes food production, the maintenance of family farms, the preservation of rural areas and the protection of the environment.
the negotiating principles and the most important outlines of solutions developed by the commission in its july 1999 document have so far received a largely positive response in our discussions in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
our draft resolution will contain many of the dynamic elements already mentioned by the president of the council and commissioner lamy, which take up our ideas for a better involvement of financial services, an investment and competition policy in the wto, further reductions in customs duties on industrial products and better incorporation of environmental and consumer protection - let us even talk about mainstreaming - in the wto regulatory framework and vice versa.
in the resolution which will be put to the vote in november, it will defend its position with consistency, energy and responsibility.
you can count on us, mr president of the council sasi and mr commissioner lamy, to defend with energy and consistency the position which will be determined in our resolution not only vis-à-vis you but also vis-à-vis the partners involved in the negotiations of the millennium cycle.
it is therefore necessary that social and occupational standards, health and food standards and environmental aspects be an essential part of the negotiated package.
the socialist group expressly supports the commission's approach to linking the concepts of globalisation and sustainable development.
that is why we do not need new rounds of liberalization but a fundamental analysis and evaluation of the effects of the uruguay round on countries, people and the environment.
the commission cannot be given a negotiating mandate which is contrary to human rights, social rights and the environment.
this is one of the essential conditions for ensuring that areas such as environmental and consumer protection are given the place they deserve and are not 'merged' into any panel.
environmental and health policy is an important and justified part of this agreement.
the commission's work on trade and the environment in the world trade organization is not enough.
we must make the wto more open, more democratic and more transparent and ensure that the whole agreement can be subjected to what you yourself have mentioned, namely a review of its environmental compatibility.
the tried and tested european model must be maintained, for example in terms of our high environmental standards and consumer protection, including socioeconomic measures.
it must be given to other important objectives, such as environmental protection or sustainability in the fisheries sector.
first, the emissions trading.
many in our group believe that emissions trading - which is buying back the obligation to reduce co2 emissions - is politically indefensible.
i do not want to go into this but i think that reducing co2 emissions is not only a burden but also has an economic effect and offers the possibility of reconciling the improvement of the quality of life with employment.
i am firmly convinced that the position adopted by parliament - to allow a maximum of 50% of emissions trading and to require that 50% of the reduction be carried out in the country itself - is the right political and economic way to generate employment here too.
however, past experience has shown that sometimes this was not the case, that collaboration took place in an ad hoc fashion, whether within delegations where it seemed that the european commission was negotiating while the parliamentarians present were only elements of the decor, or with regard to the very wording of the mandate or, to take a particularly negative example, the commitment to reduce emissions and its negotiation by the commission with the relevant partners, especially more recently with the japanese and korean car manufacturers.
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i think that public opinion does not expect us to contribute to global warming, but to take concrete measures.
commissioner, you mentioned renewable energy.
the question here is not so much aid and similar measures as when we will have a european directive on access to the grid for renewable energy with a cost-compensation.
what is possible, however, is to tax co2 emissions.
i would like to know what the timetables are and what your position is on these two concrete proposals to help reduce co2 emissions considerably.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i support the joint resolution of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and, unlike other members of my group, i also support the adoption of this resolution on the co2 tax.
in germany, the cdu does not think - we have recently discussed this with our president, mr schäuble - that we should stop working on a european solution simply because the national red-green government is treating the subject of environmental taxes so incorrectly.
five to ten per cent of europe's energy consumption is wasted because we put our televisions and other electronic devices on standby mode instead of turning them off.
five to ten per cent is a huge contribution to energy savings that could be made by switching off appliances or incorporating new technical devices to reduce their energy consumption.
we shouldn't be talking about co2 alone either, because if my data is correct, 50 percent of the greenhouse effect is due to other greenhouse gases.
on the subject of climate change, i would like to express my concern that this subject is gradually disappearing from the spotlight and becoming less and less of interest to public opinion and politicians.
firstly, we should support the proposal by our colleague mr lange to involve parliament closely in decisions on emissions trading, because such a heavy interference in trade policy is unlikely to be imposed against parliament's wishes.
the first was the question of when the commission would present sectoral reduction plans with timetables and the second was the question of co2 emissions from kerosene in the air transport sector.
the question then remains, of course, of your position on a directive on access to the grid for renewable energy sources with a cost-sharing clause.
but we agree that we should all do something for the environment.
mr putin openly stated that the stakes of the conflict involved exclusively or mainly the interests of energy and raw materials on the ground.
in addition, it is understandable that the sustainable management of resources, the systematic collection of basic data and the deepening of the dialogue with the sector reassure us.
the other categories also pose problems, such as category 3, which contains the traditional essential elements of our policy: environmental policy, youth training policy, research, transeuropean networks, which offer us prospects for job creation and improving our competitiveness in a context of global competition.
we must also make efforts to be more efficient and apply more ecological principles in these areas.
- (de) madam commissioner, mr president, the current climate conference in bonn calls for more eu funding for renewable energy both in the field of research and in support of community programmes.
the recent nuclear accidents in japan and south korea show once again how long a new energy policy has been delayed.
as regards the appropriations allocated to euratom, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy calls for the european parliament to be consulted immediately.
secondly, we must talk about it because workers expect us, the european union, to control globalisation and to regulate the necessary modernisation of companies and their adaptation to markets in a smart, that is to say socially sustainable, way.
a rise in profits of over 17% in the first half of 1999 alone is truly remarkable, but these profits should be reinvested by companies in new products, in new production methods that respect the environment and, above all, in the training of workers.
finally, a few words on the northern dimension of the union, which aims to increase welfare, strengthen security and combat environmental pollution, nuclear risks and the dangers of crossborder organised crime.
cooperation between experts is progressing in a number of other areas, including the environment, the control of the millennium bug in russia and improved energy efficiency.
another advantage for citizens is the strong decentralisation of the youth programme which also allows young people to participate in the programme in their home environment.
- mr bendit (greens/efa) for the environment committee, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (91) 0173 - c4-0314/91) - madam president, i would simply like to ask my colleagues if they are not asking themselves whether we are not completely ridiculous in this matter, for the simple reason that we may have positions on globalisation, on michelin, some on the left, others on the right.
this will be accepted if we have a common transport policy, a common environmental policy.
we must not justify to the citizens of the union that we need a european environmental policy, a european safety policy in the field of dangerous goods.
states have long since lost their sovereignty in the fields of the environment, air transport or security.
of course we have to look after the interests of the fishermen, but we also have to see that there are growing ecological problems linked to this fisheries agreement, as well as general foreign and security policy problems affecting the eu as a whole.
to do this, let us ensure that we reach a fair agreement quickly, one which covers ecological issues and foreign and security policy and which does not make the mistake of taking a demagogic turn that could destabilise our relations.
(de) mr president, i was very happy to vote in favour of mr cunha's excellent report, because it is also very much centred on the principle of sustainability, which is necessary for a fisheries policy geared to the future.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the regulatory policy needed to complete the european market in the sense of a social and sustainable market economy cannot succeed in the union unless the community interest is put first.
we therefore ask you this very specific question: when will you reach agreements with concrete benchmarks on what public investment can bring to the sustainability of the growth process, which must also have a positive impact on the labour market?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on foreign affairs supports the report of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy and the rapporteur's report.
the eu and china should sign a specific science and technology agreement to improve and expand cooperation in areas such as energy, environment, life sciences, biotechnology, transport, telecommunications and information and communication technologies.
the list of subjects mentioned here is reasonable: health, environment, nutrition.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is part of the eu strategy to reduce co2 emissions from transport.
for example, we might wonder if we need realistic values, because everyone knows that air conditioning or auxiliary heating greatly changes the co2 emissions of a car.
parliament - and of course the environment committee members, who were responsible for this - was not very happy that it had not participated in the negotiations on the agreement between the european union and the japanese and korean manufacturers.
this directive gives consumers the opportunity to decide on the purchase of a car not only on the basis of engine power or top speed, but also on the basis of co2 emissions and taking into account a hierarchy, a ranking of the ten most fuel-efficient models.
while others in bonn are trying to evade their responsibilities and do not want to reduce co2 emissions, let us not do things halfway, let us pass the law and give the consumer the opportunity to reduce his own co2 emissions!
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for about two years, since the kyoto conference, we have been discussing how to transpose the obligations to reduce co2 emissions into european law.
the directive under discussion is certainly an important part of our strategy to combat co2 emissions.
the mention of co2 emissions is, in my view, more to raise awareness of the problem.
i see this as one of the aims of the directive: to make consumers aware of the reduction in co2 emissions from their favourite car, so that they feel a little more concerned about it and remember it.
as a european legislator, we will continue to set clear limit values and deadlines for achieving a significant reduction in harmful emissions.
in the field of combating youth unemployment and longterm unemployment, the transition from passive to active measures can lead to effective and sustainable integration into the labour market.
existing or new concepts of energy taxation must, however, be tested to determine whether they are appropriate for maintaining the balance of the social security system in the long term as well.
the greatest progress has been made in small and mediumsized enterprises: a better environment for new creation, the removal of administrative constraints.
the council has admittedly accepted some important points in its common position, such as the mandatory setting of limit values in two stages, the raising of the durability requirements for the pollution control systems of heavy goods vehicles and buses, the introduction of on-board diagnostic systems and a survey of vehicles in service.
first, the council postponed the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions from 2005 to 2008 and even added an intermediate stage before 2005. i think that this approach does not make economic sense, since everyone knows that nitrogen oxide emissions and particulate matter emissions necessarily follow the same evolutionary curve and that tackling one will automatically have an impact on the other.
on the contrary, a bulk reduction in nox emissions should be the aim.
several technologies exist to reduce both particulate matter and nox emissions to the level required by parliament at first reading, either by adding ammonia or by cooling the load in combination with a recovery filter.
moreover, such a decision would be a waste of all the engineers' efforts and would make no economic sense.
in addition, the reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions is of course also justified from an ecological point of view.
we are discussing, for example, a limit value for ozone concentrations, a value which we want to reach by 2010 and which would be 80% lower than the one currently recorded in the european union.
if we really want to achieve this, we absolutely must also reduce nitrogen oxide emissions from trucks and buses.
these 23 million commercial vehicles emit the same amount of nitrogen oxide as 168 million cars, or 50% of total nitrogen oxide emissions.
we have a chance to bring this legislative procedure on the reduction of exhaust gas emissions to a successful conclusion with a view to improving air quality.
(applause) i would like to thank
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the reduction of exhaust emissions from heavy goods vehicles which we are debating today is, in my view, a logical continuation of our efforts to improve air quality in europe while preserving the mobility of citizens.
timely information to workers is a sign of transparency, which creates a climate of confidence and avoids friction and its harmful effects in european companies.
- the next item is the report (a5-0039/1999) by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission 'strengthening the integration of the environmental dimension in european energy policy' (com (98) 571 - c4-0040/99).
the european union also promotes environmental policy in the energy sector through programmes that promote the efficiency of installations.
but today i want to say again very clearly that the most important environmental policy measure was to introduce the abolition of monopolies and the introduction of competition in the electricity and gas directives of 1996 and 1998. this is the only way in which the old monopolies have been able to stop operating unprofitable plants, the costs of which they have passed on to consumers.
only a competitive environment can lead to different tariff policies, as we have all seen in the telecommunications sector.
in other words, less energy will have to be produced, which is the most significant environmental contribution to be made by these directives.
the energy producers and distributors will themselves try to control demand.
when the directives were adopted, the epp group stressed that environmental policy had not yet been harmonised.
i would also like to point out that these directives provide for priority technical regulations for the production of electricity from renewable sources and from cogeneration.
all these are clear environmental benefits.
but what is still missing, what the old commission has not created and which we hope will finally be created, is a european directive which not only regulates the production of electricity from renewable sources from a technical point of view but also sets out the models which will make it possible, in accordance with european competition law, to promote this type of energy in compliance with the treaties.
i am not one of those who believe that a co2 tax can protect the environment.
i would quote the secretary-general of the iaea who recently told us that he was not aware of any model which would show that a tax on polluting emissions actually contributes to reducing energy consumption and emissions of pollutants.
this will certainly not be the last debate on environmental and energy policy that we have in this house.
however, it also requires the european union to adopt framework directives, a framework which allows competition to take place in an environmentally friendly environment.
secondly, i would point out that as far as we can judge, fossil energy sources such as coal, oil and gas will remain the dominant energy sources in europe for a long time, let alone the rest of the world.
which means that if we want to improve air quality, if we want to fight the greenhouse effect, we have to keep our focus on fighting these effects of burning fossil fuels.
unfortunately, too little is said about this, but the most promising elements in this field are indeed more energy-efficient appliances and, above all, better combustion techniques.
secondly, i think it is very important to mobilise citizens and to harness their imagination in the field of energy policy.
citizen initiatives are useful in the energy field.
there are many examples of initiatives by villages, towns or groups which have led to significant energy savings or to the implementation of new technologies at a faster rate than usual.
in conclusion, however, let me address two phenomena which are not directly related to the european union but are related to the global climate.
- (es) mr president, i should first like to thank and congratulate mr chichester on his positive and constructive report on the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on the reinforcement of the integration of the environmental dimension into the union's energy policy.
at the helsinki summit in december, the heads of state and government will discuss the integration of the environmental dimension and sustainable development into the various sectoral policies, in particular energy policy.
firstly, i would point out that it was the energy sector which first drew up a communication on the integration of the environmental dimension into its policy.
this reflects the critical role it must play if we are to meet the environmental challenges we face.
the energy sector has made a significant contribution to improving air quality at local and regional level compared to past practices.
i would like to emphasize the existing cooperation between the energy and environmental sectors.
this confirms that it is possible to strengthen integration and, through it, to establish environmental quality standards at a cost that does not affect european competitiveness, which must never be lost sight of.
this cooperation is of particular importance in the fight against climate change.
energy is still a major issue in the preparation of the international negotiations for the implementation of the kyoto protocol.
the emphasis on the need to change people's reflexes and consumption habits, and to establish communication channels with citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises confirms the importance that political leadership will have on changing our consumption habits and stimulating sustainable development.
as i have often said, we must start by setting an example in public facilities, in public buildings, in the public sector and in institutions, of more efficient and rational use of energy.
technology will always play an important role, but ultimately the establishment of new or higher environmental standards will have to rely on the support of citizens.
parliament's resolution reminds us of the whole external dimension, namely the enlargement process and relations with third countries, in particular developing countries, and calls for a realistic, balanced and flexible approach to policy-making, which is particularly important when considering the energy mix and its evolution over time.
the commission, ladies and gentlemen, agrees with parliament that a broad approach is needed to stimulate the use of low-carbon energy sources to meet demand.
our programmes emphasise renewable energy and energy efficiency.
these demand policies are a central pillar of the sustainable dimension of our energy policy to address the major environmental concerns of citizens.
it reminds us of the true definition of sustainable development.
we must carefully analyse the economic and social consequences of our policy decisions in the energy and environmental sectors.
finally, mr president, various speakers referred to a wider debate, to consider all aspects relating not only to the demand and environmental aspects but also to the aspect of our energy sources and our energy dependence as envisaged for the future.
as a german, you know that where it is indispensable - i am thinking of the case of the greifswald nuclear power station - it can indeed take place overnight, provided of course that we have the political will and that we create the right environment.
however, i also think i have pointed out a contradiction in the internal energy policy of the european union as a whole if you consider that in the cases mentioned, safety can ultimately only result from the shutdown - and i agree with you - and that on the other hand, as regards similar nuclear power stations in the cis, you are considering ensuring safety by modernising and promoting these safety measures by the european union.
i think it would be very problematic to establish another criterion outside the community, including for the cases mentioned, and i think we would all be well advised to aim not only at stopping in eastern europe, but also to become a model for energy policy within the european union, and not to threaten the possibilities that exist in this area by continuing deregulation.
i can tell them that i will use all my will, all my energy and all my political experience to try to carry out this task successfully, in collaboration with the other institutions.
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the commission communication to the council and the european parliament on the eu approach to the wto millennium cycle is in line with the work of the former committee on foreign trade, which adopted a position on the marrakesh, singapore and geneva negotiating cycles by a large majority.
the defence of our european economic and social model, the social and ecological market economy?
all these objectives are equally important to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, as the vote on monday evening shows.
we are in favour of the conclusion of multilateral environmental agreements which would then be taken into consideration in the wto.
we are in favour of sustainable integration and the promotion of electronic commerce within the gatt framework.
the european model of sustainable agriculture, which is based not only on food production but also on the preservation of the countryside, the environment and our quality products, must be maintained.
the next round of wto negotiations is therefore of exceptional importance and europe must speak with one voice in order to ensure that socially and environmentally sustainable growth also benefits from the evolution of world trade.
it is essential because it is no longer just a question of reducing customs duties or quotas, but also of basic things such as social issues, environmental protection or fair competition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
of course, these must be the areas - i will mention a few - in which the committee on the environment has in the past identified shortcomings, failures and errors, and where it has found that this is the case.
i shall mention those which the committee on the environment has considered to be of paramount importance.
firstly, we must have a clear definition of the precautionary principle, a definition as adopted at the rio conference on environment and development.
secondly, it must be possible to implement multilateral environmental conventions without creating conflicts with the world trade organisation.
this procedure, which has always been a problem in the past - and many of the problems concerned environmental policy, consumer protection and animal welfare - must be made more transparent.
these are just some of the main points raised by other members, because everyone will say that the environment and consumer protection must be on the agenda of the world trade organisation.
i thank the rapporteurs and my colleagues on the committee on industry for including in the final report - which is not obvious and is not always the case - many of the points adopted by the committee on the environment.
these points were well received in the rapporteur's amendments and in the compromise amendments, so that much of what the committee on the environment considered essential for seattle was taken up in mr schwaiger's report.
that is why i invite you, mr lamy, and the commission to raise these and other issues as soon as the negotiating cycle opens and to ensure that we can continue to work in the next few years in the framework of this cycle so that the world trade organisation is what we wanted it to be: a social, fair, environmentally friendly trade organisation which allows us to trade, but also to let our citizens and our environment live.
we want to take into account the interests of developing countries and pay particular attention to environmental issues and fundamental labour rights.
to close the gap between the least and most developed economies, social and environmental standards and consumer and health protection must be adopted.
we must ensure that the exception becomes the states which allow or even attract production guided only by short-term benefits and which prove to be harmful to the environment and cement social abuses.
the committee on employment and social affairs is unanimous in its view that states which meet basic social and environmental standards must be supported in their integration into the world economy.
within the richest nations, and particularly in the united states, which has benefited most from open markets, there is growing - ironically, i would say - alongside the rise of international competitors in the world trade organization, skepticism and concern that globalisation also leads to impoverishment, environmental destruction and loss of national sovereignty.
where is the demand for analysing the effects of the wto on developing countries, on the environment, on the eu, on existing treaties before starting the next round of negotiations?
they must respond to sustainability and social needs and not to the interests of multinationals and their shareholders.
the essential requirement is that and not a new round of liberalization which only serves to put people in competition on a global scale for miserable wages and deplorable social and ecological conditions.
a fair, social, ecological and solidarity-based world trade must be our goal!
in 1994 a significant number of members shared our reservations about the social and ecological damage caused by the wto.
today, new voices are suddenly being heard, speaking of social and ecological needs to be met.
i therefore hope that we will have responsible, sustainable and partnership-friendly fishing and i wish mr schwaiger and his team every success in the negotiations, also in our favour.
i would take environmental standards as an example.
we do not want to discuss only the environmental damage caused in europe by products from other countries, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, we also want to talk more about production methods, ppm, in other countries and not just about labelling but also about how we can prevent environmental damage on a global scale through trade measures.
the liberals have tabled a very good amendment in committee, and it is in this resolution under paragraph 47. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not in conformity with the treaty.
in this context, it is important that we also discuss climate protection, because in rio in 1992 and in kyoto in 1997 the world agreed that this is a huge problem that we must tackle together.
it must therefore also be possible to implement climate protection measures within the wto.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy then adopted an amendment to which the words 'social balanced' were added.
it is committed to the european environment.
the beginnings are promising: a favourable investment climate, tax relief, cutting red tape, and an end to the personal enrichment of those in charge.
the bank has also been criticised on this point in the past, whether for its investments in the health sector in my country, which have mainly helped to anchor obsolete structures, or in the transport and environment sector in eastern europe.
in future, it cannot and must not be enough for the bank to limit itself to the isolated examination of specific projects - for example, a section of a motorway - but it must also examine projects in a context - for example, within a national transport development plan - in order to identify possible duplication and develop an acceptable and more financially sustainable alternative.
european shipbuilding know-how both in traditional sales and in new market sectors remains a reliable, sustainable and obvious resource.
we have started seven new negotiating chapters with the candidate countries already involved in the negotiations and we hope to do the same with an eighth chapter, which has proved difficult, the one on the environment.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the directive under consideration is the second daughter directive drawn up within the framework of the directive on the assessment and management of ambient air quality and the proposal is part of a package of integrated measures to combat air pollution.
in its most recent publication, the european environment agency notes that most cities suffer from air pollution harmful to health and that nearly 40 million people living in europe's 115 largest cities are exposed to at least one harmful substance above the who air quality guidelines.
despite policy initiatives to reduce pollution and improve air quality, over the next ten years, the need for transport for people is expected to increase enormously and the number of vehicles to increase by 25%, further worsening our air quality.
in a report published this year, who concludes that air pollution from transport causes more deaths than road accidents.
it is therefore important to reduce the level of air pollution in order to reduce its impact on the most vulnerable groups of the population and to relieve the burden on health systems.
the essential element of this second daughter directive is that for the first time limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide are laid down in the eu.
at present, there is no threshold value for the health risks of this substance and therefore no harmless benzene pollution.
the commission has proposed an annual average limit value for benzene of 5 μg/m3, to be reached by 2010. this proposal has the full support of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the committee on the environment expects the directive to be implemented correctly and proposes to limit the derogation to a single five-year period, with the 10 μg value to be respected during this period.
the committee on the environment therefore wants to make it absolutely clear that this cannot be interpreted as a double-edged environmental policy.
the commission's proposal for a more precise and stricter derogation regulation would make it clear that it is not a question of pursuing an ambiguous environmental policy but rather of achieving a high level of protection for all eu citizens.
i think that if we succeed in this, if - let us hope - the commission can agree with our proposals, we will have really taken a step forward in improving air quality and helped to make people understand that carcinogens cannot be dispersed in the environment.
the second daughter directive on the limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air and the related monitoring and reporting obligations was drawn up for this purpose.
our amendments are not only aimed at introducing strict environmental protection requirements, but also at formulating these requirements in such a way that they can be implemented and respected by all member states.
in this respect, the priorities set by the european commission and the subsequent amendments proposed by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are very demanding.
we all know how urgent the problem of reducing emissions of harmful substances is in the context of climate change.
for this very reason i cannot accept certain amendments which have won a majority in the committee on the environment and which have been tabled mainly by mrs breyer and her group.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking on behalf of the epp group and in particular my colleague marlies flemming, who represents the committee on the environment at the wto negotiations and is unfortunately not in a position to speak today.
the original commission proposal aims to establish a monitoring system to obtain effective data on co2 emissions from new passenger cars.
this proposal is part of the european strategy to reduce co2 emissions and fuel consumption.
an agreement with the automotive sector on the reduction of co2 emissions by a set date and on a fuel consumption indicator system to facilitate consumer choice when buying a new individual vehicle are other elements of this strategy.
this strategy is certainly relevant because we know that some 50% of all co2 emissions are traffic related but we also have to note that the european union is responsible for about 12% of total emissions, for 88% for the rest of the world.
the amendments relate, for example, to the kyoto protocol, to the importance of data collection for a satisfactory review of the voluntary commitment to reduce co2 emissions from motor vehicles by 2003, to the european community's commitment to inform the european parliament of the data transmitted by the member states and to supplement the information to be transmitted.
thirdly, the voluntary commitment of the automotive sector - whether european, korean or japanese - is about technical measures to reduce co2 emissions through better engines, lighter vehicles, etc.
you know these new topics: environment, social norms, for example.
we must be concerned about the impact of this liberalization on the main parameters of our development models, the fundamental rights of workers, environmental and health protection, cultural diversity, multifunctional agriculture, environmental quality.
what middle-income developing countries and emerging economies will demand in return for joining our social, environmental, health, workers' rights agenda is substantial improvements in access to our markets.
secondly, european environmental and health policy, minimum social standards and development policy should retain their importance in this process.
thirdly, in the forthcoming agricultural negotiations, the emphasis will have to be on the multifunctionality of the european agricultural model, namely the further development of rural areas, the production of quality agricultural products and the environment, also taking into account article xx of the wto agreement on agriculture.
derogations of eight to ten years should be granted to these states so that they can gradually move towards the wto regulatory framework without neglecting their sustainable development.
many groups state that the wto is an obstacle to further development of social and environmental standards.
protection of the environment, animals, health and consumers.
all the speakers are talking about consumer protection, the precautionary principle and environmental policy.
and we must also be clear that environmental standards and food safety are often contested concepts in this house, that we achieve them within the european union only with difficulty, that the legislation is controversial and that we have established it because of our responsibility to the citizens of the european union to whom we are indebted as elected parliamentarians and not because of tactical protectionism.
a third observation concerns the environment.
the fact that developing countries have a less ambitious environmental agenda than ours will make it clear why.
the fact that the united states - and it does - has a less ambitious environmental agenda than ours certainly poses a more difficult problem for us, because if we have neither the developing countries nor the americans on our agenda, then we will have a very difficult time getting it forward.
the results are therefore not very convincing and the result is a waste of funds.
this is a significant legal act in order to achieve a coherent and sustainable system of control by all the contracting parties in the above-mentioned areas.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, higher levels of ozone and uv radiation have become risk factors for our common living space.
maintaining the ozone layer is one of the priority objectives of our environmental policy.
we all have a responsibility to prevent pollutants from harming people, animals and the whole ecosystem.
this is why substances which destroy the ozone layer must be replaced as quickly as possible by alternative substances.
a report on this and the other parts of the fiscal package will be submitted to the european council by june 2000. as regards environmental policy, the european council stressed the need to intensify work on these issues in the coming years.
the european council decided to work towards creating the conditions for member states to ratify the kyoto protocol before 2002. the conclusions also call on the commission to draw up a proposal for a sixth environmental action programme by the end of 2000. the commission is also invited to draw up, for the european council in june 2001, a proposal for a long-term strategy to ensure that policies aimed at economic, social and environmental sustainable development are consistent.
above all, it sought to achieve sustainable integration into the labour market by strengthening active measures rather than passive ones.
under article 247 (3) of the treaty establishing the european community and the corresponding provisions of the ecsc and euratom treaties, parliament must give its opinion on the nominees before the council, acting unanimously, appoints the members of the court of auditors for a renewable term of six years.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the vote will take place on thursday at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0081/99) by mr valdivielso de cué, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council regulation (euratom, ec) on the provision of assistance for the reform and recovery of the economies of the newly independent states and mongolia (com (98) 753 - c5-0038/1999 - 1998/0368 (cns)).
- the next item is the recommendation (a5-0079/99) by mr bodrato, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the establishment of global technical regulations for wheeled vehicles and equipment and parts which can be fitted and/or be used on wheeled vehicles (parallel agreement) (10167/1999 - com (99) 27 - c5-0073/99 - 1999/0011 (avc)).
- (de) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks on the parallel agreement: the approach chosen, which consists in agreeing on common standards in the light of the globalisation of the economy but also of global requirements for environmental protection, is the right one.
two weeks ago we held a symposium with members of the us congress in this very place, and we discussed this very question, namely the development of a common political philosophy for the harmonization of technical standards, based on economic and ecological requirements.
a year ago, the signatories to the convention on climate change decided to establish a two-year work programme, the buenos aires action plan.
the kyoto mechanisms - emissions trading, joint implementation and clean development mechanism - are part of the protocol.
it is generally recognised that these mechanisms are able to ensure a good cost-effectiveness of climate action.
without this, we would have had little chance of reaching decisions at cop 6. significant progress has also been made on capacity building, technology transfer and adaptation to the effects of climate change.
that is why we need a balanced process between the issues of the kyoto protocol and the underlying issues of the climate change convention.
this brings me to a very important issue which was also raised by parliament in a resolution: the choice of nuclear energy as an option for clean development mechanism projects.
i believe that the environmental and safety problems of nuclear energy are too great to encourage its proliferation in developing countries under the label of a clean development mechanism.
there are excellent alternatives such as renewable energy sources and energy efficiency measures, which are much more in line with the clean development mechanism's objectives of encouraging sustainable development.
hence the need to limit the amount of emissions that one country can sell to another.
cop 6 will have to decide how to ensure that these environmental protection measures are integrated into the overall package of decisions.
we welcome the fact that developing countries such as argentina and kazakhstan are deliberately choosing to reduce their own greenhouse gas emissions.
their participation in international climate change action is of paramount importance for the economic growth prospects of these countries.
we must avoid inflating the environmental permits available under the kyoto mechanisms because this would be detrimental to real emission reductions.
in the framework of the climate change action programme, which i announced to this house in october, the commission is currently focusing on drawing up a list of priority measures in the field of climate change to be presented to the environment council in march.
i am also working to ensure that a green paper on emissions trading within the european community is adopted by the commission in march.
it will enable a broad debate to be held with all interested parties on the approach to be taken to further reduce the cost to our economies of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
we still have a lot of work to do on the technical and political level if we are to implement the kyoto protocol, which would be a first step in the fight against global warming.
i appreciate your commitment to spreading the importance of fighting climate change in europe and to your counterparts in other countries, especially in the us congress.
- (de) mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this century, environmental protection is playing the role it should have played in the face of the great challenge it represents.
it is true that we have made progress in many areas and that some problems, such as water pollution, have been reduced.
but the biggest environmental problem that will hit our planet in the next century has not been, it's actually getting worse by the day.
man is currently producing twice as many greenhouse gases as the world can sustain in the long term.
the countries of the european union account for a significant proportion of these emissions.
there are more climate refugees in the world today than there are war refugees.
all the serious scientists say that in the long run we need to reduce emissions by 50 percent.
in other words, we must reduce our emissions by more than 50% in our industrialized countries and in our european union, because we have to take account of the legitimate interests of developing countries and of population growth.
in the european parliament we support the position of the council and the commission that emissions must be reduced primarily in the industrialized countries.
it is of course good that industrialized countries or companies from industrialized countries invest in energy efficiency or renewable energy in developing countries.
many economic actors recognise that a commitment to environmental protection also offers opportunities to make money and create jobs.
some countries have already reduced emissions somewhat, but there are no model students.
i am particularly concerned that in countries as environmentally friendly as denmark and sweden, emissions are rising just as sharply.
i do not believe that nuclear energy solves all problems, but we certainly do not want our nuclear technology to be exported to unsafe countries and thereby evade our responsibilities.
the problem is aggravated by the planned or completed phase-out of nuclear energy in some european countries.
we must also ensure that an increase in co2 emissions does not increase our credibility.
some have criticised the commission's efforts to resolve this conflict diplomatically as a waste of time and energy.
i have been a member of the european parliament for ten years and have mainly worked on environmental policy and consumer protection.
the commission has already proposed that the council should adopt a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in conclusion, i would like to thank our colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection for taking into account the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development and i really think it is important that on this matter, which is so important for consumers, the european parliament should speak with one voice and send a clear signal.
the coordination between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment was good.
it was here in strasbourg that this very important report was finally approved last monday evening by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
the commission could already foresee at the beginning of the year that the deadlines set would not be sustainable.
these are driven by a criminal energy that surpasses everything.