- (da) mr president, the expression 'accidental marine pollution' is actually a bit strange.
but it also includes all other imaginable types of marine pollution which are hazardous to health and the environment and which often cause considerable damage or even catastrophes to the environment and wildlife.
firstly, it is an environmental problem at all cross-border points and, secondly, it is very useful for us to be able to exchange our experiences and skills with each other so that we can exploit our mutual experiences and help each other in preventing accidents and combating them.
i would like to emphasize four points which i believe are genuine and useful innovations, especially when the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are included.
the first point, which was also discussed at length by mrs mckenna, is to give a broad definition of accidental marine pollution on the one hand and harmful substances on the other.
we must make it clear - and this is equally important - that these are also emissions from the dumping of war material.
the third point i would like to make is the reference in the recitals to the directive on port reception facilities for waste and cargo residues.
i believe that this is also a vital element in the prevention of accidents affecting the marine environment.
we must ensure that ships can easily unload their waste.
- (da) mr president, a good energy policy should aim at radically changing people's behaviour.
the promotion of energy efficiency should therefore be an obvious element of any energy policy.
given the commitments we have made to reduce c02 emissions, it is imperative to set ambitious efficiency targets.
unlike the previous speaker, i would like to see the reduction of co2 emissions accompanied by renewable energy programmes such as the altener programme.
this means that it is not enough, as some wish, to let nuclear energy replace the present power stations which are responsible for co2 pollution.
it is often argued that nuclear energy is one of the cleanest sources of energy, which does not emit greenhouse gases.
technical progress in recent years has significantly improved the efficiency of renewable energy sources and we should increase our efforts to promote renewable energy sources rather than allocate such resources to the european nuclear industry, as the community is knowingly doing.
in february 1998, following criticism from the wto appellate body, the commission commissioned 17 studies to provide additional information on risks in areas such as toxicology, misuse and environmental aspects.
- (da) mr president, i believe that the discussions on free trade in the context of the millennium round should also consider the situation of the poor countries, the rights of workers and the environment.
if we want the negotiations to include workers' rights, the environment, consumer protection, investment and competition, the eu must send a clear signal that it intends to put common interests ahead of the maintenance of narrow personal interests.
- (da) the climate change we have been witnessing in recent decades is one of the greatest environmental challenges we have ever faced.
the eu and its member states must therefore meet the stated target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2010, and more ambitious targets are desirable for the future.
this may lead to lower environmental standards for the individual, but it does not underestimate the consequences of such actions on climate change.
if we reduce the ceiling to 50%, we will, in my view, discredit the eu's climate policy and we will especially discredit the eu's credibility in the upcoming climate negotiations.
- (da) it is absolutely essential, mr president, that measures be taken to integrate the environmental dimension into energy policy and i therefore welcome the commission's communication.
the kyoto targets present a major challenge and sustainability must be the constant guiding principle for any future energy policy.
it may reduce co2 emissions, but this type of energy creates a host of new environmental problems.
it is high time the eu started to prioritise its own objectives, which are to double the production of renewable energy sources.
the commission said as recently as last week that it was ready to put forward a proposal for a new european directive to severely limit national aid schemes for renewable energy.
the directive provided that national support schemes for renewable energy would be available, beyond the first 5%, to producers in all eu countries.
in practical terms, such a proposal would mean that the reinforcement measures for renewable energy would no longer be valid after 5%, since i do not know of any national finance minister who would be willing to finance the development of projects in other countries.
and the danish energy plan, which aims to ensure that 20% of our energy supply comes from renewable energy sources by 2003, would run into serious difficulties.
i therefore hope that when the commission presents a new proposal it will take up its own communication to strengthen the integration of the environment into the community's energy policy and that it will actively contribute to the increased use of renewable energy sources.
- (da) air pollution resulting from the emission of dangerous substances into the atmosphere is a transboundary environmental problem, which causes a serious deterioration in human health.
i therefore welcome the initiative taken by the commission to draw up a proposal for a directive on limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide.
it is vital, however, that the proposal also requires that the public be provided with information on air quality from very strict controls of the levels of benzene and carbon monoxide in the atmosphere.
i also welcome the decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy to strengthen the requirements for the accessibility and comprehensibility of data so that the public can be kept informed at all times of air quality and possible pollution problems from hazardous emissions.
- (da) the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted today in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the preparation of the helsinki european council of 10 and 11 december 1999, because we generally agree with the recommendations contained in the proposal on the important topics on the agenda, such as employment, the environment, enlargement, etc.
thirdly, we must define precisely the concept of accidental pollution by gmos.
such food must have clear benefits for consumers and must not pose any risks to the environment or animal welfare.
the risks associated with the ingestion of these products and the long-term consequences for the environment and biodiversity need to be further investigated.
this document, dated october of this year, says, among other things, that if the overall and sustainable competitiveness of the eu's forestry-based and related industries is to be guaranteed, an environment that encourages fair competition and the adaptation of the eu's industrial sector to more fierce competition will have to be put in place.
- (da) mr president, reducing far too high c02 emissions is one of the main challenges in the fight for sustainable development and i would like to stress, as an introduction, that nuclear energy is not a renewable energy source and therefore cannot be counted among the flexible mechanisms approved in kyoto, such as the mechanism for sustainable development.
the use of nuclear energy cannot impede the transition to a more sustainable energy supply.
if the eu is to meet its obligations under the kyoto protocol, it must instead contribute to the development of renewable energy and seek satisfactory environmental solutions to reduce the current level of c02 emissions.
in this connection, i would like to point to a study by the european entrepreneurs' association which shows that it would be possible to reduce total co2 emissions in europe by 12% through improved energy efficiency in buildings.
in addition to improving energy efficiency through building insulation, up to 300 000 stable jobs could be created in the eu over a period of ten years.
both the council and the commission have previously recognised the enormous potential for energy savings in the construction sector.