turning to economic matters, the question of energy taxation has been mentioned here.
on the other hand, however, we must discuss further how we should deal with animal waste products in general.
such a black and white policy in this area is not possible, however, if we do not want to run the risk of finding ourselves with enormous difficulties in terms of waste disposal.
however, apart from this shared feeling, i am also pleased for other reasons, in particular because i hope that this will put an end to the unhealthy climate which is hampering the discussion of community subjects.
we need a new contract with the peoples who make up the european union to ensure employment, prosperity, the defence and adaptation of our social model, the preservation of our environment and the defence of consumers, in order to achieve a foreign and security policy which will enable us to welcome those countries wishing to take part in our common adventure, and which will enable us to guarantee the stability of our continent, to the east and also to the south, in the mediterranean basin.
it is not just a question of ensuring sustainable job-creating growth in the context of the globalisation of the economy or of proposing a thoroughgoing institutional reform for the next intergovernmental conference; nor is it simply a question of advancing the problem of enlargement of the union and thus contributing to the well-being of europe as a whole, despite the obvious importance of these challenges.
- the council is aware that countries with very long coastlines have a heavy responsibility in implementing community legislation on maritime safety and the protection of the environment against nuisance caused by ships.
"negotiations, which cover a wide range of issues including labour standards, the environment, development and transparency", they said, "are the most appropriate way to achieve substantial and balanced results that benefit all wto member countries".
- question no 16 by mr ioannis theonas (h-0440/99):subject: situation in kosovoit has been more than two months since kfor was installed in kosovo: not only has it not helped to ease the situation in the region or consolidate a climate of stability, security and peaceful coexistence among the population, but on the contrary the abnormal situation caused by nato bombing is being exacerbated and worsened.
i call question no 18 by mr manuel medina ortega (h-0443/99): subject: construction of a nuclear power station in southern morocco is the council aware of the proposed construction of a nuclear power station in southern morocco to desalinate seawater and could it possibly discuss with the moroccan government alternative solutions, given the environmental impact of this project and the risks it poses to the security of the region?
the purpose of this convention, which entered into force on 24 october 1996, is to achieve and maintain a high level of nuclear safety at world level by developing national measures and developing international cooperation, and to organise and maintain effective radiation protection in nuclear power stations, in order to protect individuals, society and the environment from the harmful effects of ionising radiation which may emanate from these installations.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0016/99) by mr langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the community (altener) (1998-2002) (7122/1/1999 - c5-0032/1999 - 1997/0370 (cod))
the commission is aware of the fact that the european parliament has been involved in the negotiations on the altener programme since the amsterdam treaty was adopted.
i would therefore like to thank the responsible member, mr langen, who is continuing the work of his predecessor, mr robles piquer, a great promoter of these renewable energies.
in some ways, mr langen and mr robles piquer show that this is not an ideological problem, that we must not confuse questions of liberalism or non-liberalism with what should be our common objective, namely the promotion of the use of renewable energies in europe.
it is also a promotion which corresponds to and responds to two fundamental objectives of european energy policy.
firstly, an energy policy which respects the environment, an energy policy which is concerned with the future of our planet, is what must characterize energy policy, but also any policy worthy of the name, at the dawn of the 21st century.
secondly, we must look at an element which is a major concern in europe, namely our dependence on third countries for energy supplies.
when we are able to achieve the target of doubling our sources of renewable energy supply, which would take us from 6% to 12%, we will be able to reduce our dependence on third countries, some of which are likely to be in more or less difficult situations in the future.
i must say, mr president, that the first altener programme, and then the white paper on renewable energies, which developed the community strategy and action plan for 2010, were made possible, i stress once again, by the collaboration between our two institutions, parliament and the commission, and that the new policy of the european union on renewable energies was built precisely thanks to our good understanding.
the second altener programme is now being extended and incorporated into the multiannual framework programme for energy action.
as regards amendment no 1, the commission has always considered that renewable energy and energy efficiency policies are closely linked, as some speakers have pointed out, and that coordination between the two policies is paramount.
as regards amendment no 6, i would remind you that the commission welcomed the report presented by parliament on the new prospects for the european union in the field of exports of technology and services for the use of renewable energies when it was presented in plenary on 15 january.
however, rather than a new action, the question is whether recital 25 does not already reflect the need to give priority to exports in order to improve the position of the european industry, which is the world leader in certain renewable energies, and to which some speakers have referred, as it is true that we have clear advantages in this respect compared to other producers.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr langen once again on his contribution to the continuation and strengthening of the altener programme, because it must not be forgotten that this programme, although not financial, is our main instrument for implementing the european union's strategy on renewable energies.
there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a fundamental question for the whole of the directive on access to the electricity grid from renewable sources.
it will undoubtedly be a fundamental instrument to see if we are able to promote the use of this type of energy in our countries.
you are aware that renewable energy sources in the support systems - except for hydroelectric energy, where very competitive results are obtained compared with other energy sources - cannot compete with traditional energy sources.
there is no doubt that the possibility of having access to the grid and of formulating sufficiently flexible proposals will allow us to cover the various instruments that the different member states have used, which are not homogeneous but different, and that we can ensure that renewable energies will not only be maintained but also developed, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years.
i would like to thank you again and add that i hope that at the time of the last revision we will be able to find the final formula and thus give a boost to the altener programme, a programme which clearly encourages the use of renewable energies in europe.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0015/99) by mrs ahern, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council decision adopting a multiannual programme to promote energy efficiency (save) (1998-2002) (7123/1/99 - c5-0033/99 - 97/0371cod))
the commission.
- mr president, i would like to thank parliament once again, and in particular mrs ahern, for the work done and the continued support for the commission's policy on improving energy use and increasing energy efficiency as envisaged by the save programme.
once approved, this programme will become an important part of the multiannual energy framework programme and will bring greater transparency and coordination to our energy programmes, allowing parliament to exercise its oversight powers in the interests of european citizens.
as regards amendment no 4, there is an obvious need for complementarity, as we have just said in the altener programme, with regard to actions in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
all this is one of the fundamental objectives of the multiannual energy framework programme, which is precisely to improve complementarity and coordination on the ground.
we cannot therefore accept amendments nos 1 and 3, and part of amendment no 6. the save programme is intended to provide a framework for action in the field of energy efficiency.
secondly, i would mention the kyoto target, where there is no doubt that energy efficiency is of fundamental importance.
the commission will shortly be presenting - it is scheduled to be on the agenda of the next council meeting on 2 december - the action plan on energy efficiency and we will then have the opportunity to discuss these matters in depth.
as regards the last subject i have to deal with, namely the participation of certain central and eastern european countries, i would like to point out that there are currently ten countries benefiting from the save programme, which is designed to encourage improvements in energy efficiency.
comparing energy efficiency data shows differences of 1 to 5 and 1 to 6 compared to some central and eastern european countries.
in conclusion, mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs ahern and thank all the members for their constructive participation in this matter, and the parliament for its support for the commission in this area, and i would simply say that we are talking about a very important subject, namely the intelligent use of resources and energy.
and i would say today that the european parliament, which has encouraged and followed closely the negotiation process, giving an impetus and acting as a spur, will put the same energy into monitoring the application of the agreement and its results.
the phare programme receives €98 million, tacis €68 million, humanitarian aid to turkey €15 million, kosovo €21 million, cooperation with south africa €20 million and the environment and tropical forests programme €10 million.
priority should be given to the growing threat to the environment posed by the dilapidated waste water treatment plants, oil refineries and chemical plants located, for example, in novi sad or pancevo.
- question no 35 by mr ioannis marinos (h-0478/99) subject: raising the awareness of the european citizen about the european union the european union spends a fortune on publishing thousands of prospectuses on its activities, which, among other things, involves the use of huge quantities of paper, which has few environmental benefits.
- question no 41 by glenys kinnock (h-0496/99) subject: common service for the environment the commission should be made litania of the difficulties faced by ngos in the north and south in obtaining funds to finance projects already accepted by the former dg viii.
and i think that one of the messages - and i am now addressing the presidency of the council - that we must convey in helsinki is that the climate for the luxembourg negotiations must be improved.
we are taking other practical steps to adapt to the new political climate.
i hope that the improvement in the political climate will lead to further progress in these areas.
on the other hand, our society is rightly concerned about the challenges posed by globalisation: respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, protection of the environment and nature, and protection of the health of our consumers.
- (pt) mr president, as stated in the introduction to the commission's report on the draft communication to the council and the european parliament, european public opinion is increasingly concerned today by the debates on the impact of trade liberalisation on employment, the distribution of wealth, development, the environment, health and consumer protection, as well as cultural diversity, the intensification of the marginalisation of poor countries.
i think we should add to this the strategic value of agriculture in certain exporting regions of the european union, which have also been given special recognition in the amsterdam treaty, such as the 'outermost regions', which require special attention during the millennium round negotiations so that the decisions taken in seattle safeguard their agricultural interests and guarantee their social, cultural, economic and environmental survival, especially after the cologne summit.
democracy, human rights and the environment will of course be at the heart of the negotiating cycle.
first question: can we, should we, do impact analyses of something like a round on the economy or the environment?
this is less obvious for the environment, to the extent that the commission has taken the initiative to start an environmental impact study in connection with the round we are about to launch.
- the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the forthcoming world conference on climate change from 25 october to 5 november 1999 in bonn: implementation of the kyoto convention.
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we must thank you for agreeing on most of the points with the european parliament's resolution, which is nothing less than the european parliament's philosophy on climate change.
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we in this parliament now all agree on the need to tackle the problem of climate change in a rigorous way in order to respect a commitment made by the european union but also because of the undeniable importance of the problem on a global scale.
the first thing we must avoid is thinking that economic development inexorably implies further environmental deterioration.
the introduction of low-cost efficiency measures would reduce emissions significantly.
in this sense, before adopting measures such as the energy tax, we should ensure that these strategic actions are adopted and that the greenhouse gas production measures are reliable, so that we can monitor the evolution of the problem effectively in all countries.
i do not know how the debate is going in other member states, but in my own country it is no secret that reducing emissions will require major changes.
many meps have raised the need for economic guidance and an environmental tax.
i will simply say, and this is the finnish position, that we consider it very important that the european union should make progress towards the establishment of a common environmental taxation, and we also discussed the possibility that those member states which are willing to do so could make more rapid progress.
in my country, for example, we have found ourselves in a situation where a national environmental tax - the first version of it - has been condemned as contrary to community competition rules.
i do, however, consider energy taxes to be a means of forcing market forces to implement emission reductions and to develop new, modern and clean technologies, and i consider this extremely important.
the kyoto protocol and also the climate treaty stipulate that if a grouping of economic cooperation between states, such as the european union, is unable to achieve the objectives as a whole, the objectives set on behalf of that grouping are the responsibility of all member states, in other words if some member states cannot meet their commitments, the whole union will suffer.
in conclusion, i would like to stress that the claim often made in the debate that if nothing is done, the climate will warm by two degrees in a hundred years is false.
if we allow evolution to continue without intervention, without a determined climate policy, the climate will warm by more than two degrees in a hundred years, and therefore all the consequences will be much more dramatic.
i have tried today to explain how the commission and i were going to tackle this problem, how it should be analysed, how we should develop a strategy and an action programme which would review one after another the various greenhouse gases, how exactly we would tackle them.
the threat of predicting the flight of jobs to other countries has repeatedly proved to be futile, and it has been found that regulations stimulate the search for environmentally friendly technologies and a more efficient and ecological use of energy, which is precisely what we are aiming for.
the members of the environment directorate-general were of course involved in the drafting of this text.
on the subject of emissions trading, i think we should first have a concrete proposal.
as far as energy taxation is concerned, i cannot say how long it will take to implement it.
if it takes too long, i will be ready to support a proposal for some countries to step forward to lead the way and prove that this can be an effective way to achieve results in the fight against climate change.
we will present you with a green paper before the end of the year describing a system of emissions trading, a set of flexible mechanisms.
i cannot give exact dates: the question of energy taxation has been on the agenda for six years.
given the obvious failure to comply with the provisions of the regulation, the delays in the communication of the annual lists, the growing number of vessels using the gear in question, the damage to the tuna fishery and the marine ecosystem, the serious economic damage to fishermen in the north-west of the bay of biscay and the fact that the eu has not followed up the recommendations of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccst) to combat overfishing of this species, what measures does the council intend to take to ensure that community legislation in this area is strictly respected?
obviously there is non-compliance, there are delays of more than four months in the communication of lists, the number of vessels has increased - between 57% and 63%, more in ireland and england - when it should have decreased, the ecosystem has suffered damage, people have suffered economic damage and the ices recommendations are not being incorporated.
- (es) mr president-in-office of the council, we all agree that control is an essential element in ensuring sustainable fisheries.
first, in an environment of price stability, the allocation of resources by market mechanisms according to their optimal use is more efficient.
secondly, in a climate of price stability, the risk of inflation in interest rates, in particular long-term interest rates, is reduced, which improves the conditions for financing investment.
thirdly, sustainable price stability promotes greater social justice and helps to protect the most vulnerable elements of our society, such as pensioners and the unemployed, who depend on fixed incomes and who do not have other assets, such as property or shares, to offset the cost of inflation.
attempts to exploit monetary policy to push real economic activity above its sustainable level will only result in ever higher inflation in the long run, without accelerating economic growth.
sound public finances contribute to strengthening the conditions for price stability and to achieving strong and sustainable growth that creates jobs.
we also agree with the proposed measures to increase transparency and with the need for the european central bank to explain what it means by monetary policy, apart from price stability - its main function, of course - as this would certainly contribute to the implementation of a relevant and balanced policy mix, the aim of which would be to promote sustainable development and employment.
it is true that with the maastricht treaty those who, like myself, believed that price stability was a sine qua non without which sustainable development was not possible and that a central bank was needed to control inflation won.
we agree with you, mr president of the ecb, when you say that price stability is a necessary condition for growth, and that there can be no growth and no job creation without a climate of guaranteed price stability.
this work should initially focus on a limited number of forms of crossborder crime such as financial crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, including the exploitation of women, the sexual exploitation of children, high-tech crime and environmental crime.
it has been said that europe must create an environment for our businesses.
but we must also have a corresponding environment for our citizens, and both will have to be established at the same time.
in addition, in this area of institutional and legislative intervention, i think that the proposals to shift the taxation of labour costs and the taxation of workers to the environment are of great interest.
they are based on a very realistic assessment that europe, a region where powerful social forces are at work, will be drawn into social conflicts which will have a direct impact on economic stability, in other words on the environment essential for the development of competition and enterprises, if it lacks social cohesion.
but it is clear that the political forces can intervene, in the manner i have mentioned, in the area of reinvestment of profits, by determining the extent to which these profits are reinvested in advanced technologies, in environmental protection or in human resources.
nevertheless, we have recently moved to cooperative positions, through the eu-morocco agreements, even though there are other problems that are still unresolved, such as agriculture (tomatoes), the environment (nuclear energy policy) and the sahara referendum, which affects us globally in a significant way.
it is also not good for the climate of the negotiations that we are putting ourselves on display, because of the absurd desire to be in the forefront of the stage, as was the case this morning with the resolution that various political groups, including mine, have presented.
i was also asked whether the agreement was sustainable for the future and to what extent the satellite monitoring system was being used to monitor activities effectively.
- (es) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberal group supports this initiative, which it considers very timely in order to ensure the necessary consensus in the economic and social framework, which is absolutely essential in order to achieve a climate of stability, growth and job creation in the european union.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0049/1999) by mr gahrton, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the people's republic of china (com (99) 0287 - c5-0038/1999 -1999/0123 (cns)).
firstly, these are agreements which were adopted quickly, and i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, as well as the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the committee on foreign affairs, human rights, common security and defence policy and the committee on budgets, for examining the proposals in a timely manner.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0048/1999) by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for cooperation in science and technology between the european community and the russian federation (com (99) 324 - c5-0083/1999 - 1999/0133 (cns)).
i would also like to stress that we are facing a good example of how a country which has not yet reached its maximum level of development, will, thanks to this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation, commit itself to a form of sustained and environmentally friendly growth through the use of renewable energies.
- (es) mr president, first of all i would like to express my deepest satisfaction with this initiative, which is undoubtedly an important step towards transparency of information on the environmental characteristics of the car and which will, in this sense, facilitate consumer choice.
nevertheless, i would like to briefly touch on the aspect which is at the origin of this directive: the energy efficiency of cars.
from the choice of raw materials for the car, through its manufacture, the production process, use and finally recycling or final disposal of the car when it is no longer used by the buyer, we will not be able to take really meaningful action in the context of reducing greenhouse gases.
in this sense, i believe that this is the only way in which we can ensure that the car stops wasting between 80 and 85% of its energy - just think about it!
therefore, the commission can accept, in principle, to consider extending the scope of the concept of eev to include other automotive characteristics such as noise pollution, fuel consumption and other propulsion technologies.
the commission can also support the amendments relating to the extension of the directive to other alternative fuels, ethanol in this case, the amendment on tax benefits for retrofitting old vehicles, the amendment to include commercial vehicles in the overall community strategy on co2 emissions and the amendment on the quality of liquefied petroleum gas.
the commission can also support in principle the amendment on the control strategies for abnormal emissions, but we would prefer to postpone the reporting date.
a deadline of the end of 2002 would allow the commission to fully assess the effects of the new test cycles which will be introduced next year in the new european vehicle emissions regulation.
although laboratory tests are promising, we have no certainty as to the long-term operational efficiency of these devices, which is necessary if we are to make them a viable and sustainable technical solution to ensure emission control.
at the berlin summit and in the framework of the interinstitutional agreement, the council, parliament and the commission agreed on the establishment of the agricultural expenditure ceiling and, in so doing, on the sustainable stabilisation of the share of agriculture in the general budget.
the main aims of the directive are: to limit the current tar content in cigarettes; introduction, for the first time, of a limitation on the nicotine content, as well as on carbon monoxide; improved quality and larger labels informing about the dangers of smoking and the tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide content of cigarettes; control of misleading use of terms such as 'light' or 'low tar content' etc.
they will also be protected by measures to limit tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide.
the country is facing terrible social and environmental problems.
oomen-ruijten (h-0619/99):is the commission (in particular the commissioners responsible for the environment and agriculture) aware that the european directive on nitrates (91/676/eec) oj l 375, 31.12.1991, p. 1. does not offer a watertight guarantee as regards the quality of groundwater, as it focuses exclusively on nitrates from animal manure and therefore ignores a number of other sources of nitrates?
the commission is aware of the difficulties faced by several member states in applying this directive but considers it to be an important element of its policy to tackle the problem of water pollution.
there is a range of funding at national and european level - such as agri-environmental measures and the structural funds - that can be used to assist conversion and social impact management for a transitional period.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected from eutrophication.
the commission notes that modernization is generally very slow in the social and health sectors, but that efforts are being made to establish sustainable social security networks.
- (es) mr president, commissioner, it is undeniable that the increased development of trade and the new challenges posed by globalisation, as well as the need to consolidate a fair trading system that contributes to sustainable development for the benefit of the least developed countries, require a strengthening of the rules governing international trade.
these are two activities linked to the sustainable exploitation of nature and both influence the economic and social cohesion of the european territory.
and for this free trade to be a fair free trade, it is obvious that we must reconcile trade standards with standards concerning environmental protection, workers' rights, the european agricultural model or consumer protection.
there are other international treaties, such as those concluded within the world labour organisation, the world intellectual property organisation and multilateral environmental agreements.
but the next round of negotiations must also address new issues: development, the environment, health and safety, basic social standards, competition and its transparency, minimum investment rules and the promotion of cultural diversity.
thirdly, why delay the negotiation of the rules, which our civil society rightly demands and which developing countries expect to incorporate trade liberalisation and sustainable development, in dimensions such as health, the environment and the fundamental rights of workers?
while special and differential treatment remains essential for developing countries, it should encourage them to implement sustainable development strategies, not exempt them from them.
in the field of environment, many concerns focus on the applicability of environmental measures to wto rules.
one of our goals is to ensure mutual compatibility in this context, which would allow environmental or other measures to be implemented in accordance with wto rules.
the council conclusions on nuclear safety in the light of enlargement stress that when countries are using reactors that cannot be retrofitted at reasonable cost to internationally recognised safety standards, energy sector strategies should provide for the permanent shutdown of these reactors as soon as possible according to a defined timetable, in line with the priorities of associated countries and in compliance with the requirements of the nuclear accounting treaties.
in addition, the council indicated its willingness, through the means at the disposal of the european union and the member states, to support the development of alternative energy sources to compensate for the closure of the least reliable nuclear power plants, taking into account the overall situation and the particular conditions and needs of each country.
the associated countries of central and eastern europe or the european countries of efta or the eea, participate in all important community actions concerning the development of renewable energy sources or energy efficiency.
these countries can participate in the altener ii programme, an action programme for the uptake of alternative energy sources, and in save ii, which focuses on energy efficiency.
- (fi) mr president, it is perfectly clear that the disadvantages of the different modes of energy production can be assessed.
of course, there is no one hundred per cent reliable measurement method, but if you think about the greenhouse effect, for example, it is quite clear that nuclear power does not cause co2 emissions, which makes it far superior to coal and gas, for example.
but i would like to stress that when nuclear energy is used, it must be used in a way that provides all the safeguards.
it is clear that the union cannot tolerate the existence of energy production methods which are liable to harm the health of citizens within the union's borders.
you know that the council has drawn up legislation to assess and reduce the risks posed by harmful substances to the environment and human health.
the council of environment ministers also approved on 24 june the council conclusions on the future development of community chemicals policy.
i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the canaries are experiencing uncertainties about the future of the banana, the canaries being the leading european producer of this fruit, which is so important from an economic, social, landscape and environmental point of view.
the european union must, commissioner, use all the political, economic, financial and commercial means at its disposal to enforce international standards and put a stop to korean dumping once and for all, because the european industry can be viable in a fair competitive environment.
rather than talk about his role in the transition - he has done it very well - i would like to talk about the human relationship we have had in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for six years.
she has worked hard to protect the spanish and european environment, and it is terrible that we have lost her at such a young age.
the need for the rapid establishment of a legislative environment for e-commerce should therefore also be taken up in the conclusions.
i thank you for the debate in this chamber, because it was very objective and brought many very valuable and important remarks, particularly to turkey, because turkey will have to judge the political climate in europe about its desire to join the european union.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0065/1999) by mrs breyer, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in ambient air (com (98) 591 - c4-0135/1999 - 1998/0333 (cod)).
commission - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and, of course, in particular the rapporteur, mrs breyer, for her excellent report.
there are many areas where the commission can accept the constructive amendments proposed by the committee on the environment.
we therefore accept amendments nos 1 and 6. i share the view of the committee on the environment that the most contentious point concerns the limit values for benzene and the timetables for reaching them.
however, it is clear that the ease with which problems can be solved depends to some extent on the climate.
the commission agrees with the committee on the environment that indoor conditions have a significant impact on health but we do not think that this proposal offers us the means to tackle this problem.
the subject is much broader and goes beyond benzene and carbon monoxide.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by pollution.
the commission accepts amendment no 8, which requires more information on carbon monoxide and considers that it improves its proposal.
annex 6, point ii, deals with data on pollution levels.
at present there are no community limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0064/1999) by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision establishing a programme for the monitoring of the average specific emissions of co2 from new passenger cars (com (98) 348 - c5-0041/1999 - 1998/0202 (cod)).
- (es) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is the second reading, as the president said, of a common position of the council on the reduction of co2 emissions from new vehicles.
it should be remembered that this second reading is an attempt to achieve the kyoto targets, which were subsequently agreed in bonn, for greenhouse gas emissions, targets which still seem modest to us.
if we take into account the report of the european environment agency, which said that we had to reduce emissions by 30%, the targets proposed to us are modest.
at first reading, 45 amendments were tabled in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and they were approved by a large majority.
they were approved, with one abstention, by over 40 votes in favour in the committee on the environment.
these are amendments which take up some of the issues which seemed important to the majority of the committee on the environment at first reading.
some simply take up changes in terms, such as amendment no 1, which says that we must not just stabilise greenhouse gas emissions, in this case co2, we must reduce them.
i would like to point out that parliament in general, and the committee on the environment in particular, is sceptical about the actual results of voluntary agreements.
we also want the report that the commission is to present to the council and the european parliament to analyse whether the possible reduction in co2 emissions is due to technical measures by industry or to consumer habits.
but we feel we must insist on some of the 10 amendments which we are putting back here because they were actually approved almost unanimously, with one abstention, in the committee on the environment.
we are well aware of the difficulty the council has in convincing the 15 member states of a proposal with such characteristics, but it must be said that, having consulted practically all the groups, they insist that we must retain these amendments and i am defending the environment committee's proposal here.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the environment, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs gonzález álvarez, for the diligence with which she has dealt with this matter.
it is in the interest of all parties that this decision be taken without further delay, so that we can implement objective monitoring of the environmental agreements which have been concluded with the automobile industry.
following a request made by the european parliament at first reading, the commission is now taking the first steps to include fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions of light commercial vehicles in the type-approval legislation: these are therefore vehicles of category m1.
the commission will then examine whether it is possible to reduce the carbon dioxide emissions from these vehicles.
therefore, there are currently no plans to study the possibility of including other types of vehicles, mainly because it is hoped that they, for example trucks, can achieve high fuel efficiency, or because they are vehicles (for example two-wheelers) that contribute only a small share of carbon dioxide emissions at local level.
the commission intends to take this into account and to reword the proposed text as follows: 'the commission is considering the possibility of submitting reasonable proposals to harmonize the procedures for measuring specific emissions of carbon dioxide emitted by vehicles of category m1 in accordance with annex iii to directive 70/156. "
the second part of the reasoning refers to the second and third pillars for the strategy to be adopted on carbon dioxide emissions from motor vehicles, opting in this case for consumer information and the application of fiscal measures.
as regards amendment no 9 on the content of the annual report, the rapporteur would like to add a new article which would define more clearly the content of the report, namely, inter alia, an analysis of the relationship between the evolution of carbon dioxide emissions and the efforts made by the car manufacturers, or other factors which fall within the scope of our strategy.
it is important to carry out such an analysis to determine whether the manufacturers are actually undertaking the tasks to which they have committed themselves under the environmental agreement.
it recommends that the commission should draw up a legal framework for environmental agreements.
that is why we are currently working on a general document on environmental agreements, their legal framework and the corresponding institutional procedures.
with regard to the agreements on co2 emissions from passenger cars which have already been concluded or are in the process of being concluded, the commission has repeatedly stressed that the legislation on emission thresholds would be subject to monitoring if the automotive industry does not meet its commitments.
in conclusion, i should like to express my satisfaction that the common position has been received so positively by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment.
we will then be able to monitor in sufficient detail the implementation of the environmental agreements concluded with the automobile industry.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0044/1999) by mr sjöstedt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council decision concerning the adoption, on behalf of the community, of amendments to the annexes to the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the baltic sea area (helsinki convention) (com (99) 128 - c4-0218/1999 - 1999/0077 (cns)).
- (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the committee on the environment and the rapporteur, mr sjöstedt, for the work he has done in examining the amendments to annexes iii and iv to the helsinki convention.
as you know, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy adopted the report on 19 october 1999. i am glad that we have had the opportunity to discuss this in plenary today.
annex iii, as has been said, is mainly concerned with agricultural waste.
the proposed changes are aimed at reducing emissions of nitrogen, phosphorus and plant protection products from agriculture.
the second annex aims to reduce emissions from ships.
this can strengthen the results of environmental work on the baltic sea.
the helsinki convention should also include efforts to achieve sustainable development in the region.
the commission is therefore aware of the need for intensive environmental work around the baltic.
experience has shown that from certain sizes the plant has no chance of surviving in an environment, as is the case in many parts of southern europe where the drought conditions are very extreme.
the outer quality of the plant has a significant impact, not only on the percentage of plants that survive, which can go from 85% to 20%, but also on future development in the extremely harsh conditions of their transplantation in this climate.
the environment of the whole of europe has an interest in plantings being carried out correctly and a good part of them not failing.
i come now to amendment no 7. the commission says this in the first part of article 5 (2) (b): the procedures ensuring the equivalence of the environmental risk assessment and other relevant elements with those laid down in council directive 90/220/eec.
the payment system has certainly worked very well on large transactions, whereas - and we all agree - the problem of excessive commissions currently charged on foreign exchange is creating a negative environment because we expected a decrease in the cost of foreign exchange during this period and our expectations were disappointed.
the socialists want to encourage measures which distinguish high-quality fishery products and also call for sustainable management of resources to ensure the future of fisheries.
better planning should lead to a reduction in withdrawals and thus avoid waste.
if we are to strive for sustainability in the fishing industry, we must not encourage the destruction of our resources.
however, this does not prevent spain from being particularly affected by the ban on one of the substances, methyl bromide, which has recently been mentioned, and from making it known that it is determined to achieve the eradication of the use of certain toxic substances which deplete the ozone layer.
the spanish delegation of the european people's party therefore considers it necessary to maintain in plenary the amendments relating to the first paragraph of article 3 (2) and the last paragraph of article 21, which set out the derogations and conditions for the use of methyl bromide after 2006. we believe that this parliament must set standards which all member states can respect without seriously affecting their economic, social and environmental situation.
it is this spirit, and not the emotionally laudable but unrealistic voluntarism of environmental protection, which is driving us to table these amendments today.
nevertheless, rail transport has enormous advantages over long distances, especially because - and this is also very important to mr messner - the environment, nature, suffers less.
firstly, it is absolutely imperative that there should be as close coordination as possible under the auspices of the g8 and the international atomic energy agency.
the two degrees of warming forecast by 2010 if no action is taken, the rise in sea levels, the disappearance of small islands and many of the disasters that have occurred in the last two years, which according to experts are linked to climate change, are facts that should compel us to take immediate and concrete action.
the resolution adopted in the committee on the environment is in line with this.
among other things, precisely - and the fact that commissioner wallström said this reassures us - the severe criticism of the pressure exerted by the nuclear industry on bonn for germany to use the nuclear industry as a means of reducing co2 emissions.
we believe that this industry has risks, as the commissioner has very well said, in terms of safety and subsequent use or recycling of waste, risks which are unacceptable.
the environment committee therefore continues to propose renewable energy and to adopt clear measures on transport; the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a single tax base for all transport services, not only for road transport, which is the main source of co2 emissions, but also for air transport, which is a major source of co2 emissions, and so far these sectors have not been taxed adequately.
we support the idea that taxes on heavy goods vehicles should be assessed according to their actual level of pollution and that these sums should be allocated to investments in railways and to investments in road transport combined with railways and finally we stress the idea of distributing 91% of the licences which are not equally distributed between the member states, taking into account the needs of transport as such but also the origin and destination, for example, of goods crossing switzerland from airports or ports such as hamburg, rotterdam, genoa or marseille.
i hope that will be done on january 12. the white paper contains many of the subjects which i have often discussed here and in the committee on the environment.
the author of this question has doubts as to whether it is appropriate to grant this credit to a company with a large asset base and located in an economically flourishing region of particular value and ecological importance.
in view of the links between the ecofin council and the eib board of governors, could the council clarify whether it intends to take measures to make information on eib decisions more transparent and accessible, particularly where these decisions have a significant impact on the development of a region, and whether it considers it necessary to improve the efficiency of eib activities by introducing financial management and accounting procedures that take full account of environmental costs?
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0099/1999 by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on combating late payment in commercial transactions (8790/1999 - c5-0125/1999 - 1998/0099 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr murphy).
europe needs a new business policy climate and an environment where it is easier, cheaper and more encouraging to set up small and medium-sized enterprises.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0101/1999) by mr papayannakis, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 920/97 establishing a system for the identification and registration of bovine animals and regarding the labelling of beef and beef products (com (99) 487 - c5-0241/99 - 1999/0205 (cod)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0093/1999) by mr savary, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 97/787/ec granting exceptional financial assistance to armenia and georgia with a view to extending it to tajikistan (com (99) 391 - c5-00171/1999 - 1999/0172 (cns)).