the concept of the northern dimension of the union, which is coming to the fore, has several aspects relating to the internal security of the eu, including nuclear and environmental security, and the neighbourhood dimension.
finland has rightly stressed that the enlargement process must also have an impact on european development in the fields of environmental protection and social protection.
the aim should be to integrate sustainable development and environmental protection into all community policies, which implies obligations not only for future but also for current member states.
i believe that you want to ensure that civil society can engage openly with policy-makers when discussing the relationship between free trade, human health and environmental protection.
our group would like to emphasize that finland has a significant potential during its presidency to take the european union towards a social and ecological union.
we will give you all our support to finally get the energy tax directive passed.
you spoke of sustainable development, peace and stability.
mrs roth-behrendt has drawn attention to a very important point here: in choosing its priorities and making them public, the commission must really have in mind the real concerns of citizens, such as environmental issues, sustainable development and all that this entails, and the need for consumer protection.
clear, transparent and ethically sustainable activities must be the guiding principle of european decision-making, whether it is the union's internal administrative culture or the safeguarding of citizens' rights and security.
some of us have said, however, that we do not expect much green alignment from the new commission, and subsequently our whole group will ensure that the commission gives sufficient weight to the principles of creating a social europe and sustainable development so that they are taken seriously in all decision-making.
- (fi) mr president, i support the commission's renewable action plan.
the committee on budgets has therefore proposed to the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy that the financial perspective in this area be revised and has given a favourable opinion on this report.
- (fi) mr president, the promotion of the use of renewable energy sources is of paramount importance from an environmental point of view.
the union will not be able to achieve its environmental objectives without actively promoting the use of renewable energy sources.
the altener programme is an important step in the strategy for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
renewable energy sources reduce dependence on imports and their growth also improves competitiveness.
europe must quickly become a leader in renewable energy sources, an area increasingly dependent on new technologies.
the use of renewable energy sources also has a positive effect on regional development and employment.
this unanimity is a good starting point for promoting the use of renewable energy sources.
as noted here, this is not at all obvious in this programme, but increasing the sustainable use of renewable energy sources also requires a lot of research, pilot projects, exchange of study results, legislative harmonization, public preparation, information campaigns and private and public investment which will only be profitable in the long term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
at present, the growth in the use of these energy sources is mainly the responsibility of the member states.
once again, peat was omitted from the list of renewable energy sources.
in finland, peat is an important and widely used renewable energy source.
- (fi) mr president, the share of renewable energy in energy production in the eu is less than 6%.
if we do not secure our energy future, we will not have the slightest chance of securing a rosy future for our citizens.
- (fi) mr president, on the altener programme, i would like to draw particular attention to the nordic energy economy.
in the regions bordering europe, the exceptional climate imposes special requirements, which the european union must take into account.
the use of peat is a plus for nordic energy policy.
in finland, for example, marshes are a significant natural resource and the cubic metres of peat produced in these marshes cover about 7% of finland's energy needs.
peat has not yet been classified as a renewable energy source like wood.
in reality, peat is a renewable natural resource comparable to wood, with simply a longer renewal cycle.
the figure for the emissions from the energy use of peat would be significantly lower if the entire life cycle of the operation and the renewal of the peat were taken into account.
the use of peat is essential if the exploitation of wood for energy production is to be increased.
the exceptional nature of peat must therefore be taken into account when considering european energy taxation.
a healthier and cleaner energy economy requires that peat be defined as a renewable energy source in the future.
europe wants to pursue a social and sustainable agricultural policy and above all to produce clean, high-quality food.
the environment, human and animal health and equity must therefore be fully integrated into the principles on which the negotiations will be based.
the european union must take an aggressive stance to defend its own sustainable development policy.
the others will also have to take into account environmental protection and the protection of human health in their production if trade is to be liberalized.
the european parliament must support you both in your efforts to include the issue of climate change in all european union policies.
we know that the helsinki summit will be the decisive decision on how to take environmental issues in general and climate issues in particular into account.
the commissioner responsible for competition is therefore prepared to study how subsidies and tax-like payments affect climate issues.
perhaps we can then direct subsidies to sectors that serve to promote the objectives of the european union and in particular sustainable development.
i also support the idea that we must make a vigorous effort to put market forces to work to stop climate change.
in this respect, the importance of environmental taxes cannot be underestimated.
mr bolkestein, the commissioner responsible for the internal market, told the european parliament yesterday that he intended to deal with this issue, but unfortunately he said that he still needed a year to convince spain of the real need for an energy tax.
i would be very interested to hear the views of the commissioner and the president of the council on how the common energy tax is progressing, because without it the european union will not be able to achieve its objectives.
- (fi) mr president, we must be able to move beyond the kyoto protocol if the fight against climate change is to produce results; we need a model of action that goes even further than the one the presidency has mentioned.
emission trading should be assessed in terms of how it can affect emissions reductions.
environmental taxation is important, and for that reason it has been discussed here as well.
forest growth as a means of carbon removal remains on the agenda, this debate must be pursued openly, and diversified forest exploitation must also be increased with a view to protecting the environment and combating climate change.
- (fi) mr president, the european parliament is debating today two global issues, trade liberalization and the implementation of the climate change treaty; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter.
we talk about sustainable development in terms of natural economy, but the current of our actions is taking us in the opposite direction.
the development of market forces and technology must be oriented in such a way that, in order to promote sustainable development, words give way to deeds.
effective slowing down of climate change and other environmental changes that are disastrous for human beings requires that we be able to break the chains of materialism, the all-powerful material values that are harmful to both nature and man.
- (en) according to the definition of the kyoto protocol, only forests established in non-forest areas after 1990 can be considered as carbon sinks.
the current definition of 'carbon sinks' for forests is inadequate for european forest regeneration practices.
if we really want to combat climate change and not just develop measures that have nothing to do with the environment, we should consider the entire carbon stock of forests as a carbon sink.
the position of our group is that wishful thinking and cabinet discussions are no longer enough and that economic aid to russia should be limited to humanitarian and environmental aid.
it stressed the importance of cooperation, particularly in the field of environmental and climate research and in the information society and telecommunications technologies sector.
research results should be put to better use for the improvement of the russian environment and economy.
the common currency is an ideal environment for promoting employment.
- (fi) madam president, the draft legislation under consideration is extremely important for the fight against air pollution.
the nitrogen dioxide and ozone levels.
the most important challenge is transport, which is growing rapidly and is expected to double between 1990 and 2006. i think mr lange is quite right in proposing that heavy goods vehicles should be included as soon as possible in a community strategy to reduce co2 emissions from road transport.
the race against emissions must be matched by an acceleration in the implementation of measures to reduce them.
that is why we must also promote environmental limits financially.
let's calculate how much air pollution could be reduced if the engines were shut down.
trucks and buses are polluting the atmosphere more and more because we have done a lot in terms of emissions from passenger cars.
at first reading, parliament successfully imposed strict limit values for emissions of particulate matter which are particularly dangerous to health.
the environment ministers then took up parliament's proposal and we are now looking at a strict line for reducing industrial carbon emissions.
perhaps one of the new resources could be environmental damage compensation taxes, because environmental issues concern everyone, not just the new member states.
zd aid and environmental aid, in particular, are of great importance in less-favoured agricultural areas.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the environmental dimension has become more important over the years, energy policy must continue to aim at ensuring that industry and individuals are supplied with energy at a competitive price.
the environmental dimension also has a role to play in achieving this objective.
however, the environment is not - and cannot be - the main objective of energy policy.
the european union has done a lot in recent years to make the energy sector more sustainable.
we have committed ourselves to significantly reducing co2 emissions by 2005. we have made efforts to increase the use of renewable energy sources and have expressed our firm intention to take into account the requirements of a sustainable energy policy in the enlargement process.
we must recognize, however, that the requirements imposed on community energy policy are often contradictory.
the aim of this report was to initiate a debate on nuclear energy and its viability as a means of production in the future.
there is no denying that there is a contradiction between the anti-nuclear interventions, of which we have heard at least two, and the objective of reducing co2 emissions.
the share of nuclear power in electricity generation should be kept to a minimum at the present level, and perhaps even increased, if we are to achieve the ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions to which you, dear friends, including mrs plooij-van gorsel and mrs ahern, and all the others in this room have committed yourselves.
if the environmental dimension is taken into account adequately, this implies that member states should provide for replacement and renewal investments sufficiently in advance in their national strategies - as this is a matter for decision-making at national level.
nor should we forget the objective of introducing a european energy tax.
in this respect, i share the concerns of mr mombaur, who calls for any increase in energy taxes to be offset by intervention on other forms of taxation of business activities.
it will also be necessary to ensure that the energy model does not prevent the continued exploitation of peat for energy production, which plays a very important role in finland.
the share of renewable energy in the european union will double in ten years, from six to twelve per cent, and the development of combined heat and power plants - cogeneration - using coal and natural gas as fuel is now considered an important factor in reducing co2 emissions.
in my country, the production of cutting waste - which is a source of energy recovered from cutting wood waste - is becoming competitive and is becoming an important part of energy production.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mr chichester rightly points out in his report, the integration of the environmental dimension into european energy policy must be strengthened, but in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the initial responsibility for energy policy lies with the member states.
the environmental dimension must also be integrated into energy policy at local and regional level.
the save and altener programmes, which have recently been revised, are the cornerstones of a sustainable and environmentally friendly energy policy.
energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy must be increased and brought at least to the level required by the ambitious objectives of the european union.
it is necessary to ensure that the networks are also available to small businesses producing renewable energy throughout the european union.
the biggest obstacles to increased use of renewable energy and energy savings are attitudes and ignorance.
for this reason, information plays a key role in promoting more environmentally friendly energy production and use.
the small amount of resources available in the community budget for the promotion of a sustainable energy policy is to be deplored.
member states should also be able to show boldness in using tax and other incentives to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy.
peat, a slow-cycle renewable energy resource, should also be given incentives.
nuclear energy is presented in too favourable a light in the report.
in my view, nuclear power is not the solution to the environmental problems of energy production.
nuclear power is still needed, but safety and waste storage remain serious problems.
i also think that our uncertainty about what we were legally allowed to do showed that our community needed some more energy provisions.
if we want to establish a common foreign, security and defence policy for the european union, we must give it a sustainable moral basis.
i personally support green protectionism because i want people to eat healthy food and to have it produced in accordance with the principle of sustainable development.
the european union is championing a solution that promotes sustainable development in the third world and social justice.
trade policy, for example, must therefore be in line with community policies on developing countries and the environment.
as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i welcome the fact that the aim is to incorporate the precautionary principle into the wto rules.
as the other parties are unfortunately still far behind, the eu needs the help of ngos in its efforts to make the wto an environmentally sustainable organisation, as well as one that promotes health and social welfare.
with the seattle cycle, the wto's powers and power will be considerably increased, and for this reason the eu must ensure that the impacts of trade liberalisation and wto measures can be continuously assessed from an ecological and equitable perspective.
the idea is to replace shipbuilding aid with new types of investment and environmental aid schemes and to give more aid to research and innovation, which our colleague mrs langenhagen has spoken about very well.
although it has been clearly decided to abandon shipbuilding aid, recent developments in south korea must not lead to the confusion of the old shipbuilding aid with measures in line with the 1997 guidelines, the objective of which is not in the context of competition policy but is purely in line with the doctrine of sustainable development and 'safety at sea'.
- (fi) mr president, madam president-in-office, in addition to what has already been said here, the helsinki summit is expected - someone has already alluded to this - to promote environmental protection and to make environmental protection a part of all european union activity.
we must take a big step forward in this respect, because we know how difficult it has been to cut short these developments which are harmful to the environment, and we expect you to show determination and to achieve concrete results in the field of transport, industry and agriculture.
security, stability and the sustainable development goals linked to the nordic dimension are of secondary importance if human rights are forgotten.
coastal areas are particularly important for human activity and the environment.
therefore, all measures that significantly reduce local emissions from agriculture, habitat and recreational use are of paramount importance.
the reconciliation of environmental aspects, efficient agriculture, economic policy, recreational use and, among other things, enlargement, all in a way that ensures the development of the baltic sea, is naturally a great challenge for both administration and policy.
the nordic council, for example, already has a very long experience of implementing environmental policy in the nordic countries and neighbouring areas.
i hope that the nordic dimension can be seen as a good model for ecologically sustainable and comprehensive regional development, and that this can also be seen in other regions of the european union.
- (fi) mr president, the replacement of the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the baltic sea area by the new convention in 1992 is an important step towards improving the state of the environment in the region.
environmental cooperation in the baltic region is an element of the european union's northern dimension policy.
when we are asked, as is often the case, what this policy of the northern dimension means in practice, it is, for example, a concern for the fragile environment of the northern regions.
looking ahead, it would be good to ask how the baltic region's environmental protection structures could be organised in a simple and effective way.
personally, i believe that helcom could provide a framework not only for the core mission itself, namely the protection of the marine environment, but also for the implementation of the baltic agenda 21 programme and possibly for the coordination of rational regional planning.
overall, in the long term, the aim could be to extend the helsinki convention to cover the whole baltic area, with the aim of respecting the principle of sustainable development in all practical actions.
i think it is important that we look at the possibilities for renewing the work of the baltic sea environment protection committee by combining it with the directive on the ecological quality of water which we are also discussing in this house.
even annex iii, which deals with agriculture, does not seem to me to be of such a nature as to give us any hope of anything new in relation to existing environmental strategies and programmes.
i hope, however, that we can adopt an ambitious target on agriculture and the environment in helsinki next week, as has been said before.
- (fi) as a member from a baltic country, i would like to promote the protection of the marine environment in the region in every way.
i am particularly in favour of the amendments on agricultural waste proposed in annex iii.
i think that prevention of pollution is particularly important, but we must take account of the details that have changed, which i would like to mention now.
the member states are strictly complying with the agreement, but in russia and the baltic countries there are many shortcomings in the collection of waste from ships.
the renewal of the rules imposes significant investments on our industry, so it would be essential that these new rules should be used to achieve visible results in environmental protection.
it is now necessary to ensure that this progress is equally balanced in the negotiations and that the candidate countries pay sufficient attention to social security, gender equality, labour issues and environmental protection.
progress has also been made in environmental matters.
the integration of environmental policy into all policy areas and the creation of conditions for a faster ratification of the kyoto agreement have been important steps forward.
we must look at infrastructure development and the environment and set up projects that go beyond the present crisis.
- (fi) mr president, commissioner, the series of climate conferences that began seven years ago in rio have produced beautiful declarations, each with more ambitious objectives.
in its resolutions parliament must not stress that certain measures must take precedence over others but must immediately use all possible means to reduce emissions.
i am referring in particular to emissions trading, which is an effective way of reducing emissions if it is provided with clear rules based on market mechanisms.
it is also very important not to continue to exclude nuclear energy - a source of energy that does not emit co2 - from the flexible mechanisms.
the argument that nuclear energy is not a sustainable energy production method in view of the waste it produces and that it cannot therefore be counted among the clean development mechanisms is simply untenable.
the nuclear energy sector is the only energy sector which includes in its prices the costs of the entire energy production cycle and which therefore assumes full responsibility for the final and safe storage of waste.
to those members who, debate after debate, continue to speak out against nuclear power, i want to say that if the current level of use of nuclear power were to continue, co2 emissions would immediately increase by 800 million tonnes a year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy resources are used to meet the needs of the world's population.
- i just want to say that i am strongly opposed to the liese resolution on climate change as it has been approved by parliament.
nuclear energy has contributed, is contributing and will continue to contribute significantly to the reduction of co2 emissions.