today, this reform of clarification is necessary in a political environment which has changed a great deal since the treaty of amsterdam finally accepted the principle.
for europe to be accepted as something other than a constraint, it must be the bearer of a project that goes beyond the mere construction of an economic and monetary area, even enriched by its social and environmental dimension.
bitter derision and, material waste have added to the human and political damage, and we are now in the front line of community confrontations, in a psychological situation which is aggravated by the destruction which we have brought about.
they offered up our exports as hostages to those countries who want to impose their methods of production on us with all the effects that these may entail, on health, the environment and society.
quality producers who respect the environment must be offered support.
(fr) mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to have been able to address the commissioner for the environment and other commissioners too, because we know very well the harmful effects of dioxins on human health, and this is not merely an agricultural matter.
the european union is responsible for conserving human health and the environment.
how many more times must we have the kind of accident that results from this practice before we put an end to this absurd system which leaves land fallow and farmers, who should be working in order to keep the heritage and the countryside of this europe of ours alive, unable to work because we favour the use of recycled waste, particularly animal waste.
we shall be reopening the wto negotiations, and like everyone else in this parliament, i expect you, the commission to ensure that standards for health, the environment and society are set to limit and restrict this theory, which is becoming more and more dangerous, of a free market whose prime motive is profit.
i am thinking in particular of the sanction imposed, yet again on france, for having allowed certain textile companies to reduce their national insurance contributions at a time when they were taking on new staff in an international climate which, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely tough, largely because of the international agreements negotiated by the commission itself.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution arising from the use of certain substances and preparations is therefore in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
this assessment was later moderated somewhat by pascal lamy, but it is not clear how he would manage globalization without requiring a profound change in the rules of the game, in particular by introducing the notion of social or environmental cost in international negotiations.
we expect that the next negotiations will take into account the fact that we have production structures in europe, environmental and social conditions which lead to costs which must be compensated by public support.
we believe that much of the discrediting of the european union is linked to its inability to combat effectively the ravages of the neoliberal environment.
the greens propose a number of measures concerning the active, comprehensive and massive reduction of working time and the support for sustainable economic activities, which create jobs, in sectors such as housing construction, public transport and renewable energies.
to limit the union's powers by returning to a common market that respects the environment and public health.
i said yesterday - and i say again - that i am strongly committed to helping sustainable development meet all environmental challenges.
what europe of the environment and what concept of sustainable development?
i naturally appreciate the work and the speech of mrs pack, particularly the energy and clarity with which she develops a convincing argument.
- marine pollution, whether accidental or deliberate, is a particularly serious threat to the maritime and coastal areas of the member states of the european union.
in the recent past we have had several tragic examples of accidental pollution in the form of oil spills and other dangerous substances, including chemicals.
the members of the union for europe of nations group believe that in the field of accidental marine pollution, the establishment of a community framework for cooperation is justified by the existence of a genuine common interest.
as regards the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, we voted against all those which call on the eu's coastal neighbours to use the phare, tacis and meda programmes to make a financial contribution towards the establishment of this community framework for cooperation.
- meps in the union for europe of nations group voted against all the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, which aim to convert the commission's recommendation into a directive, for three main reasons: bureaucracy, the legal basis and the structure of the control bodies in the member states of the european union.
the argument that the environment committee is planning a hearing on animal feed should not be an obstacle to debate.
the result: mad cows, poison chickens, dioxin-like substances, waste oil in food oil, sewage sludge in livestock meal, and so on.
first of all, we ask for an inventory of all the toxic substances that can contaminate our food through pollution: air, water and soil.
the commission is therefore proposing a number of measures to improve the quality of products and the environment.
of course, i look forward to discussing these issues with the members in due course and i look forward to participating in the meeting i will have with the committee on the environment later this month when we will be discussing this matter in depth.
i am aware of the time i have and i would like to stress that i will be discussing these matters with you in greater detail in the committee on the environment later this month.
the presence of this is not due to animal feed - for which the tests were originally intended - but to ambient industrial pollution.
i also informed the ministers that i wished to see checks carried out in other member states to determine the presence and levels of dioxin resulting from general environmental factors.
i look forward to the future discussions we will have on these issues, and in particular, as i said earlier, in the committee on the environment later this month.
countries need to make decisions about sustainable and equitable financing.
- mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i already had the opportunity to say last march that i was, and am, as a frenchman, in favour of a very voluntarist policy on energy.
only then can the european union have a sustainable, balanced and secure energy policy.
as regards the langen report, on which i am speaking in more detail, and renewable energy sources, everyone knows the importance of these sources of energy in reducing pollution and preserving natural resources.
we also know the difficulties in penetrating these energies in a liberal market where more traditional energy resources are often much cheaper, not to mention the lack of measures to promote new energies in a voluntary way.
that is why i naturally support the amendments tabled by mr langen which call for the commission to play a more active role in encouraging a coordinated promotion strategy in the member states and in developing europe's export potential for renewable energy technologies.
i also support the call for a renewable energy charter.
in conclusion, i would say that the vote on these two reports is a pledge to the european citizens of the european union's will to protect the environment while reducing our energy dependence.
more specifically, on the eve of the next global conference on climate change to be held in bonn, this is a positive signal that reinforces our kyoto commitment to reduce co2 emissions.
after reasoning with the representatives of the various countries, with the people who opposed me, we came to the conclusion that we must invest more in the training of young people, that we must put more energy into sending high-level officials to brussels.
on amendment no 1, the commission has always taken the view that renewable energy policy and energy efficiency policy are closely linked and should be closely coordinated, but we wonder whether a charter on renewable energy is not premature.
- i already had the opportunity to say this last march, i am in favour of a voluntarist energy policy.
it must stimulate a movement for a rationalization of european energy policy.
to this end, two strategies have been developed in two complementary multiannual programmes forming part of the framework programme for action in the energy sector: save ii (promoting more efficient use of energy) and altener ii (promoting renewable energies).
however, parliament wished to represent several amendments which were discussed in committee, notably the important one concerning the degree of improvement in energy efficiency.
given that the energy efficiency of final consumption has so far improved by around 1% per year, the european commission recommends a further reduction of one percentage point in the energy efficiency of final demand.
as regards altener ii, everyone knows the importance of res in reducing pollution and preserving natural resources.
the difficulties encountered by these energies in entering the market and the reasons for this are also known: traditional energy sources are relatively cheap and stable; the lack of measures to promote res.
i therefore support the amendments tabled by mr langen calling for the commission to play a more active role in encouraging a coordinated promotion strategy within the member states and in developing europe's export potential for renewable energy technologies.
in the same vein, i believe it is essential that the renewable energy charter be adopted as soon as possible.
the vote on these two reports is a pledge to the european citizens of the european union's will to protect the environment while reducing our energy dependence.
for example, our parliament adopted an amendment by my group calling for a review of the wto mechanisms, the regulatory procedure, in order to take better account of social, health, cultural and environmental issues.
it is up to us to ensure the sustainability of our jobs, our production and our quality of life.
for us europeans, the aim of this globalisation must be to reconcile economic competitiveness with a more balanced, more sustainable and better distributed overall development, particularly between the north and the south.
in the case of agriculture, a fair system of trade in agricultural products should be established, which is market-oriented, but also takes into account broader considerations of public health, the environment, employment and territorial balance.
we are in favour, mr president, of the use of nuclear energy and we know that in the european union the safety regulations and conditions are stricter and more respected.
on the one hand, unconditional and unchecked support for nuclear energy.
- i am voting in favour of this report because there is an urgent need for the european union to take concrete decisions to combat the greenhouse effect.
they should have the greatest means of complying with the constraints necessary to improve the environment.
every effort must be made to ensure that each actor reduces its pollution as much as possible by ensuring that the minimum effort set is achieved by all.
- the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in rich countries is a duty of solidarity with future generations, but also with the people of developing countries who will increasingly suffer the natural disasters caused by global warming.
only radical public interventions would protect the environment.
that is why we have overwhelmingly rejected all the linear cuts proposed by the council and we believe that we must meet the needs of planning, development, international development, social action and environmental policy.
we must face all these expenditure with great energy and we must not accept to sacrifice them.
but we want a dynamic interpretation, in line with what has been said, and in particular we want a structural revision of category 4 that is sustainable, not annual.
these are not annual expenditures, they are sustainable.
research and networks aside, all policies in favour of employment, youth, training, the environment, culture: a reduction of almost 18% compared to our current budget.
at a time when the environment, and in particular the protection of tropical forests, is being integrated into the development process, the funds allocated to it are being reduced.
i had stressed that i also regarded the second pillar of the agricultural policy as a crucial complement and that is why the commission will propose a limited increase in rural development measures, also to encourage member states to make greater efforts in the field of agricultural environmental protection and the creation of structures guaranteeing safety in the food chain.
in addition to the positive effect of this decision on employment, it is in line with the objective of ecological sustainability, i.e.
such a decision would undermine both the recovery of employment in europe and green investments, in particular those related to energy savings and the fight against the greenhouse effect.
but if we want sustainable growth with a high level of employment, we need accompaniment by monetary policy.
i have already said it and i want to say it again before you: drug trafficking is today the worst and the greatest enemy of peace, and we will not achieve lasting peace unless we dismantle the organizations involved in the odious drug trade and unless we find economically and socially sustainable alternatives and solutions.
it also means that we all contribute to sustainable solutions to the extent of our own possibilities.
and that we can afford the costs of sustainable solutions wherever possible and with available resources.
we should also be concerned about the serious environmental damage that drug trafficking causes every day.
we share the european concerns about global warming, deforestation and the need to conserve tropical forests.
we also understand that we need to address the issue of polluting emissions.
that is why we intend to propose to europe an environmental alliance bringing together the countries of the european union and colombia in order to achieve this noble objective together.
you represent those who have chosen life, peace and the defence of human rights; you are the expression of those who believe in democracy, freedom and a healthy environment for future generations.
the latter must strive to think about monetary policy in terms of sustainable growth and employment.
this is the spirit of the resolution we are proposing and it is only on these conditions that europe will be able to play its political role in enabling the economic development of enterprises to be truly sustainable and in protecting the rights of workers, who are, let us never forget, its vital force.
my dear colleagues, you actively support globalisation, but you shout loudly when european companies try to adapt to the harmful rules you have created and the economic environment you are imposing on them.
it is not certain that they will have the means to detect low-power nuclear explosions in an environment that will not always allow them to be distinguished from earthquakes.
commission - (de) mr president, i would like to congratulate mrs gröner on her commitment and energy to this project.
- the europe of nations group supported the joint resolution on corporate restructuring in the face of globalisation, as it shows the beginning of a new spirit, distancing itself from free trade, and calling for international trade to be conceived "in the context of the more complex objective of sustainable development".
we want to emphasize the importance of the problems not resolved by the uruguay round, and the harmful effects of which we are now beginning to see, in the areas of social costs, which i mentioned earlier, but also in those of the environment, public health, food, etc.
so now we have to try to make up for lost time by putting these social, environmental, health cost issues on the seattle agenda.
this is particularly true of the transport of radioactive waste, which is treated with intolerable lightness in france, particularly in the case of the hague, without regard to the health of railway workers and the population.
if the commission does not now devote all the energy necessary to safeguarding the fisheries agreements, which are the fundamental pillar of the common fisheries policy, then the pressure from the fisheries sector will be strong and justified in calling for the common fisheries policy to be called into question and for a bilateral framework to be established, allowing the direct conclusion of fisheries agreements between member states and third countries, which would better respect and defend the vital interests of our peoples.
subsidiarity therefore imposes the urgent need to recognise that states have the right to derogate from any harmonisation measure if they intend to adopt more protective rules in the field of public health, as well as in the field of the environment.
more broadly, we should agree on the need for quality agriculture, respecting the environment and the health of consumers and ensuring our food independence.
in this sense i am defending the environment, and in particular the precautionary principle, for britain as well as for france, spain and the countries of the south.
the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in this respect, i think we must try to strike a fair balance between the internal market on the one hand and the desire to go further in environmental and social standards on the other.
the first strategic objective of the document we have put forward and which is the subject of this evening's debate is simply to strike a balance between the internal market on the one hand and the protection of consumer interests and the environment on the other.
and even active support for local employment initiatives is reduced and all attempts to examine the quality and sustainability of the jobs created are dismissed.
without seriously assessing the sustainability and quality of growth, there is a risk of underestimating the efforts still needed to give the european construction a social character.
job creation must be promoted by combining several policies to support the development of sustainable activities.
large-scale consultations and public debates are needed to decide on major projects: public transport networks, energy saving programmes, housing renovation and construction, which are highly job-creating and helpful to the quality of life for all.
the aim is to integrate the unemployed into the world of work in a sustainable way and with rights!
it is not enough for growth to return and become sustainable to bring about the prospect of full employment again!
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0043/1999), on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from compression-ignition engines for use in vehicles and the emission of gaseous pollutants from positive-ignition engines for use in vehicles, and amending council directive 88/77/eec (5734/1/1999 - c5-0028/1999 - 1997/0350 (cod)) (commission on the environment, public health and consumer policy) (rapporteur: mr lange).
and if collective violence is the most visible, everyday violence, neighborhood problems that can be called small violence are very badly experienced by those who suffer from it and it is in this climate that some children are born, that some children grow up today.
the first report published in march mentioned a whole series of positive measures in this respect: an ecological tax, a co2 tax, a levy on the profits of short-term speculation, the use of the ecb's profits.
- mr president, energy is at the heart of all economic and social activity.
all citizens are concerned with the supply, transport and distribution of energy.
much remains to be done to ensure that the right to energy is a reality everywhere, in the poorest countries as well as in the industrialized countries, where all categories of the population do not have equal access to it: needs are therefore not met and energy issues become crucial.
the european union's energy dependence remains high.
stabilisation of co2 emissions and diversification of energy sources have not yet been achieved.
the development of an energy policy that respects the environment therefore requires determined efforts.
the fifth un conference on climate change has just confirmed the differences between those who support voluntary policies and those who are still trying to circumvent the commitments made in kyoto.
these co2 emissions decreased by 19% in 1997. i believe that it can thus help to prevent the us's exclusively commercial liberal approach from prevailing, which goes so far as to call into question the commitments made in kyoto.
there is therefore cause for concern that the commission and the council continue to regard the opening up of the energy market to free competition as a necessary step.
as the chichester report points out, there is a contradiction between liberalisation and the reduction of co2 emissions.
in addition, competition limits the ability of states to intervene in energy choices and to guarantee equal access for users.
energy is not a commodity like any other and must be treated in a specific way.
finally, the rapporteur is rightly surprised that the commission is abandoning nuclear energy altogether, when nuclear energy is helping to reduce co2 emissions, even though this energy should be safer and more environmentally friendly.
these are all issues which deserve a broad, public debate, which will enable everyone to take control of the challenges and choices of energy policy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the commission's communication on the integration of the environmental dimension into energy policy, even though, like many others, i regret the serious delays in this area in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
firstly, there is the question of the security of our supplies and the european union's energy dependence, which is set to increase and which - we are told - is likely to reach 70% by 2020, with all the political risks that this entails.
then there is the commitment made in kyoto to reduce co2 emissions by 8% compared with 1990 levels.
in the face of these two challenges, some advocate the nuclear solution altogether, others advocate the outright abandonment of nuclear energy.
i personally do not believe that these two extremes will be the solution to environmental protection.
i would rather favour a balanced development of energy sources, with the maintenance of nuclear power and especially the development of renewable energies.
another major challenge is the contradiction - which seems to me particularly acute - between the liberalization of energy networks, which is certainly conducive to lower prices but also leads to waste, and the promotion of rational and economical use of energy.
i hope that the strategy behind the auto-oil programme is not lost sight of: the aim is to reduce air pollution from vehicle emissions.
the council's common position will make it possible to make real progress on pollution from heavy goods vehicles.
the benefits of this directive for the environment will be all the greater the sooner it comes into force.
- mr president, the chichester report will certainly have important repercussions on european energy policy.
energy remains a strategic and sensitive area for states.
it identifies the different energy sources which are perceived as complementary and not as substitutes for the energies currently used.
energy realism requires it.
we want energy and the environment to coexist intelligently, but we must avoid sacrificing energy on the altar of the environment.
we share the rapporteur's concern to defend the specific nature of a pluralistic european agricultural model, based on family farms which are often subject to strong geographical and environmental constraints.
finally, i appreciate that mr schwaiger has insisted on the precautionary principle in order to integrate environmental policies into trade policies, and i share his concern about the risks of so-called eco-protectionism which has nothing to do with protecting the health of citizens.
- the next item is the continuation of the debate on the report (a5-0062/1999) by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on the eu approach to the wto millennium cycle (com (99) 331 - c5-0155/1999 - 1999/2149 (cos)).
we are confident that you will be able to exploit it, based on the concept of multifunctionality, which makes it possible to meet the various expectations of our society in terms of product quality, employment and sustainable rural development, protection and conservation of the natural heritage and also in terms of territorial balance.
first, to subordinate the rules of the wto to the international charters and conventions governing human rights, social, health and environmental issues.
another proposal is to make the precautionary principle of the environment, health and food safety a top priority.
you will have obtained, in the final act, a mention on the precautionary principle, on sanitary, even phytosanitary, an ilo-wto forum, a recognition of environmental principles, especially since they have already been recognized in kyoto.
the 1948 universal declaration of human rights, the international labour organization conventions, the environmental conventions, are of more importance than the standards that govern trade.
a state cannot be condemned for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment or for refusing to import goods which are proven to be the products of child labour.
it actively contributes to the implementation of neoliberal policies that result in attacks on public services, employment rights, health, food security, and the environment.
changing course means first of all getting real social and environmental regulations out of the existing package, the one already negotiated, instead of vague references to standards that have never been applied.
yes, it means opposing ecological and social dumping with real logic.
finally, the challenge is not trade without rules, but rather to ensure that the tremendous growth in trade serves the sustainable development of all, not the predatory enrichment of the strongest.
finally, we want trade that benefits sustainable development, by linking trade agreements with our other major international commitments on fundamental labour rights, food security and environmental protection.
these have a considerable impact on the environment and it is well known that in the long run france will have a sausage policy and that little by little we will eventually arrive at a motorway, or a two-lane road, in the aspe valley.
the commission has indeed made a concession on one point, since it is going to carry out an impact assessment on sustainability, i quote, that is to say, on the environmental consequences of liberalisation.
the question is whether the policies promoted by the wto since its inception are conducive to fair and sustainable development for all regions of the world.
liberal globalisation has proved incapable of providing an answer to the problem of development, let alone of promoting fair and sustainable development.
this is why a review of the social and environmental effects of the previous rounds was essential before embarking on a new wave of all-round liberalisation.
fundamental human rights and the 1948 universal declaration, the ilo (international labour organisation) conventions or those on the environment are of a higher importance than the standards governing trade.
we cannot condemn a state for applying the precautionary principle, for protecting its environment, or for refusing to import goods which are proven to be the products of child labour.
the imbalance arises from the fact that only multilateral trade agreements have led to the creation of a judicial type of body, whereas neither the environmental conventions nor the ilo conventions have.
unfortunately, during the plenary session the rapporteur and the epp and eldr groups introduced a number of amendments to the text which mitigate its social and environmental requirements.
as president pasqua said during the general debate in plenary at the beginning of october, and as my colleague georges berthu has just rightly pointed out, it is essential, before embarking on any new round of negotiations, to draw up a clear and precise, objective, and therefore independent and contradictory assessment, in order to understand the economic, social, environmental and food security consequences of the previous uruguay round agreements.
under pressure, we will undertake a study, but it will be very partial, on sustainability, but not on the preservation of our economic and social identities.
this dimension of fair trade based on the absence of qualitative, environmental, social and fiscal dumping, if mentioned at the level of principles, is not affirmed, with all its consequences, as a priority objective to be achieved by european negotiators.
instead of proclaiming the need for european concessions in a vacuum, the commission should rather strongly affirm the need to correct the shortcomings and errors of the marrakesh agreement, in the light of fundamental social rights, the environment, public health, in the interests of all.
the commission therefore prefers, whether its leader is mr brittan or mr lamy, to outline our positions in advance on the precautionary principle, health and environmental protection and the economic interests of rural areas and, in the banana sector, to disregard the traditional and privileged relations which our countries have with the acp countries in the context of international commitments.
secondly, because the regulation itself scandalously and, to my great shame, at the insistence of my country's socialist, ecological and communist government, excludes the storage of fingerprints of illegal immigrants checked on the territory of the union.
in conclusion, mr president, commissioner, if the european commission really wants to contribute to the growth of the shipbuilding industry in europe, it needs only to defend clearly the principle of fair trade in the wto negotiations, to allow member states the freedom to intervene directly in this strategic sector to technologically reorient certain shipyards to market segments with potential, to promote cooperation between companies to help improve the overall efficiency of each of our shipyard types, and finally, within the framework of the common fisheries policy, to take the necessary decisions to allow a controlled renewal of our fishing fleet, the sustainability of the expertise of our shipyards and the vitality of our maritime regions dependent on fishing.
- i have appealed to the european parliament to help me, all the sportsmen who are members of this house, to make a real sport policy that is sustainable, that is realistic, that does something.
at a time of enlargement of the union, it is this citizenship that must be at the heart of our european project to implement human and sustainable development.
- mr president, madam commissioner, i should also like to congratulate our colleague mrs breyer on her excellent work, which we hope will be taken up by the commission in order to develop rapidly ambitious measures to combat pollution.
we also know that road transport causes considerable pollution in the air and we know above all that this type of transport is unfortunately increasing rather than decreasing.
the european commission's proposal, reinforced by mrs breyer's report which goes further, lays down the principle of assessing and managing ambient air quality in relation to two major sources of pollution: benzene and carbon monoxide, both produced by road traffic.
it has been rightly pointed out that benzene is a carcinogen causing leukemia and that carbon monoxide can cause toxic damage to the heart and brain and even death in high concentrations.
it is not a matter of spreading fear, ladies and gentlemen, but i believe we must be aware and make people aware of the dangers we face if we do not take realistic and necessarily severe measures now, with the least possible derogations, to assess, control and minimise the polluting emissions of these two harmful gases, especially as they are more dangerous for children, the elderly and anyone with heart or lung problems.
european citizens have the right to know the quality of the environment in which they live.
i therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow the rapporteur's proposals, which are both ambitious and realistic, and to show the council clearly how demanding the european parliament can be on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
(parliament agreed to the request)
- the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on monday, today, as regards the recommendation for second reading on substances depleting the ozone layer and the motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms, asks that these two items be moved, arguing that their consideration in plenary would coincide with the commission meeting, which would indeed be very impractical.
- the report by mr chichester, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on units of measurement.
this also applies to the current missions of the wto, which places the objective of gaining market share above everything else, including commitments made by the international community on social, environmental, health or southern development.
that is why i am calling for a genuine work of critical evaluation of past experience, followed by an offensive role for the union in favour of a democratic organisation, open to civil societies, truly universal and resolutely overcoming the gap between commercial concerns and the requirements of solidarity and sustainable development.
for us, it is not a question of better organising the continued liberalization of trade, but of giving priority to the defence of social and environmental rights and of enabling all the peoples to control themselves and decide their future.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0077/1999) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (5748/3/1999 - c5-0034/1999 - 1998/0228) (rapporteur: mrs hulthén).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
the commission certainly shares this objective, since these substances are making a major and increasing contribution to the depletion of the ozone layer.
european smes, which play a major role in the development of alternatives, have demonstrated that a rapid phase-out of other ozone-depleting substances encourages sustainable industries and further protection of the ozone layer.
it is important to avoid the introduction of new substances responsible for the depletion of the ozone layer.
amendment no 27 introduces an accelerated procedure for the inclusion of new substances of this kind in the regulation, which would be useful in suspending unwise investments and would be beneficial for the ozone layer.
the community's ozone policy includes strict controls on the production of and trade in hcfcs with countries which have not signed the montreal protocol.
however, we must maintain a balance between environmental requirements and the risk of manufacturing elsewhere.
- the next item is the motion for a resolution (b5-0313/1999), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the follow-up to parliament's opinion on the labelling of foodstuffs produced from genetically modified organisms.
secondly, there is no guarantee that gmos will not have any long-term consequences for public health and the environment, especially as mass production causes their dispersal into nature.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already discussed this matter on 15 november.
the environment committee wants us to re-evaluate this issue.
- for technical reasons, the minutes of yesterday's sitting will not be available until early afternoon and will be submitted to the house for adoption at 3 p.m. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
thirdly, we want to support integrated projects which have an environmental connotation and which, although smaller than national projects, retain a local and regional dimension in order to allow better control of the funds allocated.
is climate change the great challenge of the century or a good, low-value, early-year resolution?
the debate on climate change is not a second-rate debate.
the candidate countries must be involved, and they will have to align themselves with european environmental standards.
the issue of climate change and related apocalyptic visions are a powerful, global way to draw attention to the dangers of pollution.
the melting of glaciers and the tropical storms are all caused by greenhouse gases, which are directly and largely caused by our factories.
floods and storms were promised to men and women sitting comfortably in front of their tvs, protected by what they thought was economic development and a temperate climate.
climate change and the angry nature that wants to take back its rights are frightening to the states that say: we can't continue like this.
to stabilize the climate and reassure the inhabitants without using too much the notion of environmental protection - which we wanted to leave to the ecologists - we are stirring up the kyoto protocol, mad cow, dioxins and the debate on gmos.
climate and gastronomic horrors fall into the same category and make societies wary of uncertainty, of what they cannot control.
businesses and governments now know that nothing can be done without the environment and the principle of sustainable development.
- mr president, i think we all in this house agree that the process of reducing, or at least stabilising, co2 emissions is an environmental necessity for our planet.
you see the enormous work we have to do, the work we are faced with when we are discussing the enlargement of the european union and we have to convince the enlargement countries that we have to take account of our environmental ambitions.
i am not particularly in favour of introducing energy taxes.
i do not think that taxation can systematically solve environmental problems.
- mr president, madam president-in-office, madam commissioner, i thank you for your very clear words on global warming.
but let me say, as my colleague has said, that i do not entirely agree with what you have said about progress in the fight against global warming.
i will simply say that the conferences on global warming follow one another and resemble one another, because the question we can ask is: how much longer will we have to wait for so-called natural disasters before we really take into account the harmful effects of global warming and, above all, its consequences for the economic and social development of our societies, here in europe, but also elsewhere in the world.
you don't have to be a scientist to see that global warming is happening.
all these undeniable signs are red flags, daily reminders of the urgent need to take action and concrete measures to combat global warming.
apart from a few environmentalists who are genuinely concerned about global warming, the general public is indifferent.
worse still, under pressure from powerful nuclear lobbies, nuclear energy has almost been recognized as a renewable energy source, which would have been a great achievement.
in conclusion, i believe that we are far behind in the fight against global warming.
but how we deal with the issue of climate change can also be very significant for the civilization of tomorrow.
i would like to see parliament express once again its reservations about the system of polluting rights, the flexibility mechanism, because if we want to solve the enormous problem of the greenhouse effect, we cannot put our finger in this gear where everything can be bought and sold and where you can buy the polluting rights.
and on the side of the rich countries, the americans, who have imposed on us this so-called mechanism to implement the kyoto decisions, firstly, do not apply them, and secondly, they are in a position to negotiate with russia the so-called pollution rights.
- i welcome this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 093/94 on the production and use of substances that deplete the ozone layer.
i believe that it is high time that new measures were taken to protect the ozone layer.
the decline in stratospheric ozone levels is one of the most serious environmental problems we face.
a decrease of 6 to 10% has been recorded since 1980. in 1996, the hole in the ozone layer over antarctica extended over 20 million square kilometres for more than 40 days.
in addition, the depletion of the ozone layer over scandinavia, greenland and siberia has reached an unprecedented level of 45%.
we need to act quickly, especially as we know about the substances that deplete the ozone layer (hydrochlorofluorocarbons (hcfcs) used mainly in refrigeration and air-conditioning systems, as solvents and for the production of synthetic foams used for insulation purposes); methyl bromide, primarily used for the fumigation of agricultural land to control pests and diseases of plants, classified by who as 'highly toxic', chlorofluorocarbons (cfcs), used in refrigeration systems and previously used in the manufacture of synthetic foams, solvents and propellant gases for aerosols; halons are used for firefighting, particularly in sectors with very high fire-extinguishing requirements (in aircraft in particular) and as non-hazardous substitutes.
i think the objectives proposed by the committee on the environment are achievable, since there are alternatives.
this is all the more regrettable in this area where it is not only a question of protecting the environment, but above all of protecting people's health!
the conditions for the movement of heavy goods vehicles are strictly regulated, which allows a choice in favour of a real quality of life in the alpine valleys, a positive measure for the environment and for the people.
far from welcoming this effort to protect the environment, the european union has only one objective in its bilateral negotiations with switzerland: to get switzerland to abandon its regulation, under the pretext of hindering free competition and unequal treatment between european territories.
the logic of profitability therefore takes precedence over ecological and social considerations.
while previous rounds have been conducted in the utmost discretion between informed negotiators who have regard only to the commercial interests of their country, the next round, the start date of which remains unknown, can only be conducted in a transparent manner and by integrating into the debates all the themes that have a connection with trade, namely social standards, the environment, consumer protection, culture.
should europe not have started by calling for a reorganisation of its organisation and functioning and a clearer delimitation of its sphere of competence in compliance with other international bodies and conventions, in particular on the environment and social rights?
we said that it was no longer possible to follow the wto without understanding the need to put the precautionary principle, cultural diversity, social rights, environmental protection and the reduction of development inequalities at the top of the agenda.
from this point of view, the deviations made in relation to biotechnologies, which were a potential challenge to the protocol on biodiversity, are all the less acceptable because they did not correspond at all to the european mandate and the position adopted by parliament.
a global environmental organisation must be created and given real powers.
the unced is the most legitimate framework for dealing with the issue of foreign direct investment in accordance with the democratic right of states to legislate on environmental and social matters.
the unrestrained liberalization of trade, orchestrated by the wto and the major industrialized countries, is in total contradiction with the policies essential to the protection of the environment.
the european union has to sweep up its own dust: there are no regulations to limit carbon dioxide emissions, like the regulations on local air pollutants or products that degrade the ozone layer.
- i would like to congratulate the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and in particular its chairman on this motion for a resolution on the labelling of foodstuffs containing gmos.
secondly, while a great deal of effort is being made in the automobile sector to reduce pollution from new engines, a very ambitious european programme should be drawn up to eliminate rapidly the old car fleet, which is often very polluting (i am not talking here about collector cars).
finally, i would like to draw your attention to the pollution which is once again threatening the breton coast and which will require, as a matter of urgency, a complementary financial effort by the european institutions.
secondly, account should be taken of the fact that any form of assistance from the structural funds must be subject, on the basis of the provisions of the regulation, to an ex ante assessment of the effects of the measures on the environment.
in this respect too, parliament, which is particularly concerned about environmental aspects, would certainly not understand us giving up on them.
it is therefore essential that the statistics are sufficiently refined at the territorial level, on a harmonised basis, so that we can obtain relevant analyses by type of production and by ecosystem.