how much time, energy and problems were caused for staff in the running of a programme simply because the commissioners did a deal between themselves which was not transparent, not effective and certainly unaccountable to us here in the european parliament.
it is to us extraordinary insensitivity at this particular time, in this current climate, when you have an acting commission, that someone can, in that particular state of office simply say two days later he wants to go and work for a private company which is one of the major operators in the field for which he is responsible in telecommunications.
i certainly do not know, because i do not have the technical expertise, whether the range of recovered vegetable oils which are now seen to be a source of risk should be subject to an outright ban, or whether it should simply be limited to some section of kitchen waste which should never have been in any form of animal foodstuff in the first instance.
the first relates to the control environment.
considers, therefore, that the commission and parliament should endeavour to guarantee this dual objective - transparency and the need to respect the confidentiality commitments made to those who transmit information - by deciding on the final destination of the complete archives and by establishing the rules for access to these archives in a secure environment.
as regards the real and sustainable improvement of what he called the financial control environment, he will know that efforts have been made to achieve this through more effective distribution of responsibilities and effective central coordination to detect unnecessary controls.
budgetary timetable: see minutes
- the next item is the report (a5-0003/99) by mrs mckenna, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
commission - (es) mr president, i thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, and in particular its rapporteur, mrs mckenna, and the members of the committee on budgets for the work they have done and the interest they have shown in this proposal.
you will agree with me that this community framework for cooperation is important, as it is intended to support and complement the work of the member states in the field of accidental marine pollution, precisely in order to make it more effective.
the remaining nine amendments pose problems for the following reasons: - amendment no 1 and, in part, amendments nos 5, 15 and 24 introduce a specific reference to pollution caused by radioactive substances, which are already implicitly regulated in the proposal.
-(en) mr president, i am speaking as rapporteur on the proposal for a european commission recommendation laying down minimum criteria for environmental inspections.
at present, more than 80 infringement cases against environmental legislation in the european union, involving 11 member states, are pending before the court of justice.
the committee on the environment feels that this is largely inadequate and that without a directive, the member states lagging behind will not be encouraged to do anything.
i note that the greens have tabled an amendment calling the attention of the european parliament to the fact that there must be some sort of environmental inspection office at european union level.
rather than embarking on the establishment of a supranational inspection office, with all the difficulties that this implies in terms of access rights, it is better to ensure, once the legislation is in place, that (a) environmental inspections exist in all member states and (b) that they perform their task to a more or less similar standard.
- mr president, the european union is the subject of much criticism but few voices are raised to protest when this institution takes action to protect our air, rivers, seas and countryside, because everyone is aware that pollution does not know the borders of nations and can only be effectively combated by countries working together.
let's do justice to europe: it has done pioneering work by introducing legislation on environmental protection.
no country is perfect in enforcing environmental laws.
it underlines our commitment to protecting the environment and to applying equivalent procedures in each member state.
commission - (es) mr president, in fact, in the report presented by mrs jackson there is a point which does not speak so much of the content as of the legal form which can be chosen to try to solve the problem of minimum environmental standards in the member states.
the clarity: your political vision as you have set it out this morning does not fully satisfy our vision and it is appropriate that you deepen your reflection on social europe, the environment and other subjects.
our committee, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, has questioned three commissioners and sent delegations to hear three other commissioners.
i am drawing on the experience of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
they do not go off the rails, so as not to create problems in the budget or waste taxpayers' money.
we were waiting for evidence of a greater awareness of how to prioritize and implement the fundamental issues of social justice and environmental sustainability.
we have tried to alleviate these fears with determination, consistency and energy, but they are still relatively persistent.
i do not want to waste the time of this house and i thank the president for giving me the opportunity to speak on this matter.
the authorities responsible must therefore redouble their efforts to encourage a sustainable recovery in the medium term.
the commission has always made it clear to russia that a rapid and sustainable reversal of the capital flight trend requires a more favourable investment environment and better protection of investors' rights in russia.
we must have a fair and sustainable taxation system.
the investment environment is deplorable, as there is no long-term viable tax system, constantly changing laws, insufficient infrastructure and, above all, unconvincing and confusing property rights, including intellectual property.
i recognize that in the current climate it is difficult to justify eu technical assistance, but we must continue given the importance russia has for us, both for security reasons and for economic reasons.
people find the atmosphere of the building to be dry, not only in political terms, but also in environmental terms, and we would really appreciate having water.
people don't like to be in an unfamiliar environment.
i agree with what has been said about waste and the need to recycle and save energy and i believe that this is an opportunity to put into practice what we advocate in the area of health, safety and energy.
as my colleagues have already done, i too would like to stress the extreme importance of the question of energy saving and to point out that it deserves to be the focus of our reflections.
this was the first debate i attended under his chairmanship and it proved to be an interesting and useful exercise in improving the conditions in our working environment.
this is a poor choice of colour, not practical and ultimately a waste.
when i asked the commission representatives in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy a few months ago for details on the illegal recycling of sewage sludge in animal feed, which is suspected in some member states, no one was able to define what sewage sludge was, under what circumstances it was used and for what reasons it was used.
the establishment of a food agency, which some people doubt, is as credible and necessary as an environmental agency, which some people also doubted when it was created.
i am delighted to be working with her and we hope that she will soon share, if she has not already, our enthusiasm for renewable energy.
with the save and altener ii programmes, we can show europeans that there are rational ways to meet the challenges of climate change: energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
we call on the member states to fulfil their commitments to promote renewable energy - and all of them declare, each on their own, that they are committed to this - by signing a charter on renewable energy - the eurenew charter.
the environmental benefits of renewable energy are obvious.
and i fully support the call made by mr langen to strengthen the european council for the export of renewable energies.
it is very important to emphasize the dissemination of information in the context of the altener ii programme and i look forward to consulting, if it is already available, the agores centre on the worldwide web, a site clearly intended to collect a whole range of information on renewable energies so that everyone can consult it and keep it up to date.
in addition to the altener programme and the renewable energy research carried out under the fifth framework programme, which we hope will be far-reaching, we need urgent accompanying measures, such as the directive on access to the electricity market.
the white paper has raised hopes and we are delighted to launch the campaign, with its million photovoltaic systems, its large wind farms, its biomass and, above all, its 100 communities in which all the electricity consumed will come from renewable energy.
there is no place in the european union where the use of renewable energy is not relevant, whether in lapland or the greek islands.
renewable energy must become a symbol of the rational and progressive character of europe.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr langen, on his report on the adoption of the multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the community, altener ii.
from a technical point of view, fusion may be a renewable energy source, but that is not the point here.
the main initiative in this report is the demand for a doubling of the share of renewable energy sources to 12% by the year 2010. the socialist group clearly supports this initiative but i am not entirely convinced that the commitments will be accompanied either by political means - that is one of the reasons why we are asking for the campaign to encourage the use of renewable energy - or, more importantly, by financial resources.
we have an allocation of €80 million: €30 million for 1998-99 and €50 million for 2000-02. it seems to me, firstly, that the sums available are very insufficient and, secondly, if we expect a doubling of renewable energy sources, the sums available for a certain period should be greatly increased.
i welcome amendment no 6, article 2 (e) (a) (new) on the need to promote the export of renewable energy technologies from the european union and to promote the european council for the export of renewable energy.
in conclusion, i would like to briefly address a few points: the principle of renewable energy is not part of the thinking of energy suppliers who are trained to consider that energy must be produced on a large scale and that each project involves costs amounting to hundreds of millions or billions of euros.
many of these projects will be characterised by their small size, the fact that they will be community-based and site-specific and will exploit wind energy, tidal power, a combination of heat and electricity or even biomass.
secondly, if we are serious about exporting, we should also give importance to renewable energy sources for which we have a technological lead in the european union, which is not necessarily the case here.
i see one: the conversion of ocean heat energy, which takes advantage of the temperature difference between the cold deep waters of the tropics and the warmer surface.
energy efficiency is one of the few contributions to the achievement of the eu's kyoto targets.
by saving energy, we will produce less co2 and other pollutants.
we will be able to create thousands of jobs, which we greatly need, and the gas and electricity suppliers will be able to make money in a more rational way by selling the services that energy provides us - well-heated homes, efficient refrigerators and machines that work - rather than selling ever-increasing amounts of gas and electricity.
they use more energy than industry, and they do it in a costly way.
i believe that the use of regional and local networks, such as federene, energy cities and islenet, is one of the most effective ways of bringing about change and i hope that these networks will be encouraged under save ii, as they were in save i. of course it is important that we carry out checks and that the achievements of this programme are quantified.
so far you have done that, and i am pleased, and we look forward to your next communication on energy efficiency.
it is very positive to begin the work of this new parliament with programmes which can make a difference, both for the environment and for the competitiveness needs of our member states.
the eu should seek to develop strategies and training programmes to ensure that the regeneration of the south african economy is sustainable in the long term, both economically and environmentally.
they created a climate of goodwill among the greek and turkish peoples and thus laid the foundations for a political rapprochement between the two countries.
we have also tried to create the conditions for a climate of opinion favourable to the peace process and we have worked towards détente.
if the right trade-offs are to be found between the diverse and complex issues facing the international trading system today, it seems essential that the discussions cover a comprehensive agenda, ranging from traditional tariff reductions to crucial issues such as environmental and labour standards, and new topics such as competition and investment.
since mr sasi has kindly agreed to attend the meeting of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy of the european parliament on 12 october, i suggest that he submit his formal reply to these two points during that meeting.
citizens are paying attention, ngos are paying attention, businesses are paying attention to environmental concerns, health, animal welfare.
it is not just about trade, it is about international justice and social justice, it is about environmental problems.
- i think that our deliberations today have been very much focused on the essential areas of the environment and agriculture and the social clause but i would like to draw your attention to the specific needs of the cultural industries and the audiovisual sector.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this opportunity to present to parliament the council's activities and my views on climate policy.
climate policy is one of the biggest challenges facing the environment globally and i believe it will remain so for the next century.
climate change will have immense social and economic impacts.
of course, they'll be bigger the longer we let the climate change.
one thing that people are only now discovering is the likely health effects of climate change.
many researchers believe that the increasing number of storms and floods are a symptom of a changing climate.
but even more significant are the indirect effects of climate change that are due to changes in ecosystems.
it is also expected that as a result of global warming, many vector-borne diseases, such as those transmitted by insects and rats, will spread.
this is just one example of the dramatic effects that climate change can bring.
that is why tackling climate change, or at least slowing it down, is one of our priorities.
it is important to understand that the kyoto commitments must be followed by new commitments if climate change is to be sufficiently slowed down.
one is the union's own actions to reduce emissions; the other is the union's activity in international negotiations.
eu action to reduce emissions is essential, as are national measures taken by member states, if only to ensure the international credibility of the european union.
a report by the european environment agency indicates with concern that business as usual will lead to an increase in future emissions in the european union rather than the eight per cent reduction by 2010 we had committed to.
one of the most important objectives of the finnish presidency is the implementation of the first sectoral strategies in the fields of energy, transport and agriculture.
in my view, it is important that these sectoral strategies become a continuous process, that is to say that we should not be satisfied with the first versions, but that, on the contrary, these sectoral strategies should be reviewed at regular intervals, for example in the field of transport and energy, and that ever more ambitious objectives should be set.
the finnish presidency will work to ensure that climate policy and development policy can support each other.
we are also preparing resolutions in the development council on the respective relations between climate policy and development policy.
in order for these technology transfers and also the transfers of funds to developing countries to start working, we need rules for this cdm, but it is also important for the european union to make balanced progress in defining all three of the flexibility instruments provided for by the kyoto protocol: the clean development mechanism, international emissions trading and joint application.
commission - (sv) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, when the united nations convention on climate change was adopted in rio in 1992, the european union clearly took the lead in relation to the rest of the world.
the same was true when the kyoto protocol was signed in 1997. my ambition is to ensure that the eu maintains this role in the fight against climate change.
many rich countries, where greenhouse gas emissions exceed acceptable limits, are skeptical.
moreover, the largest increases in emissions over the next two decades will occur in developing countries.
in the eu itself, the amount of waste is moving in the wrong direction.
it is important to note that by the year 2000 the eu will probably have stabilised its greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels, but this is not enough.
if we continue at the present rate, we will not be able to meet the ambitions of the kyoto decision to reduce emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. this is a bad development, both in the long term and for the eu's credibility on the international stage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as i said at the hearing before this parliament, the fight against climate change is one of my top priorities.
let me start today by mentioning three elements which i believe should be part of an effective and comprehensive climate strategy.
firstly, in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we need a strategy of concrete measures in various areas.
to achieve this, i will launch early next year a climate change action programme, the guiding idea of which will be to bring together all interested partners, whether technical experts, business representatives, non-governmental organisations or other key actors.
these represent considerable potential, together with renewable energy, new vehicle technologies, and low-energy appliances and machines that are waiting to be brought to market.
secondly, i intend to present a green paper on emissions trading in the eu in the year 2000. i am aware that there are still some doubts about the application of such mechanisms to the flexibility of the system.
nevertheless, i am convinced that if they are regulated by a set of effective and clear provisions, they will help to enable us to achieve the necessary reduction in atmospheric emissions at a cost-effective level.
thirdly, in addition to these measures, we must also achieve changes in areas which affect greenhouse gas emissions but which are outside the scope of environmental policy.
i am thinking in particular of sectors such as energy, transport and industry.
the discussions at the helsinki summit in december will in many ways be decisive for how these sectors can contribute to combating climate change.
i am thinking, for example, of the efforts made by my colleague, commissioner bolkestein, to remove the obstacles which are holding up the negotiations on the proposed tax on energy consumption.
transport and energy issues are also of crucial importance in the fight against climate change.
i will have the opportunity to discuss with commissioner loyola de palacio the objective of doubling the use of renewable energy sources and further improving energy efficiency.
we will also discuss the reduction of air emissions from the transport sector.
the commission will shortly adopt new guidelines on state aid for environmental protection.
my colleague, mr mario monti, is currently studying how subsidies and financial incentives can help to improve the environment and protect our climate.
i will also consider whether aid to fossil fuels could be converted to the use of renewable energy and energy saving measures.
i would also ask the european parliament to consider what it can do itself, within the framework of its tasks, to integrate climate change issues into the various economic sectors.
this ratification should take place as soon as possible after the sixth conference of the parties to the united nations convention on climate change.
- mr president, i can't think of a worse setting than this building to hold a debate on climate change.
this building celebrates humanity's ignorance of the imperatives of climate change.
it will be money well spent because it is necessary to protect our environment, but it will cost them money.
we are delighted with the publication of an action programme in the spring and of a green paper on emissions trading.
during the hearing of the commissioner about a month ago, my committee, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was quite divided on the issue of emissions trading measures but it is worth exploring this path now.
finally, i would like to assure the commissioner of the full support of the committee on the environment for any proposal she may put forward.
we all want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and my amendment does not judge the principle of energy taxes but is intended to help us make decisions based on any proposal in this area.
we need to know the estimated impact on employment in europe and to what extent pollution could not simply be exported to low-income countries which can hardly afford to deal with it.
for example, for a large uk tomato grower who is currently paying £363,000 for gas and £60,000 for electricity, the proposed climate change tax in the uk would increase his energy bill by £149,000.
what would happen then is that the european union would claim to have reduced its pollution and emissions but the cost would be first, the loss of european jobs and second, that the level of global pollution would not have decreased by one iota: simply, pollution would have been exported.
please publish your impact assessments on employment and on the export of emissions.
in this respect, we must all work hard to create in all member states a climate in which sexual minorities, among others, are respected and valued.
it must be said that efforts must be made in all sectors of society to ensure that the climate in all european states is as tolerant as possible.
we hope that this process will help to improve the social climate, especially with regard to inter-ethnic and inter-religious tensions.
the commission services will remain in close contact with the international atomic energy agency to exchange information and analysis and, if necessary, support monitoring activities.
many of us feel that the balance has not always been struck in the world trade organisation between, for example, environmental concerns, consumer and worker protection and trade liberalisation.
our committee also wishes to draw your attention to the fact that other committees should address this safety problem through the forthcoming directive on emissions from heavy commercial vehicles and through vehicle testing standards, to ensure that faulty tank caps are detected, during road checks or the annual technical inspection of commercial vehicles.
we shall soon be considering a report on this subject in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, of which i am also a member.
the commission considers that, for safety and environmental reasons, it should no longer be acceptable for two- or three-wheel vehicles not equipped with an approved speed indicator to be placed on the market.
the commission fully agrees with parliament that the second pillar, measures for rural development, offers a great deal of potential, particularly for agri-environmental development.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
- mr president, i have taken over from mr desama, the rapporteur originally appointed to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, following the heart attack he suffered.
we cover energy programmes, industrial programmes, including small and medium-sized enterprises, research programmes under the framework programme, which account for about 60% of the european union's internal policy expenditure, and trade and technical assistance lines.
on energy and related lines, we regretted that the committee on budgets did not follow us in increasing expenditure on the altener and save programmes.
these are renewable energy and energy efficiency programmes which are currently being reconciled.
i also regret that the committee on budgets did not agree to make the training of nuclear experts in the countries of the former soviet union a policy area of energy rather than a foreign policy area, which would have made it possible to carry out this training much more effectively.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
while the budget lines for which the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is responsible are not very large, they are nonetheless essential to facilitate the development of union policies, in particular to bring union citizens closer together and to meet their needs and aspirations.
in the same way, as the deadline for the fifth environmental action plan approaches, we can only welcome the availability of funds to start the development of the sixth action plan.
my committee has put forward five budgetary priorities: objective 1, objective 2, interreg, transport safety and sustainable mobility.
with your permission, i now turn briefly to transport to tell members that i hope they will be able to support the proposals of the committee on budgets to reinstate the 1999 allocation for the line on transport safety and the line on sustainable mobility.
as far as the immigration and asylum proposals are concerned, i was the british minister responsible for these matters until 1997. based on this experience, i now believe that at the global level, the uncontrolled movement of people over the next 20 or 30 years, whether it is due to economic or climate issues, represents a colossal challenge to order and democracy.
the labour government is also at the forefront of the fight to create an environment in which e-commerce can flourish.
as legislators, our task is to create an environment that allows businesses and employment to flourish.
when i speak of investors, however, i am not referring only to shareholders: i am also thinking of the thousands of workers in companies such as michelin who have invested their time, energy, knowledge, skills, hopes and aspirations - and those of their families - in a company for which they have worked for many years.
this house has become accustomed to the idea of external costs in environmental policy, since the cost of harmful practices is borne not by the company concerned but by society as a whole.
and yet, we find ourselves facing a u.s. senate, facing a legislative body, that intends to resist the global environment in which it lives.
i do not know how much of it is true, but i have heard that french cattle are still being sold with their spinal cord and brains - the food agency could look into this; the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide for the possibility of the member states to grant exemptions from the requirement of the protection of the environment.
this implies strict precautions against illegal practices of the kind that the commission very quickly discovered with the case of the infiltration of the bovine food chain by human and animal waste, which has just taken place in some other countries.
as regards your question on the precautionary principle, it is derived from a concept which was first stated in the environmental field.
i have referred to this principle in this house and in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on several occasions.
i won't surprise you to hear that i'm thinking about the environment.
article 2 makes sustainable development one of the key objectives of the european union, even though many of us may question the methods set out in the treaty to achieve it.
and the sustainable development i would like to draw attention to has nothing to do with the sustainable growth we have heard a lot about this afternoon.
article vi, title 2 of the new treaty clearly states that environmental considerations must be mainstreamed at all levels of eu policy and practice and, in our view, the macroeconomic dialogue is also concerned.
for example, it is certain that climate change, if left unchecked, will destabilise the economy of any country, as the european union's own research shows.
this research also shows that economic development, in its traditional sense, is limited in some areas by the lack of fresh water and that the european union already produces more toxic waste from economic growth than it can treat.
so the environment is a factor to be integrated and i would like to know how it will be.
it is essential that we seek new ways and better ways of meeting the objective of sustainable and balanced development which takes into account our own needs, the needs of the environment and which does not have any negative influence on the living standards of the less favoured regions of the world.
the current economic environment is very favourable (low inflation, recovery in growth, reasonable stability).
on the other hand, can the single currency, the current low inflation rate and the expected growth rate create a favourable environment for job creation, which is a priority objective of the european union?
should we include the subject of the environment or not?
we welcome this legislation because it is important that the information presented is made available to buyers for whom environmental and economic factors are paramount.
in the main document, we are particularly interested (as others are) in the emphasis on the need for a coherent approach to the regulation of the internet and e-commerce, as well as intellectual property, distance selling and data protection - bringing all these aspects together to protect consumer rights and ensure adequate rules of sustainability.
our group naturally wants the completion of the internal market to be accompanied by a balance (as you yourself have said, commissioner) between the freedom of the market and the need to protect the environment, consumer health and consumer confidence.
however, we reject an important conclusion that has been made about the single currency, which takes for granted that the implementation of economic and monetary union provides a favourable climate for the creation of new jobs.
the different problems faced by the member states must be addressed by differentiated national solutions with a view to creating a climate in which their enterprises can create jobs.
we also need to focus on another issue: the global situation in which these children are growing up, and most certainly the environmental conditions that many of them have to endure.
it is essential that we meet and exceed the targets we have set for climate change control.
we also believe that the priorities of our international financial institutions must be changed so that they give priority to environmental protection, health care and education over open markets.
if that's not possible, we'll take a family from a different environment but from the same country as the child.
- mr president, the maastricht and amsterdam treaties both highlight measures to protect the environment.
the commission's communication aims to take these considerations further into account in the energy sector.
three objectives have been set: first, to promote energy efficiency; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
three priorities have been established to integrate these environmental objectives into energy policy.
global warming is a major environmental problem, but it is obvious that it is not the only one we are facing.
the energy and transport sectors are among the main contributors to emissions responsible for global warming.
europe must do its part and set an example for the rest of the world, while recognizing that the greatest pressures on energy consumption will be exerted in the future by countries like the united states, which are rather lavish in their energy consumption, and by developing countries which, given their growing economies and living standards, will seek to increase their energy consumption, probably from polluting sources.
it must be acknowledged that energy policy is still to a large extent determined at the level of the member states.
however, there is no doubt that energy efficiency is a topic that affects us all.
the report also calls on the commission to support the process of mainstreaming these objectives into energy policy through research into the impact of climate change, research into all possible technologies, research into identifying the best indicators to measure the contribution to emission reductions and regular reporting to parliament.
the report also calls for environmental objectives to be taken into account in the enlargement process.
energy consumption and electricity production in the candidate countries raise many concerns which need to be addressed.
the report reminds us of the need to establish dialogue and consensus with our trading competitors, as well as developing countries, with a view to improving global environmental protection measures and significantly reducing emissions.
the commission has omitted from its report a major aspect, namely nuclear energy.
whatever your view of this energy and electricity source, it is a fact that it provides a significant share of europe's electricity without producing co2 or other greenhouse gases.
that is why - and only because - this energy source was mentioned in the report.
it would be unfortunate if this reference to nuclear energy diverted attention from the main objective of this report which is to improve energy efficiency, increase the supply from renewable energy sources and integrate our environmental objectives into our energy policy.
the commission has also decided to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of radioactive waste.
in early september, the lithuanian government adopted a new national energy strategy which reiterates the commitment to close unit 1 by 2005 and to set the date for the closure of unit 2 as part of the next national energy strategy to be adopted in 2004. the commission assumes that block 2 will be closed by 2009 at the latest.
on 5 october, the new energy strategy was adopted by the lithuanian parliament by a clear majority of 63 votes to 31. on 28 september, the slovak government officially informed the commission of its decision to move the date of closure of reactors 1 and 2 of the bohunice v 1 plant to 2006 and 2008. this decision was taken after slovakia invested more than eur 200 million in improving nuclear safety in recent years.
at present, each member state and therefore each candidate country is free to choose its own form of energy production.
an action plan for the implementation of the national energy strategy is being drawn up.
the commission notes that the aid is not intended to cover the costs of the closure of the plant, but rather to support the follow-up measures in the conventional energy sector.
there are signs of political will to reach an acceptable solution since the bulgarian government has accepted the possibility of deviating from the closure deadlines set out in the country's energy strategy.
after this comprehensive report on recent developments in non-renewable nuclear reactors in the candidate countries, i would like to say a few words about the renewable and non-renewable reactors in the nis, the newly independent states.
it is essential that countries that depend heavily on nuclear power plants for their electricity and energy see the shutdown programs spread out to give them time to plan for replacement facilities.
you will remind us that during my hearing on 3 september before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection i stated my intention to establish diagnostic tests for bse throughout europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
as you said, and i agree with you, the causes of violence are many: social, cultural, economic; it is not just the european parliament that is responsible for the problems of the environment, but also the european parliament.
can we really afford, strategically or financially, a double game of manpower and committees, a proliferation of euro-forces, or the inevitable waste and squandering of armed forces forced to conform to two operational doctrines and two planning regimes?
however, developing countries must improve their main environmental standards and recognize that this requirement is not a new form of protectionism.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
for all these reasons, we have tabled a number of amendments to the report, with the aim of encouraging the establishment of new wto rules in areas such as the environment which are now directly affected by international trade policy.
it is a means to an end, and that end must be sustainable development.
so what good is 17 times more trade if it does not benefit the poor and does not promote sustainable development?
that is why my group believes that before we embark on new trade negotiations in seattle, we should first make a full study of the social and environmental consequences of the liberalization which has already taken place following the last round of negotiations, the uruguay round.
but above all, when we have evidence that global trade rules are destroying the livelihoods of the poor or harming the environment, we need to change those rules.
so i repeat, whenever global trade rules destroy people's livelihoods and harm the environment or animal welfare, those rules must be changed.
it should take into account the impact of liberalisation on investment, competition rules, abusive subsidies, inadequate labour standards, environmental protection, intellectual property rights, trade facilitation, public procurement, improved access to agricultural markets, improved access to commercial markets including services, consumer protection and capacity development.
in conclusion, we must never forget that in the context of globalisation, we are very often dealing with problems which are close to the human being: living standards, the environment, culture, morality and ethics.
- (fi) mr president, i would say that nuclear energy, if used in a reliable, safe and controlled way, is not dangerous.
- mr president-in-office, i am pleased to hear you say that nuclear energy is safe energy.
it is not possible to expect countries which generate 30% to 40% of their energy from nuclear sources to replace it with renewable energy, whatever the financial or economic conditions, or with the burning of fossil fuels, without enormous new environmental damage in these already heavily polluted countries.
some people only started to pay attention to this issue at the end of 1998. these countries were supported in their work by the international atomic energy agency, which revised their analyses of the scale of the problem for a significant number of plants; mrs plooij-van gorsel referred to the work done so far and here is my answer, madam president: the work of the agency and the countries operating these plants has not revealed any bug problem on the systems essential for safety.
for having addressed a subject of public interest, of environmental interest to the whole of europe.
he faces the death penalty for exposing an ecological disaster caused by nuclear submarines in the murmansk region.
its aim is simply to reduce pollution and improve the quality of the air we breathe, which moves from one country to another without regard to national borders.
and if we fail to meet the targets set for reducing benzene and carbon monoxide emissions, it will not be the industry's fault.
- mr president, reducing air pollution and in particular levels of benzene and carbon monoxide is a legitimate objective pursued by the european union.
the commission proposal does not specifically take account of the problems of air pollution in the applicant countries; i think it is irresponsible, given the imminence of enlargement, that parliament has not received any information on pollution levels in countries such as poland or the czech republic, and the estimated costs and time needed to meet the new standards.
i would suggest, mrs wallström, that in future, when environmental legislation such as this is being considered, the implications for the applicant countries should be taken into account as a whole and made public.
(the sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
president of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
we have succeeded in imposing environmental and social regulations alongside trade regulations.
environmental issues are not unique to rich countries and should not be, although they have been presented as such.
if they are right to link environmental and social problems with trade problems, they will have to prove that they are not motivated by protectionism and in return they will have to guarantee substantial benefits to the developing countries.
i believe that a forum is needed to discuss proposals for radical reforms with the environment and development groups who have been working on this subject for many years.
these ngos signed a declaration calling for no further trade liberalisation until the social and environmental impacts of the current liberalisation have been examined and problems clearly identified.
thanks to the soup and the support of the socrates programme, students and staff have shown greater motivation and sensitivity to their environment and other places as well.
if the ozone layer is not repaired as soon as possible and if the damage is not contained, the world's population will be increasingly affected by skin cancer and more and more eye damage.
the european union must help the third world and developing countries to adopt rapidly new technologies which do not damage the ozone layer, which do not use chemicals responsible for destroying it.
- mr president, humans, through their stupidity, have damaged the ozone layer.
the main concern is that they will make it more difficult to phase out harmful cfcs, which cause so much damage to the ozone layer, especially in developing countries, far more than the substances mentioned in his report.
we support the rapporteur's objectives and we will support most of his amendments, but we do not think that it has addressed all our environmental concerns.
actions have already been taken to solve the problem of the ozone layer.
they are considered to be one of the few success stories of international environmental law.
since the mid-1990s, the depletion of the ozone layer appears to have slowed down, mainly as a result of efforts to reduce emissions of the substances responsible for this depletion.
according to the european environment agency, the ozone layer over antarctica reached an extremely low level in the summer of 1998, the lowest on record in an area as large as europe.
the environment committee of parliament has drawn up a short resolution so that members can debate it with the commission and try to get some clarification.
finally, the british government must not finance export credits for the ilisu dam, which threatens to be a disaster for the human rights of the kurds, as well as an ecological disaster.
new programmes are being financed in the fields of agriculture, infrastructure, transport and environmental protection.
financially, the new programming period 2000-06 can therefore begin, with a new programme which will ensure in particular that the aid from the structural funds will at the same time contribute to improving equality between men and women, to the objective of environmental protection and to improving the employment situation.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i am pleased to say that we have had a very good year with mr bourlanges, who has negotiated well on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
as far as energy is concerned, we are disappointed by the relatively modest amounts allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
since this was my first appointment as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, mr bourlanges was very helpful and paid close attention to the points i raised: although he did not always agree, he was very impartial.
the one on the funds allocated to kosovo is a good one and, in general, the others have been relatively well received by the committee on the environment.
the budget lines reserved for the committee on the environment contain only very small amounts; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it has nevertheless allowed us to undertake the initial research which will help us to develop the question of health competence as provided for in the amsterdam treaty.
on the environment, the most important procedure under way concerns the lienemann report, i am talking about the conciliation on the life programme, for which we hope to obtain a favourable outcome.
fourthly, we welcome the progress made towards restoring the amounts originally earmarked for the environmentally friendly sustainable mobility line.
after trying to get everyone interested, from the local transport authorities in kishinev to the energy ministries in uzbekistan, i found that, as in many other areas of community policy, tacis projects may be trying to do too much, crossing too many geographical boundaries and tackling too many sectors at once.
i would like to take this opportunity to raise another point, namely the global competitive environment in the automobile industry, apart from regulation.
it would create an even more confused climate on the question of gmos.
and, with all due respect to commissioner monti, he is not in a position to respond to the debate because, for example, when i asked commissioner byrne in the environment committee if it was possible to save too much time with the legal procedures and go straight to a legal injunction, he said it was possible, which was not in the statement that commissioner monti has just read.
it is essentially aimed at prosperity, at job creation within the european union, especially for our smes, because it creates a more favourable business climate for these activities.
this kind of directive should improve the climate in our trading sector, allowing us to move from late payment to prompt payment.
i also thank the colleagues on the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy with whom i have worked closely, many of whom are in the house tonight.
i believe, however, that they are an integral part of our objective, that they are generally sound and will enable us to improve the business climate for small and mediumsized enterprises.
this important directive will enable us to tackle this business climate, to bring about a cultural change which will enable us to move from late payment to prompt payment as the norm within the european single market and not, as is the case today, the other way around.
today, although the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment of this parliament were invited to examine this extension, the council preferred to ignore parliament and to change the legal basis of this decision, whereas the proposed amendments were practical and reasonable and could have been adopted under the codecision procedure.
the issue of the identification of beef products and the certainty of their safety is as much at the heart of the dispute between france and the european union as it is at the heart of the safety concerns that have been addressed by the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment over the last two years.
the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy seek to remedy this by proposing a delay of up to eight months.
that was the heartfelt cry of mr papayannakis during our discussions in the committee on the environment.
it is further evidence of labour's commitment to creating an environment in the european union that is conducive to the prosperity of entrepreneurs and businesses.
the fund exists to promote rural and urban development and community development, to develop skills and to improve the environment; the arguments put forward by the green amendments are fallacious.