if a system of inspection, more or less similar to that advocated by mrs jackson, had been in force in athens a few days ago, we would have at least indirectly protected the soil and the urban environment and thus avoided most of the deaths, injuries and thousands of homeless people that our capital is experiencing today.
that is why we support the proposal for an inspection of environmental damage.
the second observation - which i am obviously making out of the dismay and pain caused by the athens earthquake - is that our environmental legislation, which we must revise and apply, does not contain, or does not contain enough, provisions governing land use, the urban environment, environmental damage within urban space.
the positive aspect of these plants is that they will not emit any carbon dioxide.
not for environmental damage, for example?
it is designed, on the one hand, to make the balance of payments of these countries sustainable and, on the other hand, to facilitate the implementation of the structural reforms which are indispensable for each of them if we are to see them progress towards a future better than the fate they have been given so far.
it is essential, firstly, because these countries are trying to adapt to a new environment of economic and trade relations which presents them with problems, particularly in the balance of payments, which in turn influences the more general functioning of the market and their economic development.
now, beyond reparation, ladies and gentlemen, mr alavanos raises a question which has always interested me - and i remember the action i took in my country as minister for the environment in relation to natural hazards - and that is prevention.
as regards the environmental consequences of the kosovo conflict for serbia, i refer you to the answer to oral question no 1512/99.
turkey is characterised by a persistent negativity within the international system, persisting in actions which, far from opposing it, contribute to the destabilisation of the local geopolitical environment.
i think that the accident in japan shows us, firstly, that nuclear energy is not safe.
secondly, is nuclear energy so cheap, commissioner?
nuclear energy is then very cheap if industry does not bear the cost.
let us use this time to prepare the other sources of energy which we are discussing in this house and discourage the creation of new nuclear power stations, especially in areas which do not even offer the safety conditions of japan, such as those currently being planned in turkey - in akkuyu or in thrace.
the accident at a private nuclear power plant in japan on 30 september has once again demonstrated the dangers of nuclear energy and the need to establish strict safety standards.
nevertheless, the nuclear industry, instead of being excluded from the world energy market for environmental and economic reasons, continues to strengthen its position.
the objective of sustainable development, which has been included in the treaty of amsterdam, leads us once again to ask ourselves with deep concern what we are doing.
the gradual shift to soft and renewable forms of energy is increasingly proving to be the only solution to the energy problem of post-industrial society.
the proposed amendment adds the qualifier 'sustainable' to 'effective integration', which improves the text.
unmik, which is responsible for the interim civilian administration in kosovo, is deploying considerable energy and resources to revive the economy of kosovo.
the rules governing international economic relations and trade must respect fundamental social rights, serve the interests of workers, contribute to the development of the least developed countries, protect the environment and create the conditions for development for all peoples.
the sustainability of european integration depends on the balance of this dual legitimacy.
the general affairs council noted with satisfaction that the first deliveries of fuel to the municipalities of niš and pirot under the 'energy for democracy' programme would take place before the end of november.
not only because the protesters caused the cancellation of the inaugural session but because they created a climate that even those who think they are masters of the world can no longer ignore.
similarly, in order to assess the need for transit authorizations, the calculations are based on current flows via the alps, and in particular via austria, without taking into account the fact that these flows are also regulated by the limiting system of ecological standards which provides for other quotas for member states.
they are closely coordinated under the auspices of the g8 and the international atomic energy agency.
the european union's policy must be fundamentally revised to include the following elements: democratization of the world trade organization; support for the family farming model; the establishment of mechanisms for the upgrading of workers in the third world so that their productive and commercial position is not compromised; environmental protection; the transfer of technology to the poorest countries; the remission of the international debt of the poorest countries; the protection of the world's multicultural identity against the american superpower of entertainment.
the council therefore takes decisions and even, it seems, elegantly passes the responsibility for them on to the environment committee of our parliament.
we had a somewhat confused debate in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and we have our debate here in the plenary.
the council also decided to supply heating oil for the winter as part of the 'energy for democracy' programme.
what have we done to the environment committee?
naturally, with the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, we are in full agreement with the proposals to bypass the co-decision procedure in order to save time and to ensure that the mandatory labelling system is introduced quickly.
i would nevertheless recommend the formula proposed by the committee on the environment, and i hope that we will be able to achieve mandatory labelling more quickly, even if it is by means of a questionable procedure.
i have been informed of all the work of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on agriculture and rural development on this proposal.
i pointed out yesterday to the council that there was an amendment tabled on monday by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.