the instability within the eu institutions and the war in kosovo have certainly not encouraged a climate of investor confidence.
the eu certainly now has a golden opportunity to put in place new policies in the fields of consumer rights, food safety and assistance to the elderly, as well as areas of environmental protection.
marine pollution, whether accidental or deliberate, is one of the main threats to the marine environment in western europe.
this region is one of the most industrialized in the world; chemical or radioactive substances and hydrocarbons are commonly discharged into the marine environment and transported by cargo ships.
we have had several tragic examples of accidental pollution from oil tankers or other types of ships carrying dangerous cargo.
the fact that no serious pollution accidents have been reported from the transport of radioactive substances by sea is more due to chance than to precautionary measures.
the marine environment has always been used as a dumping ground for a large part of industrial waste.
although the dumping of industrial and radioactive waste has not been stopped, the practice of uncontrolled dumping is now widely regarded as unacceptable.
the lesson here is that it is impossible to really get rid of waste.
this report stresses the need for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
in addition, the definition of marine accidental pollution should be extended to include operational discharges due to past practices, as well as discharges of radioactive and other hazardous substances, marine accidental and operational pollution.
despite the attention paid to the consequences of accidents, it is the operational discharges of oil, radioactive waste and other hazardous substances that are of most concern in terms of chronic pollution, given the lack of publicity for them.
in environmental terms, it does not matter whether it was accidental or deliberate, only the damage suffered.
in addition, although the direct dumping of industrial waste, including munitions, is a practice which has been largely abandoned by the member states, the sites of these dumps still represent a real threat to fisheries and, in some cases, to human safety, human safety, as for example the beaufort dyke, not far from the coast of my own country.
in addition, since the sea is the final destination for a large part of industrial waste from coastal and river sources, these sources should be included in the definition.
the transboundary nature of the marine environment, which implies that pollution affecting one region can spread to others, explains the need to establish a broad community framework for cooperation in the field of accidental marine pollution.
the sharing of information on oil, radioactive substances and other dangerous substances transported at sea, discharged at sea or buried, as a long-standing practice, is a prerequisite for facilitating the preparation and coordination of measures to mitigate the consequences of pollution accidents.
knowledge of the nature and extent of the pollution problem is also a prerequisite for effective preparation in terms of techniques, personnel and equipment.
it is therefore necessary to provide clear information on the risks to the public and the environment and to reassure the public, whose concerns are justified, by carrying out an accurate risk assessment.
in conclusion, it is obvious that once the marine environment has been contaminated or polluted, it is impossible to completely repair the damage.
however, a rapid, effective, appropriate and internationally coordinated response can mitigate the environmental and public health damage in the event of accidental pollution.
the dissemination of information on the threats of marine pollution - from oil, radioactive substances and other hazardous substances - will serve to put in place the most appropriate mitigation measures that will benefit from the public's trust.
i have discovered that british nuclear fuels ltd. has applied to the british ministry of the environment for permission to dump large quantities of technetium 99 in the irish sea in the near future.
if bnfl is having problems disposing of radioactive substances such as technetium 99, let it store this waste on british soil rather than dumping it into the irish sea.
the requests by bnfl to the uk government as to the amount of radioactive material it can discharge into the irish sea are timely because 15 september - this will be a very busy wednesday - is the deadline set by the ottawa convention's radioactive waste commission for the uk government to come forward with proposals to significantly reduce the discharge of radioactive substances into the marine environment.
it should be remembered that the principle of substantial reduction in the use of radioactive substances is at the heart of the ottawa convention on marine pollution.
i am very curious to see how the uk environment department intends to comply with the legal obligations arising from this important convention.
i remember in particular questions concerning the conflicts of competence between food law and food safety, the various conflicts that can be imagined with the world trade organisation and a host of other competencies, notably that of the environment commissioner.
since the entry into force of the treaty of amsterdam on 1 may, the codecision procedure, which involves close cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council, now covers a wide range of policies, including transport, regional affairs, social affairs, employment initiatives, the structural funds, consumer protection, public health and environmental concerns.
the crisis we have been through has given us new strength and i believe that we have new energy and that there must be new synergy between our institutions to get the union to work.
the codecision procedure covers a wide range of activities, including those relating to the transport sector, regional affairs, social issues, employment initiatives, the structural funds, consumer protection, public health and environmental concerns.
i would say that the list of possible functions is certainly not exhaustive and the responsibility of this agency could be guaranteed if it were required to produce an annual report and if its officials were required to appear regularly before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
this event underlines the efforts we are making here and the need to change energy policy and to change the budget for energy policy.
save is the only european-wide programme to promote the rational use of energy.
the save ii programme focuses on non-technical elements and supports the construction of energy efficiency infrastructure and therefore does not finance investments in equipment.
rather, the objective of this programme is to create an environment in which investment and energy efficiency are promoted and in which energy efficiency is recognised as an opportunity for the market.
we are aware of the competition problems of renewable energy, but energy saving also saves money and is therefore a good investment.
the evaluation highlighted the fact that the save programme was a valuable policy instrument to promote energy efficiency, but also stressed that a clear and consistent strategy for pilot actions is needed, that dissemination of results is key to long-term success and that long-term efficiency requires better ongoing monitoring and impact analysis.
the evaluation also showed that the actions of the save programme will indirectly lead to the achievement of the objectives of the non-nuclear energy r&d programme by creating a positive environment for the diffusion and implementation of new technologies in the field of renewable energy.
energy efficiency means less consumption, conservation of non-renewable energy sources and less dependence on energy imports, but above all it means reducing levels of environmental pollution caused by harmful substances such as co2, one of the major causes of the greenhouse effect.
the european parliament has often stressed the importance of actions to promote energy efficiency and the council has also stressed the need for energy savings and co2 emission reductions in a series of resolutions.
energy saving targets are unlikely to reach the levels envisaged in the save ii programme.
while the community has not been able to agree on what is probably the most effective instrument for reducing greenhouse gas emissions - namely the energy consumption tax - the commission and the council consider the save ii programme to be 'an important and necessary instrument'.
given the projected increase in co2 emissions and the insufficient budget allocated to save ii, it is unlikely that the programme will achieve the internationally agreed emission reduction targets.
however, in the context of the energy framework programme, save ii offers a chance to reverse the trend.
since there is a certain stagnation in the member states in terms of increasing energy efficiency, it is incumbent on the community to achieve the efficiency targets and to respect the commitments made in terms of reducing co2 emissions.
the finnish presidency has therefore announced that it will present an action plan for energy efficiency in the second half of 1999. this is a commendable and important initiative.
the commission is in favour of a community energy efficiency target.
given that the energy efficiency of final consumption has so far improved by around 1% per year, the commission recommends as a target a further 1% reduction in the energy intensity of final demand.
in view of the commitments we have made, as has already been pointed out, to reduce co2 emissions, it is hard to understand why the commission is limiting itself to this objective.
commission - i am afraid we cannot accept amendments nos 1, 2, 3 and 6. in our view, they are aimed at introducing an unrealistic target of increasing energy intensity by 1.5% over and above what would have been achieved.
the need for complementarity is clear in the areas of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
- the political benefit of genetic research to humanity is seriously undermined by those with material interests in it, in a way that is incompatible with sustainable development and more than in turn in conflict with acceptable ethical standards.
i believe that the eu and the governments of the member states must tighten up and control more the whole functioning of the field of genetic research and in particular the implementation of programmes which do not fully comply with the established guidelines on ethics, the environment and consumer protection.
the eu is far from meeting its legally binding commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
i am very concerned about the complacency of the irish government in respect of its commitments under the kyoto protocol, which it made in december 1997. by the year 2010, we are obliged to limit our greenhouse gas emissions to a level 13% higher than in 1990. the current forecast is that irish emissions will exceed this target by more than 40%.
as for the question of the energy tax, it is time we decided what exactly we mean by that.
i believe in the virtues of the carrot more than those of the stick, especially when it comes to environmental protection.
are we talking about climate change taxes, emissions taxes, more generally energy taxes, carbon taxes, carbon dioxide taxes?
we cannot export the problem of our developed world by taxing older factories with emissions standards problems and offshoring these jobs and production units to less developed parts of our planet that are less able to cope with environmental degradation.
what we want is a net reduction in the level of emissions and not the export of the problem from the west to developing countries.
i am also concerned about the planned increase in fluorocarbons, which currently make a minor contribution to total greenhouse gas emissions.
- there must be full cooperation between all the member states of the european union if we are to make a full contribution to reducing the level of emissions responsible for the greenhouse effect which is currently playing such a destructive role in the environment of our planet.
we owe it to future generations to consider seriously the long-term implications of uncontrolled co2 emissions and their impact on the environment.
i welcome the agreement of the european environment ministers to reduce the eu's emissions by 8% between 2008 and 2012. these figures will allow ireland to increase its emissions by only 13% compared with 1990. the european parliament has also worked hard on implementing legislation to reduce co2 use.
the new eu directive on pollutants requires oil companies to ensure that sulphur content in cars is reduced by one third and that the sulphur content of diesel is seven times as high by the year 2005. if the social, human and environmental benefits of clean air in general are to be guaranteed, the standards set by the recent european union directive on vehicle emissions and fuel quality will have to be strictly adhered to.
i welcome the discussions in the european parliament this week on the use of alternative energy sources.
the irish government has published a green paper on sustainable energy, which will be given special status in our national development plan for the period 2002-06. this green paper deals with the framework for reducing co2 emissions in all sectors of our society.
more investment is needed in alternative energy and the green paper also foresees a shift from the use of solid fuels and oil to the use of natural gas and renewable energy sources and electricity generation in the future.
the plan also proposes measures for selected consumer sectors to stimulate competence and practice in energy awareness in areas such as purchasing appliances, energy use in homes, building installations, heating systems, energy management in the public sector.
i would like to make it clear that this green paper on sustainable energy in ireland should be seen as a contribution to the debate on how to tackle the threat of climate change in the energy sector.
simply put, in the event of agreements, scientific evidence is needed that the additional pressure on fisheries imposed by the proposed community activities does not threaten the sustainability of fish stocks.
while this house would welcome the possibility of a safer working environment, not only for employees but also for consumers and other transport users, etc., i think we must be careful not to over-regulate any one particular area.
i have, however, in my possession a study by university college dublin which highlights the negative impact of this proposed extension of the directive, not only in terms of safety and competitiveness but also in terms of damage to the environment.
in ireland we have had a road safety plan in place since 1998. it is a five-year plan to reduce road deaths and traffic congestion and to ensure that the quality of vehicles in circulation meets the highest possible standards to protect the environment.
if the tachograph legislation could be rigorously enforced, would we need the amendment that is proposed to us, would we need to double the number of trucks and heavy goods vehicles on the roads, with the environmental impact that this implies?
- the european union and the member states must work consistently in close collaboration with the european automotive and oil industry to ensure that we end pollution once and for all in the near future.
the large car industry has been identified on many occasions in parliament's reports as the major cause of air pollution and parliament is now playing an active role in setting thresholds for different pollutants in order to control this environmental problem.
it goes without saying that the european parliament must support a whole range of pollution control measures in order to meet the kyoto commitments which call for an 8% reduction in the emissions of six greenhouse gases in the european union by the period 2008-2012. i would point out that the european commission and the european parliament have held extensive consultations with the european automotive industry on these various matters, and the european automotive industry has voluntarily accepted a timetable to reduce co2 emissions by 25% on new vehicles by 2008. we have made significant progress in this area in recent years, for example, with systems installed in cars that are over 80,000 km long and that were built more than five years ago, to monitor the durability of pollution control equipment.
we can also use tax incentives to encourage the rapid introduction of vehicles with advanced pollution control systems.
we also supported measures to cut sulphur levels in petrol by three and in diesel by seven by 2005. the lange report on the control of emissions of gases and other pollutants from vehicles is in line with the progress made to date.
let me conclude by recalling that since may of this year the european parliament has had the power of codecision on all matters relating to the environment as a result of the ratification of the treaty of amsterdam.
the european parliament must use these new powers to promote stricter legislation even in the field of environmental control.
- the most crucial requirement of energy and environmental policy as we approach the new millennium is to meet the commitments of kyoto and in this respect the co2 tax would play a major role.
in fact, we are far from meeting the commitments we made in kyoto on energy.
it is accepted that energy saving, rational planning and renewable energy are the most important way forward, with the exception of the co2 tax, on which, as i said, no agreement has yet been reached.
they are the right way to go towards sustainability, but we are not applying these measures vigorously enough.
the most recent energy intensity statistics show that we are at zero for the year 1996. we are actually backing down after seven years of trying to meet the commitments on climate change: it is not only unacceptable but also scandalous.
nuclear energy has no place in the environmental dimension of energy policy because it is not sustainable.
we are not in a position to tackle the problem of nuclear waste, although various fanciful solutions have been proposed, such as sending it to the moon.
we would be out of our minds if we agreed with mr chichester that nuclear energy is a solution.
i also feel that the commission has been extremely wise in avoiding any reference to nuclear energy in its own proposals and i would advise you to maintain this approach because it is a very divisive proposal and we will certainly not accept it.
we want the commitments in the white paper on renewable energy, for example, to be implemented.
reference was made to the internal market and this is the most important environment in which we operate: the large subsidies to coal and nuclear energy must be stopped and renewable energy, as an important part of environmental policy, must be realistically supported.
legally binding targets for renewable energy are an important aspect of this strategy, but we also need to establish the outsourcing of internal costs in relation to traditional energy production.
ultimately, i think if we establish a level playing field, we will see the rise of other forms of energy.
the commission's communication on the strengthening of the integration of the environment into the community's energy policy is to be welcomed, given its realistic approach to the issue.
sustainable development is not just a vague objective, it is an obligation imposed by the treaties and must therefore be the basic principle of any future european energy policy.
the union has already set clear targets in the field of energy to reduce co2 emissions by 8% by the middle of the next decade and, of course, to double the share of renewable energy sources by 2010, from 6% to 12%.
in my own country, ireland, for example, €160 million is needed to develop an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
i believe that these objectives can be achieved through the joint efforts of the community and the member states, who have the primary responsibility for energy policy.
we must ensure that sufficient flexibility is allowed to take account of the necessary adjustment of the energy market in transition.
mr chichester acknowledged that parliament could play only a limited role in energy policy, since this was essentially a matter for the member states.
however, we speak clearly and consistently when it comes to environmental issues and the environmental impact of energy production is obvious and considerable.
i support initiatives at european level which contribute to the efforts of the member states to meet their commitments under the kyoto agreements to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector.
in conclusion, i believe that there is much to be learned from an exchange of views between member states on energy policy and i support mr chichester in calling on the commission to highlight examples of best practice in integrating environmental objectives into energy policy.
all those who care about human rights, the environment and animal welfare have a better chance of advancing these different causes by integrating them into the legal framework of a world trade organization than by allowing a general brawl to develop, with the law of the jungle as the only rule.
as a sovereign and non-nuclear nation, ireland has the right to self-determination with regard to the health of its people and its environment.
another problem to be considered in the construction of new ships is waste and waste management infrastructure.
this is not only waste from operating ships but also waste generated during the voyage, as marine pollution is a major problem and is mainly caused by ships.
but the marine environment has no boundaries, so that whatever happens in a given area eventually comes back to us.
we support the democratic change in yugoslavia and the european union has rightly started to implement pilot projects based on the 'energy for democracy' initiative.
the finnish presidency opened accession negotiations on seven additional chapters: emu, social policy and employment, free movement of capital, services, taxation, energy, transport, all of which form highly demanding social and economic sectors.
i am particularly pleased to see that we are now beginning to deal with the energy chapter.
the sea is their natural environment, they observe it every day.
- mr president, the standards set by the recent eu directive on vehicle emissions and fuel quality must be strictly adhered to if we are to guarantee the social, human and environmental benefits of clean air.
i welcome the debate in parliament this week on the use of alternative energy sources.
the irish government has presented a green paper on sustainable energy which is about to receive special status in our national development plan for the period 2000-06. this green paper contains reflections on the framework for reducing co2 emissions in all sectors of our society.
we need to give a wider envelope to alternative energy sources.
the transition from solid fuels and oil to natural gas and renewable energy sources and electricity generation is also planned in the future.
the plan also proposes measures targeting various consumer sectors, which aim to increase consumer energy sensitivity, improve expertise and practice in areas such as purchasing appliances, energy use in homes, building installations, heating systems, and energy management at the level of industry, the service sector and also the public sector.
the publication of the green paper on sustainable energy in ireland should be seen as a positive contribution to the debate on how we deal with the threat of climate change in the energy sector.