the negotiations on the wto, on world trade, will be the test for europe to see whether it is able to condition the absolute primacy of free trade in goods, which is now dominant, on the need to protect the conditions of workers in the world, the environmental conditions and the health of the world's population and of the european population in particular.
we entered this conflict on milosevic's sole responsibility; we have emerged from it thanks to european cohesion, solidarity between allies, a new political climate between europe, the usa and russia.
young people in particular expect - and we ourselves expect - from the commission a great policy for training, research, culture and the environment, and then economic growth and freedom, freedom from bureaucracy and constraint.
we must remember that it is the capacity to grow, to expand and to meet ever new challenges that has made the union both unique and sustainable.
we will continue to work on gender equality, social and ecological sustainability, youth and citizens' well-being.
i would like to wish you and the members of this house energy and tenacity, heart and will at the beginning of the session and assure you that the finnish presidency expects a great deal from our cooperation.
reconstruct kosovo with the protagonism of the people who live and have lived there, the albanians and the serbs; at the same time, rebuild serbia and montenegro, the infrastructure devastated and destroyed by the bombings; repair and investigate environmental damage; the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force.
we demand a firm and determined attitude from the commission, we want it to defend, within the framework of the world trade organisation, the supremacy of social rights, the defence of the environment, the protection of the european agricultural model and the consumer in relation to world trade.
- (it) mr president-elect of the commission, we appreciated your report on various aspects: the enlargement of the european union, the reform of the institutions, the strengthening and economic growth of the union as a whole and sustainable development with a view to creating jobs.
i am very pleased that many speakers have said that we must not make the european union a fortress, but rather a safe area that will have a natural relationship with its environment.
i believe they helped create a climate of security which was still present during the vote.
i would also like to mention the seriousness of the acts of terrorism and the climate of fear in east timor.
i do not even know whether this machine, which is noisy, emits any harmful emissions to the operator's health.
we know all the components of dioxin: chlorine, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen.
how did we discover this " super-pollution " ?
the solutions must be based on three very specific aspects: 1) the consumer; 2) a new agro-environmental revolution; 3) a precise political orientation which must come precisely from the community bodies.
we must learn from cases like dioxin and realise that if farmers are entitled to higher incomes in the case of higher environmental standards, such conditions should also be applied at the level of food, all the more so when it comes to food production.
i myself will take up here a precise but complex tangle of characteristics: hygiene, traceability, safety, precise production characteristics - also environmental - nutritional values, etc.
but quality - not the quality of bulk products which i mentioned in reference to the world market - must be recognized both in normal situations and, for even stronger reasons, in conditions of almost constant environmental risks for the producer.
- the following reports by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to bulgaria (com (99) 0403 - c5-0098/1999 - 1999/0165 (cns)) are requested for joint debate: - a5-0018/1999 by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (com (99) 0404 - c5-0099/1999 - 1999/0166 (cns)) - a5-0019/1999 by mr martin, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the granting of additional macrofinancial assistance to romania (com (99) 0405 - c5-0097/1999 - 1999/0167 (cns)).
the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide the community with a financial contribution to the development of the community's energy sector.
it is not enough to look at the very low figures we are going to spend on renewable energy, perhaps we should also spend some time looking at the financial energies we are spending on other forms of energy, in particular nuclear energy.
so today we are going to spend, for the same period of the year, 60 million euros on fission, 15 million euros on renewable energy, and 200 million euros on fusion, and that gives us an idea of the real policies that the european union is pursuing.
we must demand at least more money than we are going to spend on an energy we know nothing about, nuclear fusion, and we must immediately abolish the funds we are allocating to fission and transfer them entirely and directly to renewable energy.
when today the major nuclear countries of europe, such as germany, are questioning their nuclear programme and france is starting to talk about it, we cannot continue to spend enormous sums, four times as much, i repeat, as we spend on renewable energies, on these energy policies.
- (it) mr president, madam commissioner, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs ahern, for her work, which emphasizes the importance of promoting and improving energy efficiency.
greater energy efficiency will mean, in the medium term, a reduction in consumption, the safeguarding of renewable energy resources, a reduction in our dependence on energy imports, and a reduction in environmental pollution.
in this connection, i would remind you that achieving energy efficiency in the short term comes at a cost to both companies and end consumers.
therefore, targets for reducing final energy consumption should be carefully evaluated.
i would remind you that promoting efficient energy consumption through extremely restrictive and perhaps unbearable legislative instruments and standards is not always effective.
energy saving is a complex process of maturation, focused on the technological and economic awareness of companies and consumers.
information campaigns to raise public awareness on energy-saving issues are welcome, but i do not see how the adoption of extremely binding legislative measures can be the most effective way of reducing final energy consumption.
i refer here to amendment no 1, recital 11, the new recital 15a and amendment no 6 to article 1. conclusions: in the light of these considerations, i would like to draw your attention to the need, in such complex matters, in which the market and its rules are confronted with the collective welfare, to carry out analyses relating costs and benefits, with the long period of time for the introduction of measures to reduce final energy consumption as a reference point.
such analyses are possible in transparent markets where each subject, the final consumer - company or consumer - can always assess how efficient energy consumption is through a process of technological and economic maturation, aided by efficient research and as complete information as possible.
the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i am pleased that a number of joint working parties have already met, or will soon meet, on subjects as diverse as consular affairs and environmental issues.
we fully agree that this is a serious problem from both a safety and environmental point of view and the commission can accept both amendments.
history is full of cases of restructuring, transfer, closure of firms - mr wurtz has mentioned a few - which not only reduce the level of employment but also jeopardise the economic and social cohesion of the regions affected, creating a climate of social insecurity among workers, a climate which in no way promotes development and growth.
i am convinced that the peace movements against nuclear - which did so much in the 1970s and 1980s - can resume their activities by working with us and with parliament to really enable us to live in a world without nuclear energy.
one issue that is particularly close to my heart is the success of the negotiations on the multilateral nuclear environment programme, which is an attempt to ensure that western donors can provide technical and financial assistance for the storage and disposal of nuclear waste, all those terrifying and rusty nuclear submarines and other nuclear waste, in north-western russia.
the european fleet is very careful to respect the specific environmental compatibility standards in fishing - biological rest period, fishing framework, prohibition of fishing with trawlers, etc.
- (it) mr president, a lot has already been said which i think can be summed up as follows: either the macroeconomic dialogue is a pure hypocrisy, to hide the absence of a real economic policy for the union, in which case it is totally useless, duplicates and is a waste of time, as has already been said by other colleagues; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
as regards the nuclear issue in particular, and my colleague mr lamy, as you know, mrs maes has alluded to it, mr lamy sent a letter to the chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, mr westendorp, today, in which he takes stock of the situation and says very clearly, and i am replying to mrs maes at the same time, that official confirmation from russia is still needed to proceed with the initial draft of the decision of 12 december 1994. so it is the russians who still lack this agreement with regard to the reply that mr lamy has just given you.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0047/1999) by mr linkohr, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the argentine republic (com (1999) 292 - c5-0040/1999 - 1999/0125 (cns)).
as you have pointed out, argentine researchers have so far only benefited from cooperation actions on issues such as nutrition, health or the environment.
the agreement will enable both parties to exploit the full potential of the countries' advanced research capacities for sustainable development, as has been emphasised, but also, as you can see, in the field of the specific programme 'energy and the environment', in the field of renewable energies, taking into account the kyoto commitments.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0040/1999), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the availability of information on fuel consumption and co2 emissions to consumers when new passenger cars are sold (5617/2/1999 - c5-0037/1999 - 1998/0272 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr sterckx).
- (sv) mr president, i should first like to thank the committee on the environment, and of course mr sterckx, for the work he has done on this recommendation for second reading, and in particular for having shown that it is possible to work quickly and efficiently.
we believe that consumers should be systematically informed, without undue delay, about the fuel consumption of new passenger cars and the carbon dioxide emissions they emit.
we have followed the discussions in the committee on the environment very closely.
it is more than likely that we will be returning to some of the comments made by the committee on the environment in the course of this work.
the commission also plans to create a web page containing information on fuel consumption and carbon dioxide emissions from cars sold in the european union.
i would also like to say that i do not intend to initiate any new projects in the field of environmental protection until the question of the role of the european parliament has been resolved.
in conclusion, i would like to say that the commission is pleased that the common position has been so well received by the rapporteur and the committee on the environment.
but beyond that, i think, as he does, that the problem with our parliament is that we do not find the time to deal in a general and thorough manner with the question of energy policy.
in fact, with the recent report on renewable energies, this fundamental question has been watered down: i agree with our rapporteur and many of the speakers.
as far as this report is concerned, we cannot limit it to the environmental impact of co2 this is a very important aspect of the problem, but as mr belder and others have said, there are many other aspects, particularly nuclear but not only nuclear, which have environmental implications and which will therefore have to be addressed.
in the absence of a single energy policy, the european union is increasing its resources, particularly for research.
the 12% renewable energy target is quite insufficient and yet we risk not reaching it.
it is therefore urgent to unify this energy debate in order to determine exactly our investment choices and to put an end to these contradictions which mean that at least five members of the european union, austria, italy, denmark, portugal and greece, which do not use nuclear energy, are obliged to finance a policy which is still more than 50% subsidised by the european union in the field of nuclear energy.
i think it is urgent to open a debate to have a real discussion on the energy question and not to practice the policy of sausage making as has been the case until now.
while remaining very vague on most environmental issues concerning the energy sector, the resolution calls for nuclear electricity generation in eu countries to maintain at least its current share in the future.
however, far more than electricity generation, the reduction of co2 emissions raises the problem of transport organisation - on which the resolution is silent.
how silent it is about the considerable dangers inherent in the production of nuclear power and the accumulation, over the very long term, of radioactive waste!
in parallel with the meeting of governments, thousands of ngos, women and men from civil society will gather in seattle: they are strongly demanding that the wto not become one of the seats of this world government, based on growth and the supremacy of the most savage liberalism, which ignores the increase in poverty in the less industrialized and weaker countries, the destruction of the environment, the defence of natural and human resources and the differences and diversities of each country, all in the name of a globalization that continues to create wealth for the few and poverty for the many.
in the chechen crisis, the energy factor - gas and oil - played an important role.
if we can meet these constraints and improve the quality of life through sustainable development, both economically and environmentally, we will certainly have laid the foundations for a better society for the new millennium.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
in this area, alongside market liberalisation for developing countries, there is a call not only for the maintenance of community principles - support for environmental policy, definition of a food policy aimed at consumer protection - but also for the protection of typical national agricultural characteristics and products.
it is important that the schwaiger report and this parliament recognize that the world trade organisation is the appropriate framework for serious investment negotiations where we will have to give priority to security and clarity of law in investment protection but also, of course, to the protection of the social, environmental and cultural laws of the states.
it nevertheless takes into account that the liberalisation of international trade, even in new environments - such as investment - is particularly important for the countries of the european union and all countries interested in the sustainable development of the world economy.
i am not sure that the commission is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
it would be bad for the environment if poor countries, unable to sell their products to european and american markets, insisted on exploiting natural resources.
europe must be clearly aware of the role it must play, it must be balanced and responsible, in order to achieve a humane globalisation, open and ready to accept changes and accelerations in the economy, but also a globalisation capable of guaranteeing the right to work and the protection of the environment and health.
the european union is setting out the methods and timetable for the phasing out of ozone-depleting substances, and i assure you that i am not underestimating the danger of the present situation.
secondly, they are, in the present state of knowledge, the only real alternative in the field of fire-fighting agents to halons, the number one enemy of the ozone layer, which are still widely used in developing countries.
it is a pity that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has not tried to find a reasonable and realistic compromise.
the european union must be at the forefront, as was said again this evening, but when it comes to protecting the stratospheric ozone layer, the results are not measured by the progress made in europe but by a general framework.
this frustration is even deeper when, in the presence of new scientific evidence, as in the case of substances that attack the ozone layer, bureaucracy and emotionality, taking precedence over politics and science, do not make it possible to make new amendments admissible that are valid from a scientific point of view.
these substances have a very low ozone-depleting potential - 1200 times less than halons - and are much better tolerated by the environment than substances such as hfcs or pfcs which parliament unfortunately authorizes, despite the fact that they are more harmful because they have a high warming potential and remain in the atmosphere for six to seven thousand years.
these conclusions are also those of internationally qualified scientific bodies such as the 1998 cairo conference, the parties to the montreal protocol, the 1999 ozone depletion panel and the uk department of the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances.
the aim of the harmonization process is to achieve the highest level of safety and environmental protection and to improve quality, which benefits both industry and consumers.
this will give a decisive boost to the competitiveness of our automobile industry on the world stage, while improving safety and environmental conditions, in the interests of the consumer.
but let us wait perhaps two or three months until the temperature and climate allow us to do this exercise under the best conditions.
- the agenda calls for the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the fifth conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change.
- (fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate policy has been one of the key environmental issues during the finnish presidency.
i think it's important to realize that climate policy is likely to be one of the biggest challenges facing the planet and humanity over the next century.
in its resolution, the european parliament rightly notes that the commitments made so far are still insufficient to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees by the next century and that new commitments are needed to complement those already made.
in addition, we have agreed on an action programme which will, in my view, enable the decisions necessary for ratification of the kyoto protocol to be taken at the sixth conference of the parties to the framework convention on climate change (cop 6) to be held in the hague next autumn.
at community level, and in order to integrate climate policy into other areas of policy-making, finland has in particular implemented environmental strategies in the fields of energy, transport and agriculture.
it should be borne in mind that these strategies are only the first step in a process which is hoped to be sustainable in order to implement and develop environmental strategies.
in the long term, we believe that multiple links with climate policy is the best solution.
it is very important for the union to build a bridge between us and the developing countries, to seek solutions which are equally justified in the eyes of these countries and which are win-win solutions, which benefit both development and the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has recently launched a new initiative to improve the quality of the environment.
in my view, it is important that nuclear energy cannot be accepted as a method of application in the context of cdn and joint implementation projects.
the environment ministers meeting at cop 5 had a firm opinion on this matter.
naturally, however, this is a real challenge in view of the current trend of greenhouse gas emissions, which are rising when they should be falling.
the introduction of an environmental tax is one of the key points in this connection.
many meps illustrated the debate with problems such as floods, storms and other climate disasters, which indicate that climate change is already under way.
after the kyoto agreements, we must be able to commit to greater emission reductions in order to prevent rapid and dangerous global warming.
firstly, the measures taken by the union itself to reduce its own emissions, which is also a crucial issue for the international credibility of the european union.
i would like to comment on the question of the energy tax.
our consumption behaviour influences the climate and the energy tax, the co2 tax, is a way of making the price an eco-label.
we all know how difficult it was to reach a decision on the energy tax at european union level, but the conclusions of the cologne summit, for example, acknowledge the importance of this issue.
the council's common position on the famous directive on strategic environmental impact assessment, which is a good instrument for assessing the environmental impact of various programmes and measures - and also of emissions - is a step forward, achieved at the meeting of the council of environment ministers on monday.
concern about climate change is a notable concern among the american public.
the combined effects of climate change are threatening and have already threatened their respective countries in such a way that they know this is essential for their future and their survival.
we have made climate change in accordance with an idea that is politically correct and that we find in words, in a document, at the top of the agenda, but unfortunately we can see that the trends are going in the wrong direction.
we will need more financial instruments: we must actually give the environment a value so that we can see alternatives develop.
i hope that the documents we will be presenting on behalf of the commission early next year will provide this driving force in all the work to combat climate change.
it is the european community that has the delicate task of choosing whether it is better to continue to make progress or to think about the care, the health and the environment of our great-great-great-great-grandchildren.
in this respect, it is probably worth recalling that for all projects evaluated and prepared by the eib, respect for the environment is one of the basic conditions for approval of project financing, as was also the case for the gardaland project.
we did not ask for information on the reasons why the eib had granted the loan, we simply wanted to know the general criteria justifying the loan and the assessments on the basis of which the project had been examined - a project which, moreover, concerns one of the richest areas of italy, characterized by a fragile environmental balance - and the loan granted.
- (it) mr president, the process of globalisation of our economy, which includes the completion of the single market, is made up of regional districts and energy centres which become international because they manage to form a network.