we are developing our energy policy in a given context: we want to protect the environment, we want to reduce co2 emissions, and that is why we must be particularly concerned about whether the liberalisation of the european electricity market, as is currently being carried out in some member states, is not counterproductive.
the brutal liberalization which has been practiced in germany is already putting pressure on biomass and solar energy projects and in the social field it will of course ensure that we will soon inherit a large number of small michelin stars as a result of the rationalization of employment to raise the share prices of energy production companies.
i particularly like the danish model: access to the networks is transparent, there is an energy tax that corrects prices, clear objectives are set for renewable energies, there is a virtually protected market.
we also need this protected market for renewable energy and for thermal power stations.
in my view, the correction at national level, the ecological and social safeguards, are not enough in the context of this liberalization.
i think that in the field of renewable energy we need mechanisms similar to those we have today in the field of nuclear energy.
we need an export guarantee because, on the whole, renewable energy means much more jobs and environmental protection.
that is the price we should be paying for renewable energy.
we are convinced, however, that the dialogue will have a positive effect on the climate of the economic policy debate.
the conclusions of the cologne council also stress that the macroeconomic dialogue is envisaged as a sustainable and continuous process.
the paper presents the macroeconomic conditions for encouraging sustainable growth, drawing some conclusions from the slow growth of the past, particularly from the mid-1970s onwards.
it should be stressed that the change of regime introduced with the launch of economic and monetary union has made it easier for national macroeconomic policymakers to overcome these obstacles so that growth is more sustainable.
the paper analyses the conditions for the policy mix to remain as balanced as possible, so that growth can be restored in a more sustainable way.
as regards economic policy - the second document already addresses the challenge of transforming the cyclical recovery into a sustainable process of higher growth - each participant set out his views very frankly.
- (de) mr president, to avoid further destruction of the ozone layer, we must first of all limit the exceptions that remain.
the minister for the environment supports them.