what concerns us is the way in which the german presidency of the environment council has dealt with the draft directive on the recycling of car wrecks.
if feed mills can no longer collect waste grease from catering establishments, who will?
the environmental problems would be unfathomable.
on the one hand, there is strong support for the project of a 'citizens' europe' in the areas of food, air quality and the environment.
it's about controlling marine pollution.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has rightly added dangerous chemicals and radioactivity to the list.
in order to achieve this important task, the water framework directive, it is very important to control pollution of the marine environment.
even those who favour nuclear energy and chlorine chemistry might vote in favour of this report.
(nl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs jackson has written an excellent report on the problems of compliance with environmental laws.
but ultimately, as the european union, we must move towards an independent environmental inspectorate.
at present, countries that do not respect environmental laws must monitor themselves.
we're not there yet with the environmental inspector.
but if the economy and the environment were equally important, unannounced european environmental inspections would also be possible.
(nl) mr president, we in this parliament are committed to the protection of the environment.
effective implementation and enforcement of environmental law is of course very important for environmental protection.
production would then shift to the country with the worst environmental regulations; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
that is why we must spend a lot of time and energy in the coming period on improving enforcement and defence so that we can have sufficient assurance that our policy will contribute to a real improvement in the environment.
i would like to stress the importance of an equivalent qualitative defence of european environmental legislation.
in addition, member states are fully responsible for the application of european environmental legislation.
after some hesitation, i was persuaded by mrs jackson's argument that the minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states should be merged into a directive and not be satisfied with the european commission's non-binding recommendation.
however, in the future, this directive on environmental inspections will not have to be amended.
this leads to waste of money, staff and reduced efficiency.
by showing how much the council is prepared to change its plans for the management board, we can show the public what the council's real motives are and whether it really is reluctant to waste.
the risks they take are described by the grim but realistic observation of iranian political analysts, i quote, "as long as the principle prevails in iran that those who think differently are considered unbelievers, that the right to decide life or death or to take the fate of the country into their own hands derives from religion, the political climate of the country will remain poisoned and violence that is politically justified will be expected".
secondly, i am also furious that french legislation seems to give a lot of weight to the artistic ownership of corridors, lights and impossible stairs but not to energy saving, whereas in my country, for example, a third of new homes are equipped with solar panels.
finally, on the question of waste sorting.
yesterday morning i noticed that although we had two bins for different types of waste - which in itself was a step backwards from the previous situation - both bins were emptied in the same bag.
if in the united states the name of a company and its director is published as a result of an infringement of environmental legislation, perhaps we could do the same in the netherlands.
- (nl) mr president, madam rapporteur, madam commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ahern, for the energetic way in which she took over the multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency save ii for the period 1998-2002 from the previous rapporteur, mrs bloch von blottnitz, and for the way in which she prepared it for the second reading by this house.
the community programme for energy efficiency and energy saving save ii is an important and necessary part of the european community's strategy for promoting the efficient use of energy and for reducing co2 emissions.
as an instrument of a political strategy, the save programme is also complemented by the specific programme in the field of energy, environment and renewable energy technology established in the fifth framework programme for research, development and demonstration activities in the field of these technologies.
a number of greenhouse gas emission targets were set in rio de janeiro and berlin.
by the year 2000, 180 to 200 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions could be avoided by improving the energy intensity of final consumption by 5% compared with normal forecasts.
the rapporteur proposes an annual improvement in the energy intensity of final consumption of 1.5% over what would have been achieved.
but we must be careful not to present households, energy companies and others with objectives which are obviously attractive but which remain virtually unattainable.
the principle of subsidiarity requires that a significant proportion of energy efficiency measures be taken at local, regional or national level.
the energy sectors in these countries are significantly behind the eu member states in energy efficiency.
but in the field of energy saving, much more could be achieved in these countries by similar efforts as those undertaken in the eu countries, which are more efficient.
i therefore hope that energy companies from the member states of the european union, which have considerable experience in the efficient use of energy, will be able to pass on their knowledge to these countries and that these companies, madam commissioner, will have a real chance of participating in these projects rather than being sidelined by american companies.
when i hear the council, the commission and the members, i feel like hedgehogs, afraid to sting each other, knowing that they seem to agree on all the important subjects, and i quote them again: the social aspects that mr hansenne has just mentioned, sustainable development, culture, the principle of prevention for foodstuffs, the agricultural issue, the developing world, animal welfare.
we must succeed in combining the best of both worlds, even in the sensitive field of consumer and environmental protection.
many conflicts over the environment and consumer protection can be avoided by applying the precautionary principle.
we are on the eve of a new climate change conference.
given the differing views on climate change, there will be many more conferences in the future.
according to an ipcc report, a 35% reduction in co2 emissions in 2010 compared to 1999 is needed to contain sea level and temperature rise.
the basis for drastic reductions in greenhouse gases is therefore greatly reduced.
we must, however, beware of demanding reductions in other countries without taking action ourselves to limit co2 emissions.
this creates a real climate of anxiety.
the horizontal approach is precisely the way to stimulate activities linked to the priority subjects of our policy, namely human rights, the environment and emancipation.
we must also ensure that measures taken at national and european level improve the economic climate in europe.
let us leave it to the committee on budgets to define the framework and to the committee on the environment to establish the priorities in terms of the content of the projects and to translate them into financial terms.
- (nl) mr president, in a free market without restrictions on competition, the firm that produces at the best price has the best chance of survival, even if the product can only be cheap if it is produced under deplorable working conditions, low wages, environmental pollution or animal cruelty.
but there is also much to be gained in the field of the environment and energy.
technical support for the promotion of energy efficiency, energy saving and clean and renewable energy sources would enable china to reduce co2 production.
to be very specific, does the russian government, for example, attach the same importance as we do to ecological emergencies?
- (nl) mr president, the concept of the internal market is based on economic activity in a competitive environment without frontiers, where the same laws apply to everyone, a level playing field.
i can give you many examples: the fresh meat directive, the liberalization of telecommunications, the environmental directives, the slaughterhouse directive.
the council has just this summer rejected a regulation to increase the tax burden on energy and to reduce the burden on labour.
the only positive thing i have read recently in the netherlands about the environment is that the improvement resulting from the marketing of these clean vehicles is already visible.
i should also like to say, quite frankly, that some members of our group do not entirely agree with the report and the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
those who feel that the requirements imposed by the committee on the environment and its rapporteur, mr lange, on commercial vehicles are too strict should consider the following.
i therefore urge that the proposals of the committee on the environment be approved in the vote tomorrow.
however, the liberal group believes that in practice the application of this limit value in 2006 forces the industry to use only one technology, whereas we are not convinced of the environmental benefits of this technology.
in addition, we strongly support the rapporteur's proposals for reducing co2 emissions to meet the kyoto targets, but also the tax incentives for retrofitting old vehicles and the adaptation of test conditions, such as measuring the actual emissions of vehicles in operation.
these are large vehicles that cover long distances and therefore cause significant co2 emissions.
this will help to achieve the proposed emissions in a timely manner.
mr lange rightly pointed out that in addition to emissions, other standards will apply to environmentally friendly vehicles, such as the noise and fuel consumption standards already mentioned.
(nl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bernd lange has tabled an excellent report on behalf of the committee on the environment.
on 20 december last year the council of environment ministers adopted some good amendments tabled by our colleague mr hautala, imposing strict limits on air pollution and banning the emission of carcinogenic soot particles from lorries.
i'm talking about the co2 emissions from the trucks.
one in five women in the european union is a victim of violence, and this also applies to our immediate environment.
violence usually occurs in the family environment, which makes the phenomenon less visible.
this also results in endless transitional periods for the other applicant countries in the environmental field, so that they do not, and i quote the government document, 'increase the financial contribution'.
however, we have reservations about recitals c and l and paragraphs 4 and 5. mr president, the benefits of nuclear energy are not as indisputable as these paragraphs suggest.
while nuclear energy contributes to our co2 emission targets, it simultaneously aggravates our environmental problems due to nuclear waste, which is diametrically opposed to the objectives of this commission communication, namely a stronger integration of the environment into energy policy.
energy policy is subject to the principle of subsidiarity, but its transfrontier environmental impact is a european problem par excellence.
now that sustainable development is an objective of the treaty, it would also make sense to incorporate an energy paragraph into the treaty which allows for an integrated approach to energy and the environment.
ladies and gentlemen, liberalization will eventually lead to a fall in energy prices, but this fall will not have the effect of increasing energy consumption, since energy is and remains an important budget item, both for companies and for individuals.
another impetus to the integration of energy and environmental policy is the introduction of an eco-tax, as already exists in the netherlands and sweden.
the introduction of this eco-tax can lead to greater energy efficiency and, consequently, to a reduction in energy consumption.
- (nl) mr president, the amsterdam treaty stipulates that the environment must be integrated into other policies, and this is of course the case for european energy policy, since this policy has considerable implications for the environment.
the co2 issue is dealt with very partially, both in the european commission's communication and in the draft resolution of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
other environmental impacts are at risk of being overlooked in energy policy.
in this connection, let us consider the emissions of substances and particles generating acid rain during the production of electricity in particular.
amendments nos 1 and 4 stress that conventional energy production releases not only co2 but also harmful substances which contribute to smog and acid rain.
the policy of reducing co2 cannot be pursued at the expense of efforts to reduce the abovementioned emissions.
the use of cogeneration is recommended in amendments nos 2 and 5 in order to save energy and therefore reduce co2 emissions.
amendment no 3 insists that while the use of nuclear energy may reduce co2 emissions, a whole range of other environmental impacts, such as the storage of radioactive waste, must also be taken into account.
in amendment no 6 we ask the commission to take into account all the environmental impacts when comparing different energy sources.
but as i have already pointed out, no attention is paid to a host of other environmental impacts.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not a factor which is not taken into account in energy policy.
the whole of european union policy seems to be directed towards the outside and the finnish presidency seems to be pushing forward with energy.
the coup by moscow in the caucasus is certainly also due to rivalry with the west for the energy resources of the caspian sea and manifests a revival of the imperialist idea.
wto member countries must be able to prioritise public health, animal welfare, environmental protection and solidarity with developing countries in their policies.
we cannot offer the western consumer the choice of environmentally friendly products without at the same time encouraging the use of ecological production processes in developing countries.
at the same time, it is unacceptable that the world should become economically richer thanks to a new wto agreement, but at the same time become poorer in the field of culture or the environment, or even in the agricultural sector, and that we should lose things to which europe attaches essential value.
to all those who argue for the dismantling of the agricultural policy in the context of the wto, i would like to remind you that europe has its own standards in the field of the environment, animal health and consumer protection.
those who argue for the dismantling of the european common agricultural policy also argue for the removal of all that we have achieved in terms of the environment, animal health, prosperity and well-being for people.
- (nl) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i should like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work, although i also have some criticisms to make.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy considers it of great importance that improvements be made to the treaties in the course of their next revision, particularly in the two areas of trade policy and energy policy.
the inclusion of sustainable development among the objectives of the amsterdam treaty requires an integrated approach to environmental and energy policy.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy therefore advocates the introduction of a chapter on energy in the treaty.
unfortunately, the two rapporteurs and the committee on constitutional affairs do not want to take up the amendments on energy policy and the euratom treaty from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
my group supports the ambitions of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy with regard to energy policy.
the time has come for parliament to send the appropriate signals to the council and the commission on all matters relating to the integration of the environmental dimension into energy policy.
- (nl) mr president, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has examined the action plan on drugs.
the solution to the year 2000 nuclear power sector bug is first and foremost the task of the international atomic energy association (iaea).
we must urgently promote a stability pact through all the contacts we have as the european commission in collaboration with the united nations, we must encourage the political attention and energy of those working on the ground to achieve a stability pact.
the current shipbuilding directive contains all kinds of non-transparent aid schemes for research and development, the environment, innovation and regional aid policy; so, good works are punished while bad works are rewarded.
i therefore fully support the development of a daughter directive on carbon monoxide and benzene.
the proposed standards are ambitious: 70% reduction in benzene emissions and 30% reduction in co emissions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the emissions of co2 from the transport sector.
in power stations, waste incineration plants, cement kilns and cars, it is possible to reduce carbon monoxide emissions.
one way to combat benzene emissions is to use automotive fuels more carefully.
and we will continue to oppose it as long as it is at the expense of the volume of expenditure allocated to a good social policy, to good public services, to an active environmental policy and to an income policy in favour of low wages.
for example, funding through the structural funds of projects which are in contradiction with environmental protection must be stopped immediately.
parliament must do everything in its power to prove that it is serious when it talks about avoiding waste.
- (nl) mr president, thanks to the montreal protocol, substances that deplete the ozone layer can be abolished quickly.
to close the hole in the ozone layer.
- (nl) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, climate change is one of the main environmental problems, but also one of the most difficult to solve, because it is deeply rooted in economic processes.
the failure of the wto conference in seattle has taught us that the european union must be credible if it is to achieve the global environmental policy it aspires to.
so far, europe has been content to make pretty statements, but without further action, greenhouse gas emissions in the european union are likely to increase by 8% in 2010 instead of decreasing by the same percentage.
these emissions are mainly due to the uncontrolled growth of the transport sector, characterised by an increase in the number of cars, heavy goods vehicles and aircraft capable of travelling more kilometres.
i therefore urge the european commission to take account of this extremely complex issue of the transport sector in the next action programme to combat climate change.
for example, it should impose zero emissions for transport and a 10% reduction for households, industry and energy production, take the necessary measures to limit co2 emissions from heavy goods vehicles, encourage the use of clean vehicles such as hybrid and electric cars and finally lift a european tax on energy and co2 at the request of the 12 or 13 countries that really want it.
we will only be credible if the european union succeeds in turning the greenhouse gas emissions curve downwards.
the greens are of course convinced that nuclear energy is in no way an alternative.
not only in europe but also worldwide, we must focus on renewable energy sources such as wind, solar and biomass.
after only four to six months, a wind turbine already produces a volume of energy greater than its construction and installation costs.
in the case of nuclear energy, it takes ten years for net energy production to cover the cost of building a power station.
i fully agree with them that the problem of climate change must be solved on a global scale.
the fact that countries at a climate conference reach an agreement implies that everything will be done to ensure proper implementation and enforcement.
although the environmental problem must be solved on a global scale, the states retain a large share of individual responsibility.
i fully support the emphasis in the resolution on energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources.
these are measures which have a positive impact on the environment.
but there are also measures to reduce co2 emissions, which, in addition to the positive impacts mentioned above, have harmful consequences for the environment.
in other words, reducing co2 emissions can never be used as an excuse to emit other harmful substances.
this is why all the environmental impacts of a particular form of energy production must be given special attention in the european union's energy policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
the integration of the environmental aspect also applies to transport policy.
the transport sector accounts for 40% of total co2 emissions.
this is unfortunately a reality for the time being; but let us hope that the climate in the european council will change.
switzerland rightly pays great attention to environmental protection.
only in this way can the construction of more and wider motorways in the alpine region and the increase in air pollution by exhaust gases in the valleys be prevented.
the union has put a lot of pressure on a small non-member state, ignoring the democratic decision-making process of that country and giving more space to a mode of transport that has no future when the environmental aspect is taken into account.
in short, this proposal is not yet ready for consideration and has unacceptable consequences for the environment and democracy in switzerland.
i hope that the same strength and energy that characterized beijing will inspire us at the beijing plus 5 conference in june 2000 in new york, so that we can accelerate the implementation.
all 15 states are experiencing serious economic and environmental problems.