this is the reality of multifunctional agriculture, which combines its economic function with that of protecting the environment and rural landscapes, guaranteeing the presence of man throughout the territory.
to this extent, the wto cannot be limited to trade issues, but must also address fundamental issues such as food quality and safety, animal welfare, environmental protection and respect for and sensitivity of consumers.
at a time when popular movements throughout the world are struggling for the complete dismantling of nuclear arsenals, when public opinion is aware of the dangers of a resurgence of antagonisms in this field and is calling for a reduction in military spending and the risk of a nuclear cataclysm to be eliminated forever, the united states is adopting an attitude of extreme aggressiveness which undermines all efforts to stabilize international relations and deliberately jeopardizes the establishment of a climate of peace and security in the world.
as the last-ditch interpreters of the global peace movement, we demand immediate and concrete steps to eliminate nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, to ban all nuclear testing once and for all, to ban the installation of nuclear weapons outside the borders of the states which possess them in accordance with nonproliferation treaties, to withdraw nuclear weapons which are installed or stored in other countries and to ban the export of nuclear waste.
if the enormous sums earmarked for nuclear testing and armaments are redirected to productive investment in economic and social cohesion, education, culture and environmental protection, they can strengthen the factors of reconciliation and peaceful coexistence of peoples and help to strengthen the bonds of reciprocity and cooperation between them on an equal footing.
thirdly, i would also like to stress that these agreements create added value of eur 107 million in these third countries and generate some 18 000 jobs, which means that, while respecting the biological balance of species, the european union's fisheries agreements with these countries have contributed to their sustainable development.
i do so for economic reasons, which have already been mentioned by various speakers, but also, as happened yesterday during the debate on the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco, for reasons of aid to a country rich in natural resources and yet poor because of its political situation and, in particular, the war climate.
these policies should therefore be amended to give priority to setting clear objectives and implementing effective instruments for the creation of sustainable and entitled jobs and for a significant reduction in unemployment.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
- the next item is the report (a5-0062/1999) by mr schwaiger, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament: the eu approach to the wto millennium cycle (com (99) 331 - c5-0155/1999 - 1999/2149 (cos)).
secondly, the establishment of common rules for all the world concerning matters not currently covered or not sufficiently covered by the marrakesh agreement, such as hygiene and sanitation standards, the effects on the environment and health of certain intensive production methods or respect for consumer sensitivities.
we socialists believe that the market contributes to the creation of wealth, but that there must be regulation so that the distribution of this wealth can take place in an equitable manner and in accordance with the sustainable development that we all must enjoy.
we are in favour of the wto and its negotiations being seen as an instrument for creating a fairer society, a more sustainable development, where people are effectively placed at the centre of all decisions.
in this context, we reaffirm the need to respect environmental issues, the need to respect the consumer, the need to respect human and social rights.
secondly, we are in favour of a balanced institutional reform, not only between the community institutions but between them and the member states, and we want this balance to be reflected in the sustainability of this reform.
this objective, of course, concerns such important issues as food security, public services or 'intellectual property', always in favour of a blind liberalization of financial capital and in defiance of the ilo labour standards and the environmental rules adopted at international level, with harmful implications for the cultural identity of the peoples and the development of dozens of countries, especially the poorer countries.
it will always be essential that such regulation be based on the principles of cooperation and development; it includes compliance with internationally agreed social and environmental standards; respect the wishes, interests, particularities and different levels of development of the states concerned; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: it is not the case that certain human activities, such as education and culture, are treated as mere commodities.
we must take advantage of this economic cycle and the declaration to be made under the finnish presidency on the millennium and the new information society to be able to achieve sustainable growth through our creativity and to make the objective of full employment not merely rhetorical but concrete.
it is worth reiterating in terms of content that we continue to fight for issues related to the environment, consumer protection, social rights, human rights, cultural diversity and the multifunctional role of agriculture.
- (pt) mr president, the seattle negotiations have shown a slight political openness to certain positions of the european union on agriculture, particularly as regards environmental concerns, food security and the development of rural communities.
- (pt) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, seven years after rio and two years after kyoto, the climate change issue is now at a critical juncture.
it is true that the hypocrisy of the united states of america has contributed greatly to this situation, as the country that emits the most greenhouse gases and is least likely to ratify the kyoto protocol by 2002. but it is equally true that europe itself has done little to achieve the objectives it set itself.
first, by creating a european greenhouse gas emission reduction programme that supports and finances actions in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy.
a programme which shows that, contrary to what we are led to believe, nuclear energy may be the easiest way, but it is certainly not the right one.
secondly, by providing for financial instruments which make it possible to introduce a co2/energy tax in all the countries of the european union.
thirdly, by launching a major campaign to raise awareness among european public opinion, especially among economic agents, of the urgent need to change daily practices and behaviour in the field of energy consumption and production.
we hope that there will be no more doubts about the climate of mutual understanding and political will between portugal and the people's republic of china; the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted a decision on the future status of the macao special administrative region.
just as it seems inevitable to finally draw up a new trade order - in the context of a globalisation based on progress and solidarity - which respects fundamental political rights, social progress and the environment.
but we have expressly agreed with paragraphs 19 to 27 (competitive economy and employment) and 29 to 34 (environment, public health and the fight against organised crime and drugs).