mr prodi, ladies and gentlemen, the candidates for the commission, the enlargement of the union, the common foreign and security policy, the strengthening of free trade in the world, the opening up of markets, further liberalisation in europe, the competitiveness of the single currency, a vigorous policy on the environment - these are the objectives for which europe needs a very strong and efficient commission, in which you yourself, mr prodi, and the team you have put together will have our confidence.
- (sv) although some of the candidates for the commission have shown themselves to be qualified, aware of the ecological issues and certainly capable of becoming good commissioners, such as mrs margot wallström and mrs michaele schreyer, we cannot support mr prodi's commission.
the reason for our decision is, firstly, the complete lack of ecological and social awareness which is evident from the programme announced by mr prodi himself, and secondly, the fact that this commission includes a number of candidates who have not convinced us of their ability to act towards parliament in a spirit of perfect rectitude, nor of their willingness to apply themselves to it.
of course, consumer organisations, environmental movements and the media must have free access to agricultural production sites, as well as to feed and food industries.
in such an environment, prevention through education is difficult to implement.
in such an environment, people are discouraged and no longer seek out tests and advice.
- (sv) mr president, the idea that humans are influencing nature and changing it in such a way that future generations will no longer have the opportunity to live as we do is an idea that cannot be supported either from a human or an ecological point of view.
we are now in a situation where, i think, more and more people are recognizing that the combination of the demands of the environment and those of the economy, of the environment and the market, is an important part of the solution to the problems we face.
the second point i would like to raise is the one mr lange mentioned, which concerns emissions trading.
i think it would be inappropriate today to rely on fixed percentages when it comes to determining the extent to which an environmental measure should be applied.
i believe we must be prepared to work as quickly and efficiently as possible to do the best we can for the environment.
- (sv) mr president, the issues of climate change are likely to remain for many years to come one of the most difficult environmental challenges we have to face.
what makes the problem so complex is that if we take it seriously it involves major changes in both the energy and transport sectors.
it is also likely that, despite new technologies and energy sources, it will be necessary to reduce the volume of transport and energy consumption as a whole.
the first point is that we must succeed in developing a carbon tax, a tax on greenhouse gases.
i also believe that the research aid granted by the eu in the field of energy should be limited exclusively to renewable energy sources, which is not the case today.
air transport is the sector responsible for the fastest increase in greenhouse gas emissions.
- (sv) mr president, we have here an important motion for a resolution which can serve as a basis for our further work on the climate.
there is growing evidence that climate change will soon be the main environmental problem and the most important challenge facing the world's political authorities.
we disagree with the content of paragraph 15, because we are sceptical about the validity and effectiveness of general environmental taxes.
we are also against point 16. the question of energy efficiency is already dealt with in point 11 of the proposal.
it calls for the development of a directive in this area, which would make it possible to consider an energy efficiency target which is more realistic than that formulated in point 16. as regards the amendments, we support the first proposal put forward by mr bowis, a member of our group, and the second and third proposals put forward by the pse group.
we also want a split vote on the green group's point 5. we agree that we want a directive on renewable energy to be drawn up, but we believe that the european institutions should not decide on targets that would be legally binding on the member states.
finally, i would like to say that i listened to mrs wallström, the environment commissioner, who is still with us in the house this morning.
she said that the market and its forces, free trade and informed consumers could be our best allies in the fight to improve the environment.
i would like to express my agreement on this, including when it comes to taking action to stop climate change.
- (sv) mr president, the accident which has just occurred in japan reminds us once again of the enormous risks involved in nuclear energy.
- (sv) mr president, the recent accident in japan shows that nuclear energy can never be completely safe.
nuclear energy and the processing of nuclear fuel are probably no less safe there than at home.
this is a fact we should bear in mind when we are in the habit of criticizing nuclear energy as it is practised in other countries, while refusing to do so when it is practised in our own countries.
we can never be sure that nuclear energy is totally safe: it is the only thing that is totally safe.
i could not vote in favour of the resolution on climate change and the implementation of the kyoto convention for the following reasons.
the resolution does not mention the climate consequences of an unreasonable phase-out of nuclear power.
it has been calculated that the closure of this facility would result in an annual increase in carbon dioxide emissions of about 3.5 million tonnes.
sweden's share of the total amount of co2 emissions from electricity generation has thus more than doubled.
this unwise strategy adopted by my country has also led sweden to negotiate within the eu an increase in its emissions quota in relation to the commitments made by the union at the kyoto conference, with sweden being allowed to increase its carbon dioxide emissions by 4%.
these are extremely regrettable facts and deserve our full attention, since the eu, following the kyoto conference, has a responsibility to reduce co2 emissions by 8% in total.
the enlargement must not result in companies benefiting from lower wages and a lower level of social protection, nor allow them to evade their tax or environmental responsibilities.
the chinese authorities have recently undertaken a series of reforms in line with the general principles agreed at the 1992 united nations conference on environment and development in rio.
this aid will be aimed in particular at improving the environment and limiting the negative effects of industrial growth and urbanisation, for the benefit of the chinese people.
the eu will provide technical support to develop access to energy, promote energy efficiency and energy savings, facilitate the use of renewable or non-polluting energy sources, and encourage the use of environmentally friendly technologies.
we must see in these facts one sign among others of the vital importance of our cooperation with china, which can lead to an improvement in the environment for our countries and even on a world scale.
we set ourselves a number of common objectives to fight poverty, to establish sustainable pension systems, to guarantee the right to health for all, while having a system that stimulates employment growth - this does not contradict the principle of subsidiarity.
that would not be good for the environment in europe.
it is justified that we should place strict environmental requirements on car manufacturers.
but we must not develop proposals which are harmful to the environment in other respects.
if our decisions have the effect of making the simplest solution the general practice, namely to base the exhaust gas cleaning technique on the use of catalytic vessels which use large quantities of ammonia solution, the system of distribution of this ammonia solution to all the petrol stations in europe will contribute in itself to ruin a good part of the environmental progress achieved.
let us set the environmental standards very high, but let us also give industry the time it needs to develop future solutions which are technically optimal, which are conducive to the preservation of nature in europe and to the environment in the large population centres.
the common view is that this is a better solution for the environment than these continuous delays.
environmental and energy issues must be considered in their context, and energy supply systems must be designed in a balanced and well-thought-out manner.
since almost all energy production and use has negative effects on the environment, energy policy must also be considered as an important chapter of environmental policy.
access to energy is a prerequisite for our prosperity; it is a condition for work and development.
the transformation of energy supply systems must therefore take account of europe's needs for growth and jobs.
it is quite clear that irresponsible approaches to nuclear energy and access to it will seriously damage europe's growth potential and our ability to cope with what i consider to be the most serious ecological threat, namely climate change and increased carbon dioxide emissions.
the rapid dismantling of nuclear power, the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions, the improvement of the environment and the preservation of our prosperity and economic power - all this at once is not possible!
the chichester report is characterised mainly by a global vision which i believe is indispensable in the field of energy and environmental policy.
but i would add this: the common environmental tax for the whole of europe must become a reality!
but the closure of well-functioning nuclear power stations in the territory of the member states is a despicable policy, since it leads to their replacement by energy sources which increase the amount of carbon dioxide emissions, even though power stations which constitute a serious ecological threat to our entire continent remain in operation.
there is no doubt that the present energy supply system is responsible for at least 50% of the environmental problems we feel are serious.
it is therefore of course important that the union now tackles energy policy issues with greater determination.
seven years after the rio conference and the signing of the climate convention, carbon dioxide emissions are still rising, as many speakers have said today.
in my view, only the eu can achieve this, through an active strategy that puts the emphasis on national efforts, on dynamic cooperation, especially with developing countries, helping them to adapt their energy systems to environmental requirements, and on the other hand, by showing that it is really possible to change the course of things without incurring too great a cost, since limiting our dependence on fossil fuels brings many environmental gains.
we must be particularly vigilant in the transport sector, since the emissions from transport are continuing to increase sharply.
unfortunately, we are witnessing a phenomenon whereby when the price of energy falls, thanks to efforts to make it more profitable, the savings thus obtained are swallowed up by what is called a rebound effect, that is to say, demand increases.
a tax on carbon dioxide emissions, offset by a reduction in the tax on labour, would be a considerable step forward.
- (sv) exhaust gases from heavy goods vehicles account for an increasingly large share of carbon dioxide emissions, due to the intensification of transport.
our aim in adopting this report is to reduce the volume of these emissions and to contribute to the cleanliness of the air we breathe.
the implementation of the commitments under the kyoto protocol requires decisions that place stringent requirements on industry, particularly with regard to carbon dioxide emissions.
we are convinced that swedish companies will benefit in the long run from taking the lead in environmental policy.
we have to take account, perhaps more than ever before, of the environment, public health, animal welfare and the multifunctionality - the diversity - of the countryside and agriculture.
i therefore hope that the european commission, in its negotiations with china, will take account of all the social and ecological aspects which the americans are clearly making a mockery of in their negotiations with the chinese.
the wto is often criticized today for having a narrow view of trade, treating it as an end in itself, without seeing the complex relationships between trade, human rights and environmental considerations.
i think, on the contrary, that we would gain nothing from the status quo, and we have everything to gain from a new cycle, since we now have a much better understanding of this complex linkage that i have just mentioned, such as the need to debate globally the issues of development and the environment.
i would remind you of the wise way in which the latest wto report deals with environmental issues.
increased trade can, of course, have a positive impact on the environment, for example through the transfer of environmentally friendly technologies.
but the opposite can also be true, and this is mainly because environmental consequences are not properly taken into account in our economic context.
i think, and this is an important conclusion, that while making the world trade organisation more 'green', we should also strengthen international environmental conventions.
this attitude can lead to a climate of suspicion, stagnation and conflict.
but many members have used their energy to bring up all the problems and concerns that free trade seems to have generated.
i can certainly understand the content of that answer, but the problem of fish in the baltic sea is just one example of the adverse effects on health and the environment of bromine-based flame retardants.
the wto can support environmental work at the global level, for example by integrating fundamental ecological principles such as the precautionary principle.
the preamble to the convention states that in order for the child to achieve "the harmonious development of his personality, he must grow up in the family environment".
it is also a question of really changing the society and economy of these countries so that they are able to cope with the new environment in which they will be integrated.
the rapporteur and the committee on budgets particularly emphasize that the bank's projects must support important objectives, in particular the decisions of the european parliament, for example in the field of the fight against poverty, and defend democracy, human rights and environmental protection.
one of the aspects of this forward-looking report is that it is not only concerned with political decisions but also with the role of civil society in creating an environment in which human rights are deeply and durably democratically anchored.
if we bear in mind the right of children to live with a father and a mother, under the protection of the family environment they need to grow up, it seems that our common duty, as we enter the new millennium, is to be guided, when we work on the organization of our societies, by the needs of children.
- (sv) mr president, this report deals with the development and improvement of international cooperation on the marine environment in the baltic sea.
in 1974, the countries surrounding the baltic sea met to draw up what became known as the helsinki convention, which was designed to protect the marine environment.
the baltic is an inland sea which is experiencing very serious ecological problems.
the north sea and atlantic outlets are narrow, and agricultural, industrial and household waste is high.
this creates a special environment that creates different problems for marine life.
annex iv aims to reduce emissions from ships.
the text concerns in particular the regulation of oil, waste and waste water collection facilities in various ports.
this is particularly the case for the monitoring of waste discharged into the sea.
even where controls are effective, for example by air surveillance, it has proved very difficult to hold the guilty to account and to punish the real ecological crimes committed in the baltic sea.
as the rapporteur has said in his text, and also in this chamber, the changes to annexes iii and iv of the convention on the protection of the marine environment of the baltic sea area have already been adopted and will come into force in one month's time.
fortunately, the changes to the convention are very positive for environmental work.
they aim to reduce emissions of nitrogen and phosphorus, as well as plant protection products from agriculture and emissions from ships and tourist boats.
we know that environmental work and very targeted political decisions will be needed to restore the ecological balance in the baltic sea.
forests are a source of renewable materials, but they are also much more than a source of raw materials.
forests are the preferred habitat for biodiversity, they absorb carbon dioxide, and they are perhaps the most important water and climate regulator on earth.
it is probably true that it is expensive, but the alternative costs to bypassing switzerland are probably considerably higher, and it is also a much worse alternative from the point of view of the environment.
the decline in ozone levels is increasingly blamed.
the first commission document describes the depletion of the ozone layer over scandinavia, greenland and siberia as at its highest level ever.
i would like to draw this point to the attention of those members who have expressed reservations about the need to speed up the disposal of ozone-threatening substances.
i would then like to stress this to those others who say that the costs are too high and that only to achieve the reduction of ozone levels is zero or only a few per cent lower.
the hole in the ozone layer is not an invention - nor is the fact that it is growing!
the adoption of this regulation, together with the amendments approved by the majority of the committee on the environment, therefore offers us a unique opportunity.
i would like to stress that this proposal is not an attempt to prevent changes in the current climate.
some of the substitutes used today to replace the hcfcs, which have been the subject of debate, have consequences for the climate.
i hope that when we vote on wednesday parliament will follow the environment committee's proposal to delete this article altogether.
we know that methyl bromide is one of the worst things for the ozone layer.
new amendments have been tabled in parliament which have not been adopted or debated in the committee on the environment; i've already quoted one of them.
apart from that, i support the adoption of all the amendments approved by the majority of the committee on the environment.
- (sv) mr president, just a few weeks ago we received a new alarming report on the depletion of the ozone layer.
this time, a study shows that the protective ozone layer has reached a worrying record high over scandinavia.
in this environmental issue, we know the cause of the problem.
we know exactly what substances are destroying the ozone layer.
in addition, there are currently good alternatives to most ozone-depleting substances, which are used in various fields.
ozone-destroying substances have a very long-term negative effect.
although international cooperation in this area has been successful under the montreal protocol and emissions have been greatly reduced, the ozone layer will not be repaired until at least around 2040. in the meantime, it is also estimated that the damage, for example in the form of new cancer cases, will increase.
the proposals which have been put forward here have led to stronger measures against ozone-threatening substances such as methyl bromide and hcfcs.
fortunately, there are national and individual declarations within the epp-ed group which put the problem of the environment at the forefront and which have the courage to vote for the fundamental proposals contained in the report.
we can best build sustainable security by linking peoples and nations in a positive mutual dependence, just as the european union has done.
the social democrats now expect the council and the commission, with commissioner patten, to show equal creativity, energy and determination to avoid crises.
- (sv) mr president, madam council representative hassi, madam commissioner, i think most of us were very pleased to hear that, even in the commissioners' questions, one of commissioner wallström's priority areas was the fight against climate change.
i think it is an environmental issue of this kind that can interest most citizens and a wide public, because there is a real concern about the climate change that is occurring.
it is not so much the awareness of climate change that is lacking, but the practical application of measures.
this may not be as strange as it sounds, because climate change is not the only problem in the world to solve.
i am glad that commissioner wallström and council representative hassi have stressed that nuclear energy is not a sustainable energy source.
- (sv) mr president, unfortunately the international solution on how to combat the greenhouse effect is not forthcoming.
the reduction in emissions and the greenhouse effect must now also be reflected in reality and not just in statistics or in the world of conference rooms.
i think we need to use the political will to reduce emissions and to use the renewable energy that actually exists.
greenhouse gases continue to rise above the entire world more than seven years after the climate convention was signed.
i was part of a global energy analysis that was just done and it shows, unfortunately, almost to be stressed, that there will be very good fossil fuels in the near future.
the market cannot measure the environmental consequences involved.
we must propose taxes and we must set standards and rules if we want the existing energy alternatives to have a chance.
the reduction of emissions at national level, concrete plans for reducing emissions in the most important sectors, especially transport, where emissions are increasing rapidly, the introduction of economic instruments, the rapid ratification of the kyoto protocol, an intensified dialogue with japan and the developing countries.
- (sv) mr president, i would like to begin by stressing, as have some previous speakers, the need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and limit climate action.
this resolution is a good one, but after it was developed by the committee on the environment, two problems have emerged.
on the one hand, there is the reference to nuclear energy which has no direct link with the main objective of the resolution.
in my view, it would have been best to remove the nuclear energy lines from the resolution altogether, but as this is not the case, i ask that the liese amendment be allowed to pass.
the resolution also lacks recommendations for general taxes on energy and carbon dioxide.
the majority of the epp-ed group is hesitant about such an eu tax and voted against the proposal on this point in the committee on the environment.
general taxes on industry are a poorly designed instrument for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
to present energy taxes as the most important measure is to strike at empty barrels.
i think we should instead push the eu countries to take responsibility for reducing carbon dioxide emissions.
taxes targeting carbon dioxide emissions should be more effective than general taxes, but other options are also available to individual member states.
i cannot endorse or bow to a principle which limits the autonomy of individual eu countries in tax matters by supporting the proposal for eu energy taxes.
the environment.
the member states of the european union have committed themselves to actively involving women in environmental decision-making.
women's experience and skills remain under-used in environmental action policies.
however, we want additional measures to help to better orient our agricultural policy in the direction of environmental protection, consumer interests and market adaptation.