the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we've thought this through, of course. perhaps mr cohn-bendit is overestimating the importance of a resolution, but with the security council resolution we have a basis to support and, as the president of parliament has already said, we should call on both sides to make peace now, to lay down their arms and to comply with the security council resolution. i would like to say at once that this must be the crux of our resolution. if so, we can support them. we would therefore be cooperating and supporting mr cohn-bendit's motion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the background to my speech is an illegal transport of puppies which was uncovered in austria in early october 2008. since the beginning of october 2008, i have been trying to get speaking time for the one-minute presentations, and i'm glad that it's finally happened. it is interesting that during this period i was able to listen to mr rogalski for the third time. now to the facts: austrian police stopped a van with 137 puppies. the vehicle was seriously defective and the animal passports were forged, as the dogs were not yet of legal age for transport. the journey started in slovakia and ended in spain. this is not an isolated case and it shows once again that in europe, for-profit organisations are consistently criminally circumventing existing animal welfare laws. we need comprehensive controls on animal transport in europe and the threat of penalties for non-compliance. the eu must adopt common european minimum standards for animal welfare, which must be implemented and controlled by all countries. this would also force countries which have been completely inactive in the field of animal welfare to adopt certain standards.
i have to say, madam president, it is a balanced compromise, and i shall support it. i would like to thank all those involved. the dossier was, as we hear in the debate, very emotional, and yet it succeeded in bringing together the various protection objectives which we are pursuing with this legislation. europe has one of the most advanced plant protection legislation in the world, and this is a great achievement. it was important that we find a balance between the objectives of protection pursued, such as health protection, the objectives of the internal market and, of course, environmental protection, but also between the individual objectives of protection. the important thing was that we followed the different principles, like the fact that the whole thing is based on facts and science, not on emotion, and secondly, we're still stuck with the risk-based approach, not the hazard-based approach. this is particularly important for the practicability of the whole legislative work and also for its subsequent implementation. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that, especially now, we are not favouring imports in the implementation, thus putting domestic or intra-european production at a disadvantage. but here the commission still has a great task ahead of it. overall, these principles have been taken into account in a balanced way. that's why we can live with the compromise. as regards the details, it is particularly important to me that the member states should have the necessary flexibility and subsidiarity, particularly in the field of water protection, to be able to respond to their specific circumstances. the netherlands cannot be compared with germany or malta or greece. it is also important to minimise the use of pesticides in natura 2000 sites and in bird sanctuaries. here too, member states have a margin of manoeuvre to implement this appropriately. but overall, it is a compromise that should be shared by all.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to raise a point which has not been discussed in this context today. at the end of the day, we have once again reached a hopefully reasonable compromise in europe. but what did we do on the way there? we must remember the months of discussions, with some of the most extreme accusations from one side to the other and vice versa. all of this has been met with great enthusiasm by the media. all this has led to a media confusion among consumers, who have once again agreed that 'europe is doing everything wrong' and 'europe is going after the citizens instead of the citizens'. now, at the end of the day, we're going to come up with a half-baked solution, a compromise solution, but at least one that will have a lot of support. what will be left of the media? little to nothing!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. you had given us a good message by first pointing out - we had already read about this in the green paper on urban mobility - that we need common european solutions to a problem that almost all european cities have in one form or another, some quite different and some quite similar. we welcomed that at the time, a few months ago, and we welcomed the commission's proposals, which were promised to us. they're not coming. and if there was a message in your statement, i have now written it down as follows: there will be no comprehensive action plan. why not? - why not? if we believe what we hear - and we hear a lot of it in this house and in the institutions of the european union - it is because there is a member state, or perhaps a number of member states, which have frightened us, and unfortunately frightened the commission, on the pretext that subsidiarity could be interfered with here. the european parliament has explicitly stated in its proposals that it does not wish to interfere with subsidiarity. you have now emphasized again that you do not want to present a plan that is suitable for all. but not presenting a plan is not the answer. so if we take this step, you'll keep that promise. the re-election of the commission is not guaranteed by nothing happening and by not offending one or more member states, but by presenting and presenting good things.
since the euro came into force on 1 january 1999, the european currency has proved to be a major factor of stability for the union's economy in many ways. the single currency is first and foremost a motor for european exchange. the abolition of exchange rates in the euro area is a major tangible benefit for citizens and facilitates the mobility of the population within the union. in addition to the obvious benefits, the euro also proved to be an anchor in the financial crisis. only a major currency, shared by many member states and economies, can absorb the dramatic effects of economic downturns. monetary union will enable the international community to use macroeconomic levers and to respond actively to the financial crisis. the euro is also a symbol of european unity and the long journey europeans have already made together. monetary union is the logical next step to economic union and should continue to pave the way for full european integration.
i have to say, madam president, i have a request: when there are solemn meetings, always put a camera in the middle of the seats. it's not always easy for the cameramen to work here. but it is also a problem for members of parliament if there is a camera where you want to work. couldn't you change the seating arrangement if you wanted to have this camera here? otherwise, you should think of a better technical solution.
in writing. - i agree in principle with paolo costa's report on civil aviation. it is necessary that the eu and the us agree on a common line through this agreement. in this overseas partnership, however, it is essential to be real partners, not just partners on paper. criteria must be found to which both 'contracting parties' must adhere. in the event of non-compliance, either by the eu or the us, a revocable version of the agreement is essential.
in writing. - i agree with the report on the prospects for strengthening the dialogue with citizens under the lisbon treaty. i believe that civil dialogue is very important in providing eu citizens with an insight into the activities of their elected representatives. i would like to emphasise the fact that the dialogue between the eu and its citizens should be bilateral. it is not enough to inform the home countries about the implementation of projects, but we must also listen to the individual people and take their opinions seriously.
in writing. - it may sound nice to talk about a public debate on the lisbon treaty in all languages. despite all the deception, people have understood that a treaty that is 95% consistent with the rejected eu constitution is not a columbus egg, even if the eu establishment tries to market it as such. it is also interesting to have this dialogue in all the languages, when we are not even able to ensure that the current presidency of the council has a permanent presence on the internet in the most widely spoken languages of the union, namely english, french and german. the citizens must also feel particularly mocked when the new citizens' initiative provided for in the constitution is praised as a step towards more democracy, whereas referendums are held until the eu's desired result is achieved. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year.
in writing. − as early as 2005, we adopted an eu directive on consumer protection against unfair commercial practices and advertising. but we are still failing to protect the citizen from internet dialling, unwanted advertising calls, rip-off services and the like. fake companies hide behind mailboxes and straw men and changing names. if these companies are caught, they are fined a ridiculously small amount, so that there is no deterrent effect. the penalties, especially in the case of repeat offence, should be drastically increased. it's important that the customer who's been ripped off has a chance to sue for damages, otherwise they're left out in the rain. the proposed changes will improve the situation for consumers, which is why i voted in favour of them.
in writing. − in recent years, the union has consistently raised the limit values, so that a reduction was long overdue. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the pesticide crisis. the accumulation of pesticides that can circumvent limit values remains a concern. we know far too little about the possible interactions between these and the legal requirements are overdue. the effectiveness of documentation and traceability is questionable. the meat scandals of recent years show how easy it is to cheat on labels. the problem is that we impose pesticide requirements on our producers and farmers, but then we import products from countries with lax regulations. the chinese toy episode should be a lesson to us. the proposed regulations are a step in the right direction, which is why i voted in favour of them, but they are far from sufficient.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in principle, the collection of biometric data is certainly one way of making passports and travel documents more resistant to falsification. the new technology will, above all, help us in the fight against organised crime and the flood of illegal immigrants. it is clear to all member states that frontex must now be upgraded both financially and in terms of staff so that it can really fulfil its task effectively and effectively. if there are no internal borders, the external borders must be protected accordingly. however, when hackers boast on the internet about how easily fingerprints can be forged at german registration offices, and point out that when the id card is reduced to the size of a cheque card, the photos are digitally cut, making biometric identification more difficult, doubts can easily arise about this technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank carlos coelho and congratulate him on the report. we would all have been disappointed if the report had not been of this quality, because we are already used to this quality of reporting from several reports. i particularly liked the fact that carlos coelho made it clear from the outset that this report is about the safety of children. i do this by issuing secure passports and also by allowing fingerprints to be taken to verify that the person who is crossing a border is indeed the person the passport says he is. so this is an objective that is aimed at ensuring the safety of children. the fact that there is now a debate on whether fingerprints should be taken at the age of six or at the age of 12 is a matter of technique, not of opinion. i would not have a problem if fingerprints were taken at the age of six, because it is the children and the safety of the children that is at stake. i take it for granted that data protection regulations are being respected. we shouldn't be discussing this. it is a matter for the rule of law to control that. but if we have secure passports and comply with data protection regulations, then the european union has taken a very decisive step forward in the interests of children and against the trafficking and smuggling of children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my experience is probably very similar to that of millions of europeans. commissioner, i came to this parliament in 1999 with a very great enthusiasm, which was not the same as yours, which you continue to show. then i did what so many citizens do. i wanted to know something, and that was: how are decisions made? where does the money go? who's getting it? more and more voters have come to me and said: we don't know how to deal with this eu. i was like that. and then, unfortunately, you find that behind many of the measures there is a deliberate intention to cover up the irresponsibility that we still have institutionally - legislation that is not clearly assigned, etc. i can only encourage you to continue to go much further than the cappato report is already going and to provide this basic information. that would be something. and i say that after ten years!
commissioner, i would like to ask you the following: the eurogroup has done an incredible job in these ten years, and it was particularly in the last crisis that we saw that other countries are also interested in joining the group. is there any commission plan for these countries, who might be added in the future, and are there other interested parties who want to join the euro area because of the proven track record of being in the euro area?
i have only one brief question: is it being considered and do you think it would be sensible to set certain control objectives for these micro-credits, namely to concentrate on the field of fair trade or the field of organic food? or do you think it is relatively immaterial whether these requirements are made?
i would like to ask you, commissioner, is there a safety and security concept in the area of the terrorist threat to nuclear power stations?
do you think that local knowledge and regional regulations should also be a basic prerequisite for these professions to be exercised accordingly?
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am also pleased to note that the czech republic has been a member of the european union for a long time, and that it has been a member of the european union for a long time. it is therefore a special day for non-czech members of parliament to be able to welcome a czech presidency for the first time. as an austrian member of parliament, i must also say that it has not always been very popular in austria to advocate the accession of the czech republic. we are therefore certainly among those who offer special support to the czech presidency and do not want to overestimate the initial difficulties. the first rather one-sided statement on the gaza conflict, or the statement by the president of the republic on allegedly too high social and environmental standards, have already been mentioned. from austria's point of view, we are particularly pained by the sympathetic response to slovakia's plans to reopen bohunice, which would clearly be in breach of existing eu law. the very outstanding philosopher and writer jiří gruša has written a 'handbook for the czech republic and prague'. i can only recommend to all colleagues that they enjoy this extremely humorous reading. there are no written instructions for use in europe. if there is one, any new presidency will be well advised not to reject the support offered to it by the european parliament or the governments of the neighbouring countries.
i have to say, madam president, mr president-in-office, you have a special responsibility. the czech presidency of the council has started off badly, the art presentation is provocative and causes outrage. but the serious effort to take action now, to assume responsibility for the whole of the union, is not something that has been felt only recently. the preparations seem to be going well. your program should focus on the right things. but we shall judge you on the basis of your determination, your personal commitment, your european spirit and your success rate in implementing them. the commission president, barroso, said that the eu would be put to the test in this six-month period. the czech presidency of the council and the czech government are on the european political test bench. we will only pass these tests if we do our best together. i would therefore ask you to stop playing domestic politics against european politics or burdening your presidency with domestic policy issues. the commission has already made it clear to the citizens that it feels, with regard to the gas conflict, gaza, slovakia's action in bohunice and the financial crisis, that the lisbon treaty could make it possible for you to play a more effective role in concert with the other european institutions. the european union is a community of values and a community of law. yes, we have rules! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the common law, common values and common political objectives unite us despite our differences. so i ask you to do the same . do not hide behind ireland, take a step forward, ratify the lisbon treaty before europe day 2009 and during your presidency of the council! we will judge you by your actions, not by what your president says in the czech republic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for this report because it calls for reform in the interests of the safety of children and also for measures to ensure safe passports, so in sum a package that will take us forward in the fight against child trafficking and in ensuring greater safety for children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the catania report is a real pack of crooks. if we follow the report, it does not contain any review of the extent to which fundamental rights were respected in the european union in the period 2004-2008. it is merely a catalogue of demands of the political left in this house. the eu has also been active in the fight against drug trafficking, and has been active in the fight against drug trafficking. these demands, which i have mentioned above and which were adopted by a majority, are strongly rejected by me and by the whole of the epp delegation, and we have therefore voted against this report, and i have voted against it.
in writing. - i vote for the report by mr carlos coelho on security features and biometric data in passports and travel documents. however, it is not sensible to accept a flawed regulation without objection when there are some possibilities for improvement. for example, it is not sustainable for different member states to apply different rules on the age of the child when fingerprints are taken. it is therefore important that, if not always joint, at least more comprehensive measures be introduced, especially in relation to the trafficking of children. finally, i would like to stress that biometric data must not be used for any unfair purpose. a rigorous and recurrent review of data security is therefore essential.
in writing. − when the population of individual eu member states decides to allow homosexual couples to marry, to have civil partnerships or to adopt children, other eu countries must not be forced to do the same. if religious leaders or politicians are not homo-euphoric because of their beliefs, as prescribed by the politically correct mainstream, they should not be condemned or persecuted for that belief. the same applies to the racist stick, which is conveniently used against anyone who points out the wrong developments in the area of asylum and foreigners. instead, an undemocratic backdoor attempt is being made to impose homosexual partnerships on member states - a foretaste of what is to come with the implementation of the lisbon treaty. and anyone who dares to criticize homosexuality or immorality in asylum and coexistence with foreigners should be criminally prosecuted in violation of the human right to freedom of expression . that is why the catania report must be rejected in the strongest possible terms.
in writing. − the eu says it puts human rights and democracy at the heart of its external relations. the house calls on the eu to take account of the credibility of human rights when ratifying treaties. but the eu's credibility is already in tatters - cia overtures, a lack of action against us torture prisons and a zigzagging course in international law, such as the kosovo crisis, have already done that. how can a community which claims to be so fond of democracy deny the results of referendums, repeat votes until the desired result is obtained and impose sanctions on member states for the results of elections? if the eu really cared about respecting its much-quoted community of values, it should have stopped accession negotiations with turkey long ago, at the latest since its war gestures. instead of genuinely promoting international and human rights and common values, it seems that some 15 million euros are currently being thrown away annually for a redundant european fundamental rights agency (fra).
in writing. - i agree with the annual report on facilitating access to eu institutions' documents. there is no question that access to the various documents of the ep, the council and the commission should be facilitated. the citizens of the european union must not feel excluded from the processes and votes of the eu institutions. it is also their right to be informed of everything possible. it would be necessary to examine whether this publication should not be restricted in such a way that the essential points are not lost sight of. firstly, no one wants a flood of data and secondly, the privacy of employees should also be protected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after prime minister topolánek's amusing remarks today, i can say that as an austrian member of parliament i am delighted that both the commission and the czech presidency of the council are represented by an austrian. welcome to the club. but i know your loyalty is to the czech republic, of course. i am not going to go into detail. when i was in a delegation with martin schulz, as chairman of that delegation, just before the unilateral withdrawal from gaza in israel, the then deputy prime minister said: 'don't interfere, everything will work out well!' others like former foreign minister josip elin have said: this will lead to chaos. and so it was and so it is. a unilateral withdrawal without negotiations, without a negotiating partner, makes no sense! we were also not well advised, however, not to even talk to the moderate representatives of hamas - who may not have been hamas members at all, but who were nominated by hamas in the joint government. we have helped to destroy this common government by our attitude! i know some of you wanted to talk, but you weren't allowed to. that was a mistake, too. we need to talk! i do not like hamas, on the one hand because it is a terrorist organization and on the other because it has fundamentalist views. but it's not about sympathy or dissimpathy. it's about solutions! we must therefore return to dialogue and dialogue, as many colleagues have said today. and there must be a way for the people of gaza to live a half-decent life! why do they vote for hamas? because they see it as their one and only chance at survival! and we have to change that. we must also give these people an economic basis for life, we must end the boycott and the isolation. that is the only real condition. the principle of proportionality is not applicable, as my esteemed and dear colleague elmar brok has said. yes, it does! the principle of proportionality applies in both private and international law. if you violate that, you violate international law. and we really cannot accept that in this house! (applause from the centre)
mr president, i would just like to ask whether we will still be having a debate on gas today or whether it has been deleted from the agenda. we are waiting here. there is not only a middle east debate but also one on gas on the agenda. has it been deleted from the agenda?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not my group is calling for the establishment of a temporary committee under article 175 to answer many of these questions, which mr saryusz-wolski has also mentioned, namely that we should draw the conclusions together with the commission and, of course, the council by the may part-session, and hopefully we can draw the conclusions together then. the talks we have had with the representatives of gazprom and naftogaz, respectively russia and ukraine, confirm our impression that both are showing a lack of responsibility. i can confirm once again what commissioner piebalgs said: at the moment both are not responsible and are responsible partners of the european union. there must be consequences. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have known for some time that ukraine has refused to build the measuring stations it promised. it has not used the money provided by the european union. and we didn't react. we have also known for at least two months that the agreement envisaged at the beginning of october was not reached until 1 november. i mean, december 18th was maybe a little late. the commission should have done a little more to prepare for the eventuality of a crisis and to tell the member states what is possible. there was certainly a lot of solidarity. but i would have expected that the possibility of such a negative development had already been foreseen here. but it's not about blaming - that's not my intention - it's about drawing the consequences, being better prepared for the next time, or, more importantly, preventing a situation like this from happening again. i must also say, commissioner, that we have perhaps been talking and discussing a little too much - particularly in the gas sector, as you know very well - about liberalisation and the market. it would have been useless, and it is useless now. we have always pointed out that the gas sector is different, it is politically infected, one could even say politically determined. and it is no use if we make gas liberalisation the paramount principle and on the other hand have ukraine and russia playing politics. we must have a strong common thread of conversation. this must be expressed in a stronger way. i agree with much of what has been said here. we need more pipelines. we agree that nabucco is a very important pipeline. you yourself have mentioned the sahara gas pipeline, which we must consider. it won't work so fast, but the signals must be set! we need a lot more interconnectors and connections between each other. but that doesn't happen by itself. you can't believe the market will do that! he can't do it because he has no interest in doing it. these are investments which are not immediately profitable but are made in order to have a reserve. the same applies, of course, to gas reserves! it is absolutely unacceptable that many countries have either little or no gas reserves or even refuse to report gas reserves to the commission. we must act together. despite all the criticism of the details, this parliament and the commission really need to bring some member states to their senses and call for a common european energy policy at last. i agree with mr saryusz-wolski on this, and we have also jointly called for this. and we have received far too little support from the council - or rather from the member states. if we want to do that, then i would really ask you to work out a common strategy here by may, by our last meeting. because it is impossible for this parliament to go on holiday or to go to the polls without us actually drawing the consequences of these tragic events - hopefully together.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. a community can only work together positively if everyone abides by the laws and regulations. it is the farmers and ranchers who give the highest priority to ensuring that animals are transported in such a way that after slaughter, the best meat is available to our consumers with the least possible stress. the black sheep must be exposed because these excesses are unacceptable and bring a whole sector of the economy into disrepute. we must reduce the transport of live animals for slaughter. i hope that we are finally arriving at comprehensible situations and that there is also a scientific basis. i still ask, commissioner, that imports from third countries be treated and punished in the same way as animal transport within the eu if they do not comply with the rules.
in writing. - i agree with the report by teresa riera madurell on the implementation of the equal treatment directive. i think it is high time that women were not only treated as equal to men, but that they were treated as equal to men. equal opportunities in access to employment and in everyday life are still far from being achieved. the gender income gap is closing very slowly in some member states and opening up again in others. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
i have to say, madam president, the meat scandal in ireland has made waves throughout europe, including in austria, where the bizarre result has been that irish meat has been sold as tyrolean bacon. in my view, the only solution to this eu-wide problem is a declaration obligation for fresh meat and meat products, which includes: the place of origin and the duration of the transport of the animal until slaughter and sale of the meat, and if the meat comes from third countries, the precise indication of the country of origin. in addition, these things must finally be controlled by the european union through controllers. in order to make this a reality, i appeal to the council, the commission and to you, ladies and gentlemen: let us not allow european consumers to be deceived in this way any longer!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to know how the customs quota, which ensures the competitiveness of the european fermentation industry, will be secured by the commerce dg in the future in the doha round. the tariff quota plays a very special role in maintaining the international competitiveness of the fermentation industry. the second question is: how will you react to the steel clause which the us congress has now passed, namely the ban on eu steel in america?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, what would you do to speed up the opening of the markets in china and india? the most important thing is that we can export our products there. many european companies have invested in china, built factories or bought up businesses there. that is why the opening up of the market is actually a top priority. how do you see - also in cooperation with commissioner kovács - the possibility of introducing tax incentives for the textile industry, such as shorter depreciation periods, in order to increase the creditworthiness of firms? this will of course also lead to job security. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope that we all have a clear list of priorities: energy efficiency, energy saving and renewable energy. we are not going to be able to avoid worrying about gas supplies for many years to come. what lessons can we learn from the crisis between ukraine and russia, or from the crisis that has arisen from this dispute? i am sorry to say this, commissioner, but i think that next time we will be just as unprepared or not much better prepared. the crisis is not over. i have heard little about the fact that a strategy has actually been developed and conclusions drawn from this dispute between ukraine and russia. if there are some in this house who think we should conclude bilateral treaties with ukraine, it should be pointed out that ukraine is at least partly to blame for the situation we have had recently, and i do not want to become dependent on disputes between mr yushchenko and mrs timoshenko or mr yanukovych or anyone else. it is clear that ukraine would prefer to do this, just as turkey did in the case of nabucco, which i will come back to later, to buy gas from russia and sell it to us, of course, at a premium. so if we want the gas to be as unsafe but more expensive, then we make a bilateral agreement. if we want a real solution, we must make a trilateral agreement, in which we take russia as the supplier, ukraine as the transit country and ourselves on board and make an agreement here, particularly on transit and infrastructure. i have not heard anything from the commission on this or what alternative proposals the commission has. now for the infrastructure. if i take the eastern dimension, there are essentially three pipelines under discussion: northstream, southstream and nabucco. northstream is a northern supply line. it solves the transit problem, but it does not reduce dependence on russia. southstream may solve a transit problem, but it does not reduce dependence on russia. and if you look at the cost, southstream is a lot more expensive than nabucco, at least that's what a lot of studies show. so nabucco would have to be built up massively. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not saying that the commission should be involved in the negotiations. it's a sign of our weakness. we must act quickly, not only on azerbaijan or turkmenistan - we shall discuss this shortly - but also on iraq. the fact that the gas is simply blown up and blown away and that no thought is given to how to get the gas into the nabucco pipeline is a real mistake. i ask you, commissioner, to negotiate with turkey quickly and clearly so that we can also get turkey's agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is not a sign of solidarity on the part of cyprus to say that this chapter should not be negotiated at all, because then we would of course have difficulties with turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, i cannot agree with the laperrouze report either, because it is too one-sided. the only thing that bothers me about this whole debate is that we now have a new development in france: less nuclear waste. but if you look closely, this nuclear waste has higher levels of radioactivity. the problem, particularly as regards waste, cannot be solved in this way. we need to put a lot more energy and a lot more ingenuity into this if we are to solve the waste and disposal problem.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. investments are needed today. we are on the verge of an energy crisis, a financial crisis. we should try to make investments as fast and as well as possible. that is why we can say yes to the construction of pipelines and lng-powered vessels. it is a matter of building them as quickly as possible, and then we will have jobs and, consequently, full employment in europe. the pipelines should not be in competition with each other, but the construction of each pipeline puts us in a win-win situation, just like the construction of lng terminals. this is an important question for the future. above all, we should invest in energy efficiency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if we could provide each citizen with a tax-deductible allowance of eur 10 000 per year, then investments in energy efficiency and renewable energy could start immediately. in the case of renewable energy in particular, progressive depreciation, i.e. the immediate recognition of costs in the balance sheets, would be an essential approach. if we were to give a three-year deadline here, that would be very successful for all of us. we could have a better handle on employment and energy. the commissioner kovács is here called upon to take the initiative. the nuclear industry is of course also a very important aspect of this programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of nuclear power stations is maintained at the highest level. we cannot be ambitious enough here, we simply need to have confidence in the european union, that appropriate steps are being taken, that safety research is being intensified and that there are legally binding requirements so that dangerous nuclear power stations can be taken off the grid immediately by judicial or regulatory decision. the european people have this right to be safe here, to go into a future where they are not threatened by energy production but can sleep peacefully and safely. the commission can make a major contribution here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, understandably, the prospect of a well-paid job has a strong appeal worldwide. especially in bad economic times, the shadow economy grows, which of course leads many people to risk their lives in search of the land of the smart monkeys. it is important to make it clear that illegal work will no longer be tolerated. the report on fundamental rights, which we have just been discussing, raises a number of problems in this connection. it signals that breaches of eu entry rules are rewarded by giving immigrants more protection than european peoples whose identity and social peace are threatened by mass immigration. in future, if every illegal immigrant is to be defined as a person without a valid work document, illegal immigration will be downplayed. it must be remembered, however, that migrants without a residence permit must eventually be deported. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i have to say, madam president, the most important result of this report is that the employer is now being called upon to take punitive action, not just the illegally employed third-country national. you have to imagine - and this is a crime - that these people are exploited even in a progressive alliance like europe, that someone deserves good from them, that they are not entitled to benefits, whether it be health or retirement, and that they live in constant fear of being caught and sent back to their home countries. so another point, which is very important to me, is the possibility of sanctions being imposed in future against employers who exploit third-country nationals who are there illegally. i think that fines, the cost of repatriation, exclusion from public subsidies or aid, and even temporary or permanent closure of the plant are absolutely necessary to change things. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. a europe in which people are exploited by others is not yet a social europe! i think this directive is a good step in that direction. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done. but it must not be the last step!
in writing. - i vote against the report by mr queiró on the future of general and business aviation. it is certainly true that the number of private and business air travel has increased rapidly and that the environmental impact has increased. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the development of the community's air transport policy. we must find alternatives to prevent the increase in the number of flights and to limit pollution.
in writing. − the gas crisis we have just overcome has once again made it clear how important it is to have a secure, reliable and affordable supply of energy to the eu. the energy debate is concerned by the sudden promotion of nuclear power as 'climate-friendly' and the sudden reactivation of scrap reactors, which are worth millions of dollars in subsidies. the latter is also likely to be a consequence of the eu's oversleeping on the gas dispute and leaving eastern member states in the lurch. that should be a lesson in the future. the need to reduce energy consumption whether the mandatory regulation of energy-saving lamps is suitable for this is questioned by critics and to push alternative forms of energy. but as long as our budgetary emphasis is on nuclear power, this will never happen and new energy technologies will have to be marginalised. as important as considerations of securing the eu's energy supply are, they must not end up in promoting turkey's accession on the grounds of energy policy considerations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by anna záborská on the elimination of discrimination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment is applied in all member states. on the one hand, men must be more involved in housework and childcare, and on the other hand women must be able to pursue their occupation as a matter of course. however, it is important to keep in mind the child's welfare and to provide appropriate and affordable care.
in writing. - instead of quotas, which are all too easy to envy and dislike, it would be more effective to support women in their educational choices and career planning from an early age, in order to break the concentration on women's occupations. and if a woman prefers the social security of the team or the family to a lonely and stressful managerial position, this is also acceptable. it is long overdue to finally impose equal pay for equal work. all other considerations of paternity or parental leave fail to take account of the financial reality. single parents are particularly at risk of poverty, and society needs to show more solidarity in this area. another problem is that women's work such as housework, childcare and care work is still often considered as 'non-work'. this is where you start. if we want the survival of children and families, we must have family-friendly working hours - but this is precisely where the eu is working towards. it is not enough to call for solidarity between generations, it must be lived. today's report seems to be a step in the right direction, which is why i voted for it.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs roberta angelilli on the fight against the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. today, more than ever, it is important that children receive every conceivable protection for their development and integrity. with both parents usually working, grandparents missing as caregivers, and the internet often the only pastime, the extent of the risk cannot be denied.
in writing. − while the european parliament is discussing how to better protect children, developments in the islamic world are reversing. if the highest cleric in saudi arabia calls 10- or 12-year-old girls 'capable of marriage' and demands a right to child marriage, then this will also have an impact on europe because of islamic immigrants. this is where you arm yourself. our children must be protected to the fullest. since child molesters have a high recidivism rate, we need to establish an eu-wide file of potential sex offenders, paedophiles and relevant behavioural offenders. strengthen the fight against violence against and abuse of children in all its forms and increase the penalties for sexual contact with children and possession of child pornography. i voted for the angelilli report because it improves the protection of our children.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join all those who want to make europe a humanitarian duty, especially in supporting the obviously denounced persons for whom there were no concrete suspicions and there are. these are classic asylum cases. but i would like to ask - and i would like to emphasize this very strongly - no national unilateral action! europe must learn to speak with one voice and then act with one position. we should not forget that the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the careful handling of refugees must be a priority. we are all used to the fact that education is compulsory for our citizens. you should start by giving the people who were stranded here a proper education. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that should be a priority. perhaps we could put a preparatory measure in the budget to create training opportunities for these people who are desperate to come to europe and to give them a foundation so that they can make a name for themselves in their home countries and there too actively promote democracy and freedom.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened to this debate with great attention and, unlike some of the speakers of the group of the european people's party, have remained here from beginning to end. i have noticed that more than half of this debate was devoted to italian domestic policy. this is a legitimate concern, but i would suggest that this debate should be held first and foremost in rome and not here in the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in almost no statements - very few - was it pointed out that this is not just about the issue of asylum seekers and asylum seekers, people who want to be economic migrants in this common europe, but that it is also very much about finally putting a stop to organized crime. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the threat of a possible invasion of the islands.
i welcome the european union's humanitarian commitment to help the people of gaza who are suffering. i also welcome the fact that we condemn israel's probably disproportionate reaction and rightly point out that this is not a way of securing peace, but on the contrary, of jeopardizing it. but we should also take the time, on the part of the european union, to point out that there is illegal violence from the gaza strip which has a direct and deadly impact on the inhabitants of israel. i would be glad if we as the european union could show a certain balance in our reaction in this area too!
the dangers of the internet are changing dangers, and we have seen the internet go from version 1.0 to version 2.0, so to speak. so what this basically means is that everything has become much more interactive. there have been cases of young people being driven to suicide by such web platforms and communities. now the question is, do you think this development is good or bad on the whole? is it becoming more dangerous or less dangerous? and if it becomes more dangerous, what specifically does the commission plan to do with regard to this internet change?
the point is to spend these 55 million euros properly. can you imagine that we would ask small and medium-sized companies in particular to make better programmes, that we would give young people a rating so that they can decide whether the programme is interesting to them or not, and that we would at least announce an age limit, as in the case of films, so that we could see what content is desirable, and that there would also be an age limit? can you imagine distributing the programming money like eurostars?
the european parliament has taken its relations with latin america to a new level in recent years, since we now have joint relations between the european parliament and virtually all the other latin american parliaments, including the andean parliament, through eurolat. is this forced pragmatic return to bilateralism really the right way forward, or should we not try to intensify the dialogue with latin america as a whole and to take account of certain needs only in the context of specific arrangements?
it seems that the list of terrorists was also based on information that is not always completely accurate. is there any plan to revise or update the eu list of terrorists in general, in connection with the removal of the people's mujahideen from that list?
how does the commission intend to prevent the fragile icelandic economy and financial system from threatening or destabilizing the stability of the euro in the event of iceland joining the eu or the eurozone?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is actually common in europe that everyone has to go to a compulsory school. compulsory schooling means that you simply have to become familiar with the customs and knowledge of the country in which you live in order to live there. the compulsory schooling provides, among other things, the national language and any other languages, it provides a basis for vocational training, it shows where the culture of the country has developed and where it will go. you learn about history. the compulsory school system, as we know it, also serves to promote good coexistence. when you live in a country, it is clear that you can and must understand the language well. this is the purpose of a good compulsory education system. i would like to say that many problems in europe could be solved if we implemented compulsory education for all those living in a country in a similarly efficient way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur, who has really tried to do the best he can for all of us. agriculture is particularly affected by climate change because it is produced in the open air. think of drought and desertification, as we see in southern italy, for example, or other extreme weather events, such as unexpected showers of rain and hail or floods, which often affect the livelihood of our farmers. agriculture is often portrayed as a major contributor to climate change. about 10% of global greenhouse gases are produced by agriculture, but most of these are natural gases such as methane. i believe that agriculture is taking a leading role in the fight against climate change. i'd like to document here, based on a study from austria in 2008, the following: agriculture, through crops such as grass, corn, grains and soil, uses and traps far more greenhouse gases than it produces. according to the 2008 study, the total annual emissions from agriculture and forestry of approximately 8 million tonnes of co2 equivalent are offset by a capture effect of approximately 58 million tonnes of co2 equivalent. this shows that agriculture cannot be seen as a saver of the environment. on the contrary, i have one more number: since 1990, agriculture in austria has reduced co2 emissions by 1.3 million tonnes. the energy sector is another important contribution of agriculture to combating climate change. for example, in austria, agriculture consumes about 2.2% of the energy produced. the share of renewable energy is 23%, again with a large share of agriculture. in conclusion, i would like to say this. great value must be... (the president cut the speaker off)
europe and the world are facing major challenges. the crisis in the capital markets is not the only pressing problem. we must also set the course for sustainable climate action as soon as possible. a large economic and political community such as the european union can establish itself as a leading partner in the fight against climate change. the first step has already been taken the union has agreed binding climate targets and, with the adoption of the climate package in december 2008, has launched many meaningful climate action measures. the first priority must now be to conclude the international agreement in copenhagen. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. rather, more investment and research efforts should be made in green technology. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area.
i have to say, madam president, i asked at the last formal sitting to make it easier to use the camera by leaving a seat free. today, however, the camera was not with me, but with general morillon and then with mr grosch. perhaps we could make it possible for both the cameraman's work and ours to be done.
in writing. - i support the report by mr claudio fava on sanctions against those who employ thirdcountry nationals without legal residence. the employment of illegal immigrants must be controlled, both to protect them from exploitation and to avoid damaging the economy of their own country. the most important aspect is not to punish illegally employed thirdcountry nationals but to punish employers who are in a much stronger position.
i have to say, madam president, we are discussing kosovo today on the basis of a very detailed report by mr joost lagendijk, who is rapporteur, accompanied, of course, by statements from the commission and the council. the rapporteur has no official speaking time in this case. i think that's a disaster. if the rapporteur were to do without and present only the own-initiative report on monday evening, he would have four minutes. i don't think that's fair, you know? i therefore ask the bureau to consider whether someone who has been working for months as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs should not also be given an official speaking time. now, in solidarity with him, my colleague gisela kallenbach has given him her minute as a green member of parliament. perhaps it would be possible, madam president, if it were in your power, to give mrs kallenbach a minute to catch the eye. i would ask you to give this a serious thought. we'll have to find another arrangement.
i have to say, madam president, mr joost lagendijk is in the same situation as kosovo, he exists but is not recognised by everyone as rapporteur, although he is de facto so. i would like to thank him very much for his report, as does my colleague mr tabajdi. of course, we are not yet at the stage of recognition of kosovo that some people in kosovo would like. it has also been - and we must admit this - a painful situation for serbia. we should not add fuel to the fire, but we should try to ensure that development proceeds in a peaceful process. i am very glad that the serbian authorities, despite some harsh words at the beginning, have tried to legalise and neutralise the matter, so that the eulex mission has had a chance. i ask all those who are against the eulex mission what would be the situation of the serbs and other minorities in the country if there were no eulex mission? it is absurd to reject the eulex mission on the grounds that it is the serbian minority or serbia. i think it is quite absurd that someone in this parliament should oppose the eulex mission, which even supports serbia. there are still some open questions, however. that's right, you're right. the political leaders in kosovo must also make an effort to put things into practice. the implementation of the ahtisaari plan in all its aspects is one of our main tasks and demands, and we shall be voting on this resolution tomorrow. the last point: we should promote the integration of the whole region. of course, all countries have to do their homework. but the more serbia progresses in the process of integration, the more macedonia progresses in the process of integration, the sooner it is also possible for us to resolve this kosovo issue and the related open questions. only the integration of all the countries in the region will create the conditions for kosovo to develop peacefully.
i would be interested to know whether there is an initiative in ecofin and by commissioner kovács to initiate a progressive tax write-off across europe for energy projects that are now on the horizon, such as nabucco or the construction of new power stations, or on the other hand to provide exemptions to create incentives and to promote these strategic initiatives accordingly.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for his efforts to find a workable compromise at first reading. it has also succeeded in reconciling consumer protection and food safety with the necessary protection of intellectual property. farmers must be able to trust that the feed they feed contains what is stated on the label. black sheep in the feed industry have caused great economic damage in agriculture and far beyond. thank you again, count.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have two motions which are unlikely to win a large majority in this house. that is why i support this motion. mr president, if you agree, we also ask that the thijs berman report be postponed. if this motion is not accepted because it is too late, i should like to say that we will ask tomorrow to postpone the vote on this report. thank you, sir.
i have to say, madam president, the nationalists, the narrow-minded ones in this house, do they really believe that the risks and problems of the world can be solved by individual nations alone? mr allister is a typical example of this. do you really think you can fight terrorism in the world by relying on your national defense alone? do you really think that the problems of energy security can be solved if each one of us tackles them on his own? that's a concept from the day before yesterday! the treaty of lisbon, which is so often criticised, would have the great advantage of enabling us to work together a little more on energy policy and the common foreign and security policy, for example, in order to be able to deal effectively with the dangers and risks of the world. the new american administration, obama, is glad that this common european policy exists, because america has such a partner to tackle a number of these problems. and russia has - as is evident from the frequent presence of russian representatives in this house - also come to understand that the old concept of always talking to individual countries and then playing countries off against each other simply doesn't work anymore. russia has understood that it must talk with the european union if it wants to find common solutions, for example on the issue of energy security. this is something which has been repeatedly mentioned in the report by mr saryusz-wolski. how can we try to solve these problems together, for example the question of energy security? i am very pleased that the high commissioner, together with a staff member, will be doing even more in the future, because this will enable us to show our citizens how the common foreign and security policy takes account of their specific interests and how we want to prevent people from freezing in europe again in the future. that is the point, and that is not what a nationalist foreign policy is about, but a common foreign and security policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the threat scenarios, as we all know, are constantly changing. what is also changing is the treaty and thus the possibilities for a european security and defence policy. what remains the same, however, is the desire of the people for security and stability, the desire for a strong union and also the desire for disarmament, particularly in the nuclear field. with these three reports we are discussing today, the european parliament is sending a very strong signal about how we are going to achieve these objectives and ensure security: the first is the report on the common foreign and security policy, which focuses on security in the balkans, stability in africa and peace in palestine. secondly, the report on cooperation with nato, which clearly emphasizes closer cooperation and better coordination between the union and nato. the third report focuses on the further development of the european security and defence policy with the aim of achieving greater efficiency and better coordination in defence spending and achieving strategic autonomy for the union as a whole, while at the same time relieving our member states of the burden. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this also means that the military can cooperate optimally between states, that police and military can work together, or that permanent military structures are created and an operational headquarters or a council of defence ministers is set up. i am convinced that this is a crucial opportunity to make our union a political union, to build a security union which gives citizens what they expect from the union: security, stability and lasting peace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. two suggestions: the treaty of lisbon has been the subject of much discussion today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also to be hoped that the irish people - if they have to vote again - will be given a fair chance and that they will not be manipulated in such a way that the rules that have been in place so far, whereby yes and no have an equal chance to appear in public, are undermined and then celebrated as a victory for democracy - or for what? the second point is that, of course, there is a growing self-praise in relation to the forthcoming elections. i would like to encourage an examination of how this house has dealt with the problems of the world financial crisis in concrete terms over the years and who voted how. because then you'll find out that the people who are now posing as firefighters were mostly arsonists.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i do not want to go into the legal basis, but the basis of life. the small and mediumsized enterprises play a very special role here. in particular, in times of financial crisis, creditworthiness is essential to enable these firms to obtain microcredit. i would like to stress that the microcredit instrument has proved to be very effective worldwide and that we should consider how we can achieve corresponding trade facilitation for the affected families in these areas, particularly in the context of the wto round, which hopefully will be concluded soon. in the end, wealth is created where you produce something, where you can live off it and feed your family. if you can sell something, you're guaranteed prosperity. i hope that the development policy is going in the right direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. lambert van nistelrooy once said that it was a question of defining the 'fifth freedom'. the 'fifth freedom' is simply the freedom of researchers, and researchers cannot be bound to regional, national or international levels. it is simply about creating the network and the legal framework to ensure that researchers deliver the performance that society expects them to deliver. this is not just about research at universities, academic research or industry, but also, and especially, research in small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we presented the energy club here last year - vice-president onesta was there - where there was a great deal of enthusiasm from the scientific community and from those in charge that there are inventions that can be of great benefit to us all. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european research area, the establishment of a european research area, and the establishment of a european research area. the commission's initiative is therefore particularly welcome here, because the organization of such projects naturally strengthens international possibilities. international cooperation is becoming increasingly important for us in europe, as well as for our partners. finally, we have developed here in europe the most commercially viable area in the world, and 500 million citizens in europe have the right to have the research results processed as quickly and efficiently as possible. thank you, sir.
mr president, i would ask that you leave the heating on until the end of the sitting because it is too cold in the house.
in writing. when we talk about health, we usually refer to physical well-being. however, mental illness can also make life difficult for those affected and has a wide-ranging negative impact on society. the parliament's initiative to improve mental health education is therefore a very positive step. the management of mental disorders should be discussed more widely among the population, but also methods of preventing mental illness should be made available to the general public. the workplace environment is particularly important in this context. since working people spend a lot of time at their workplace and are exposed to stress related to their work, it is important to promote mental health there. only motivated and balanced workers are able to meet the demands placed on them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. overall, parliament's recognition of mental disorders is a sign of modern health care and offers a positive long-term perspective for many people affected.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the last time there was a debate on this subject during a visit by a head of government or a head of state, the president of this house intervened massively. at that time, it was a matter of concern to him, namely the treaty of lisbon. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do you know what this is? this is not democracy, this is arbitrariness! i call for appropriate action to be taken.
in writing. − the prospect of work in europe is attractive to third country nationals for human reasons. in times of crisis, however, special attention must be paid to who gets the shortage of jobs, so as not to create social discord. i therefore think it is important to impose sanctions on employers who do not comply with the rules. illegal work cannot be tolerated in these troubled times and we must start with those we have on the ground and wherever sanctions apply. in this sense, this report is an attempt to deal more with this problem, because it is not likely that the flow of people will be reduced, especially in the crisis.
in writing. the projects that the newly formed union for the mediterranean has set itself sound quite good: solar plan, cooperation in disaster prevention, joint initiatives to clean up the mediterranean and new port and motorway projects. but paper is known to be patient. whether this will be implemented is questionable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and unless the participating countries see a real possibility of realisation, they will certainly sacrifice good bilateral relations which do not exist for a vague project. i do not believe that the new union for the mediterranean will be more successful than its predecessor, so i voted against the report.
in writing. − in all the years since its creation, the eu has still not become truly citizen-centred. it simply assumes that all citizens use the internet and can easily find their way around the eu. but this is not the case, because these are often only clear to insiders and not always understandable in all languages. in addition, many countries have a strong tradition of print media, which are important for the impartial information of citizens. the eu has repeatedly stressed the importance of information policy, but this would create an information gap. on the one hand, quality journals would suffer massive losses if the compulsory publication of the official journal of the european union were to be eliminated, and on the other hand, all those who are not up to date with modern technology would be disadvantaged. i have voted against the dahl report on this point.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i regret that it is not possible to vote tomorrow because tomorrow several roma representatives will be there because they thought this vote was tomorrow. if it is absolutely impossible, then we will of course have to vote on wednesday, but i would like to stress again that in view of the roma representatives who will be here, it should be possible, with the agreement of the political groups, to make an exception here.
the socialist group has tabled a number of amendments. the commission is not i can make it very short. the situation in darfur is now very, very critical and is becoming even more dramatic, particularly with the expulsion of the various aid organizations. that is why we prefer this now. i'm asking for backup. thank you, sir.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out a particular stain in this house, the pension fund. according to the latest reports in the magazine stern, at least 76 german members of parliament were members of this fund. but that only applies to the list of associations, not to the fund. i hereby ask you, mr pöttering, as president of parliament, to forward the complete list of funds to the german administration, because under the relevant rules in your country, if there were double payments, there would be automatic suspicion of serious fraud. the german authorities have a right to know that from you. we also have a right to know the deficit of this fund. there is a certain amount of secrecy and there is a risk that at the end of the legislature, at the expense of the taxpayer, many millions of people who have been speculating will be thrown out again. this can't be!
i have to say, madam president, we are not discussing this, but we are discussing the report by mr kósáné kovács on the roma problem. i would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to this, since we are in a very difficult situation at the moment. we have had some incidents in hungary, but this is not limited to hungary, where the economic crisis and social problems may lead to increased attacks on roma. that is something we should particularly condemn. several roma people - also from austria - have approached me and asked me to raise this issue, as fear is once again taking hold in this roma community in europe. i would also urge the commission to pay close attention to the situation and to do everything possible to ensure that roma or other minorities, but especially roma, do not have to fear europe again. that should no longer be the case today!
i have to say, madam president, the financial crisis is rightly mentioned, but it is wrongly said that the european union has no money in the budget to finance the necessary measures to combat it. we have 144 billion in the annual budget, 5 billion has been somehow pulled out of it. my specific proposal is: let us make 50 billion out of these 5 billion without increasing the budget. how's that? the administrative part of the budget: if we take into account all the administrative costs of the european union, hidden in the operational programmes, we arrive at 15 billion. i say we could do it with 5 billion. then we have 10 billion left to fight the financial crisis, and then we do what we always ask of everyone else, which is to have their programs and their activities independently audited. i am convinced that if the concrete policies of the present european union were finally examined, we could easily save another 30 billion a year without losing sight of the objectives. there are also some small things in this house. we have a budget of 1.5 billion. if the meetings were to start on time, if we were to work efficiently, we would have 700 million in it, and the remaining 300 million we would get from the council, which is working at least as wastefully as this parliament.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - thank you, madam president. at present, relocating the seat of a company involves administrative hurdles, costs and social consequences and does not provide the necessary legal certainty for shareholders, creditors or employees. the importance of a 14th directive was already highlighted in a public consultation in 2004. i would therefore ask the commission to submit a legislative proposal to this effect as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the mobility of companies and to avoid leaving the question of co-determination in the relocation of the seat to the european court of justice. the future 14th directive must not allow the escape from strong systems of participation. under no circumstances may existing rights be restricted. in order to ensure the coherence and substance of the procedures for employee participation, reference should be made to the european works council directive, the 10th directive and the directive on information and consultation. timely information and relocation only after a relocation plan has been drawn up is absolutely necessary.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has presented a proposal for european private enterprise under the small business act, which has serious weaknesses. the commission proposal did not take account of the interests of creditors such as workers and consumers or small suppliers. to name a few of these provisions: the new rules provided for a minimum capital of one euro, inadequate registration procedures, no requirement to carry on crossborder activities and the separation of articles of association, registered office and place of business. the latter would have led to a circumvention of worker participation. each new directive in european company law should contribute to achieving the objective of harmonising workers' rights and the idea of the european standard of co-determination, based on the new eu treaty of reform, including the charter of fundamental rights. the rights of workers are fundamental to a social europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. we all know that the prosperity of the european union depends crucially on our ability to harness the growth and innovation potential of smes. the small and mediumsized enterprises also play a crucial role in the management of the crisis. we must therefore relieve them of the burden and support them, in accordance with the motto: fewer rules can mean much more for smes. as president of the sme intergroup, i also make it very clear that the small business act is only a declaration of intent by the heads of state and government. the smes are not helped by declarations of intent alone, and that is why we are very clear in our demand that the principle of priority for smes should be the guiding principle of national and european legislation, and we have asked for four points. first, member states must indicate how and within what timeframe they will transpose the principles of the sme priority principle into the national regulatory framework. secondly, member states should be obliged to present the progress made in implementing the sme priority principle in the annual reports on the national reform programmes for the lisbon process. thirdly, we need uniform criteria for measuring progress in implementing the sme priority principle. and fourthly, we must also make the principle of giving priority to smes a binding part of future legislation at european level. and i say on this occasion that we should review all existing regulations for their procyclical impact on smes. we need to move fast.
i have to say, madam president, a difficult compromise has been found, and i believe mr. schwab has delivered a masterpiece here, so from now on for me: master schwab. the early introduction of the esp anti-lock braking system is particularly welcome in order to increase the safety of motorists on europe's roads. the fact that the wet grip values of tyres will be further improved in the future and that tyre pressure monitoring systems, lane keeping assistants and predictive emergency braking systems for other vehicle categories will be considered is also positive. i would like to criticise the fact that manufacturers have made their way with higher rolling noise for trucks, and i do not welcome the fact that other safety measures besides esp are not being introduced earlier than proposed. i would also like to point out that the council's compromise on a precise classification of the requirements for the handling and traction characteristics of winter tyres has not been implemented. the fact that the characteristics of the tracks to be controlled were not specified, for example in the case of smooth ice or mud, remains incomprehensible to me. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. parliament had provided for a transitional period of 12 months in this case, which would have been necessary here. in conclusion, i would like to remind you once again of the design speed of 180 km/h, because i think that is a very sensible measure.
in writing. the decision on integrated pollution prevention and control (ippc) gives europe the chance to create uniform high standards of protection. in the sensitive area of industrial emissions, it is important that european companies are given an incentive to use the cleanest and most efficient technology available. the best available technique principle should be strengthened in future. the commission has also proposed that the ippc directive be amended to include a new ippc directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the effects of pollution. we should therefore carefully weigh up how much reporting is actually required and how much would be more detrimental to the viability of the concept. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the new technologies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have fallen into the trap of globalisation, partly because we have not been able to avoid the trap of europe. the european case is essentially that we have not acted and are not acting in accordance with the tried and tested principles of transparency of the scandinavian and other countries. i have been in this house for 10 years now, and it is no coincidence that when i came here, i did not come with this intention, but i said very quickly, children of men, that transparency is the key issue, and that is why i founded the european transparency initiative back in 2000. the commission has adopted this in the same words, but the content is still poor. commissioner, you can read what i said to your swedish colleague, anna lindh, in a long speech at the nice summit: as a swede, you know what we are talking about. you know what to do. but in reality, we are working here in the european union, as far as transparency is concerned, like a snowplow between one place and another, where an avalanche has fallen. we can't get through it, and there's always more snow coming. the only thing that can save this european union is real transparency on the swedish model plus the freedom of information act in the usa now and immediately. otherwise, you will experience quite different avalanches, which will then, however, descend into populated areas.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu is clearly aware of the alienation of citizens from politics, and therefore it is constantly trying to demonstrate its friendliness to citizens. this includes regular approaches to facilitate access to parliament, council and commission documents. the internet is, of course, a simple and inexpensive tool. the eu homepage has been revised, but it is more logical and clearer than its predecessors. the eu's online presence also highlights the importance of multilingualism as an essential factor for greater transparency, legitimacy and efficiency of the union. but unfortunately, it does not really take account of its own wishes. in practice, the three working languages, german, english and french, could be used consistently to reach a large part of the population. the current president's website, which is in english, french and czech, also ignores the fact that german is the most widely spoken mother tongue in the eu, with a share of at least 18%, and that 14% of eu citizens speak it as a foreign language. i think it is time that we finally took this fact into account more fully.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. other i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking about diversified gas transport routes, and i would add: and resources. because: it is not only the gas routes, but also the gas sources that should be differentiated, and that would include here. if this amendment is rejected, that should be included in the original text.
mr president, the oral amendment applies in both cases, but i know that the ppe-de group will vote differently on the split vote, so that does not change anything; i agree.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am in favour of a common asylum policy in the european union, which leads to rapid and secure decisions. i am against this report because it contains points which are absolutely unacceptable: for example, the extension of the concept of refugee far beyond what is currently contained in the geneva convention, or the rejection of the safe third country regime, on which we have already been able to agree positively, or the assignment of tasks to frontex with which frontex has absolutely nothing to do, or the free choice for asylum seekers of the country which should be responsible for the procedure - that is a dissolution of the dublin convention - or the facilitated access to the labour market for asylum seekers. we want swift procedures, not the integration of asylum seekers who may have to leave the european union after 14 days because they will not be granted refugee status anyway. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the commission has put forward a regulation to amend eu asylum law, as it is urgently needed, especially in today's world. the number of refugees is constantly increasing and the current asylum regulations and policies are no longer able to cope with this situation. i therefore believe it is essential that the commission's reforms be implemented as quickly as possible, and i believe that the following points are particularly important: there must be a common asylum system, leading to 'uniform and reasonable time limits'. the rights of refugees must be strengthened refugees cannot, in principle, be detained because of their particularly vulnerable status. there must be uniform controls at the borders to facilitate access for persons entitled to international protection. the current dublin system, which does not take into account the wishes of asylum seekers when choosing, for example, a european country, needs to be revised to allow people whose special needs are recognised to live in another eu country. the individual states must always be able to decide independently who they accept, how many they accept and why someone is accepted. i support the commission's proposal and the own-initiative report, but i would point out again that the key here is rapid and uniform implementation.
in writing. - on the one hand, cooperation on asylum issues is important in the face of massive refugee flows, on the other hand, the usefulness of the planned european asylum agency is questionable. training can be organised without training, and some of the measures designed to achieve this are the responsibility of other organisations such as frontex. and it is not at all the case that this agency should draw up risk analyses and then make them mandatory for the member states to apply, that is, prescribe which asylum seeker is to be admitted. this is a profound interference with the sovereignty of the eu countries which can only be rejected.
in writing. − more and more courts are dealing with questions of international or crossborder law of evidence: accidents of austrians in germany, for example, or defects in goods or services purchased from another member state, witnesses living at the other end of the eu, and defendants moving away. the right to a hearing shall not in any event be terminated if the evidence is outside the state of the court seised. as practice shows, there are still unresolved issues in relation to cross-border taking of evidence in civil and commercial matters. i have therefore agreed to this report.
in writing. − the global financial and food crisis has led to a reduction in consumption, which has increased the share of sales of discount stores. we also impose restrictive production regulations on our domestic food producers and promote quality labels and the like. at the same time, products are imported which do not meet domestic quality standards and cannot be controlled for compliance with them. but this puts a lot of pressure on the farmers here, and we must be careful not to let the deaths of farmers escalate in this difficult situation and we lose the ability to feed ourselves throughout the eu. people who are willing to pay for the quality of their food are easily lost in the confusion of labels and signs. not everything that says organic comes from the domestic market, not everything that says a country of origin comes from that country. there is a lot of hypocrisy here, and food scandals and labelling fraud are coming to light. the consumer must finally be able to rely on labelling. the present initiative seems to be moving in that direction, which is why i have agreed to it.
in writing. - for the first time, the focus of european legislation is not on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which is not a cause for celebration but a cause for mourning! 2009 will be a crucial year for the survival of thousands of smes. because if the lead companies close, the little ones will inevitably follow. the credit crunch, of which much has been said, is clearly reflected in the decline in the volume of credit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the basel ii rules do not completely cut off the supply of finance to smes. and if we want to reduce bureaucracy, the simplification of a procedure - if it is felt at all in the enterprise - must not be overridden by difficulties in other areas. last but not least, tendering and contracting must be made more sme-friendly so that small businesses can also have a chance. i voted for the small business act, hoping that this time it will be more than a piece of paper with targets and actually be implemented.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i thank you very much, mr president, ladies and gentlemen. tomorrow's decision on external costs in road freight transport is a decision on whether freight transport will finally become sustainable, whether there will be fair competition between rail and road in the future and whether the polluter pays principle will finally apply to transport at least a little . the costs are not new, they have been there for a long time. only at present they are paid for out of the national budgets. we must put the health of our coaches and the environment ahead of the most unbroken roads. the burdens are all well known. the damage to health along the transit routes is documented, and this is a call for action. the stricter emission standards for trucks, which had been expected to be high, were not sufficient. every improvement in every single truck was useless because at the same time, growth has offset everything. this means that we need new targeted measures to provide a better framework for a market which has lost its way. this also means that, for example, the benefits for multiple drivers that currently exist must be abolished. because that's how you reward polluters even more for polluting. we are asking for the greatest possible account to be taken of all the external costs which are currently borne by the budgets, and i conclude with my old ceterum censeo: the sensitive zone of the alps needs special protection.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economy, the environment and people are the three cornerstones into which we must integrate european legislation on tolls and the eurovignette. it is probably true, following the alphabet, but also perhaps because of the subject, that we must rearrange the three priorities for freight transport in europe. today it must be: first, the people, second, the environment and third, the economy. we, the commission and parliament, want to do that. the commission has put forward a very good proposal on the internalisation of external costs: more cost-effectiveness in transport - in freight transport, but not only in freight transport - and we have to thank then vice-president barrot and now vice-president tajani for this. we have improved this proposal in the committee on transport and tourism. in particular, we have given greater emphasis to the concerns of the main stakeholders - people, the environment and the economy. i would like to express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr saïd el khadraoui, and to all the colleagues who have worked very constructively and actively here. we left the church in the village, too. europe cannot and should not regulate everything and every detail. the member states must also have their place as the shapers of their specific situation. this is also true, and especially with the keyword "congestion". the point here is not to punish those who are stuck in traffic, but to help us avoid traffic jams by providing constructive solutions. the emphasis here is on design, not prohibition. the devil is in the detail, as is often the case with our text. the commission's original proposal proposed that, after careful cost calculations, we should forget about everything and still introduce a definitive cost ceiling. we rejected this in committee in the former amendment no 20 as nonsensical. the position will be put to the vote again tomorrow as amendment no 40. the rapporteur is in favour. i ask all colleagues to support this position, we need this vote. in conclusion, i too deeply regret that the czech presidency has not found it worthwhile to send a representative to this parliament on this important legislative project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to take this opportunity, once things have settled down, to congratulate my colleague the rapporteur. it was a hard job, and yet remarkable progress has been made, which is a small step towards the complete greening of heavy goods transport, in particular no compensation for surcharges and the inclusion of noise, air pollution and some congestion, although it is debatable whether this is not a little too little, especially in the case of congestion. i am not satisfied with certain aspects of the report, but i would like to mention one in particular: the problem of climate change is now well known to everyone. we have therefore decided to adopt, especially for heavy industry, conditions which are not so easy to meet and which can be discussed. but what no one in austria and the rest of europe understands in these circumstances is that the european people's party has prevented one of the biggest co2 polluters, namely heavy transit, from having to pay a single cent for the costs it has caused. you will not be able to explain this to your constituents, ladies and gentlemen! they have to pay for it with their taxes, and there's really no way to explain it. so if the epp-ed rapporteur meant that a battle has been lost here, i would say that you should lose many such battles, because that is good for the vast majority of people in europe.
thank you, mr president. i would like to expressly welcome this proposal. we are on the right track here, particularly in the inclusion of the cost of dams in the total cost of roads. we must create cost-effectiveness here if we are to achieve that market economy instruments actually regulate transport. otherwise, we'll always have imbalances here. the debate has also highlighted the tension between peripheral and central regions. it is simply necessary to ensure that the peripheral regions, when they pass through our territory, also take account of the concerns of the population. this is very important, and i ask for your understanding here, because it is here that the population has reached some of the limits of exposure. the principle of subsidiarity, as expressed in the proposal, gives member states the possibility to decide for themselves whether they wish to internalise these external costs. for the central regions, and particularly for the alpine regions, it is clear that they will make use of this possibility. if peripheral regions do not do this, i can understand that. but overall we must try to make the individual sectors of the transport industry pay for the costs they actually incur. only then can we create a system that is truly sustainable and responsive to the needs of the people in the long term. thank you, sir.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i wanted to say something again because some of my colleagues have perhaps raised the question of the employment problem in a somewhat hypocritical way. i think we can all agree that it's incredibly important to secure jobs, especially in times like these. the freight industry is obviously suffering from this situation, but it is not just the freight companies that are suffering, railways, river shipping and maritime shipping are suffering as well. all this directive does is to reduce somewhat the unfair advantage that road haulage currently enjoys over other modes of transport. the question of jobs is quite another. we must make sensible economic and restructuring policies and we must continue to implement what we have decided in this house. but this directive has nothing to do with it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner and the commission for the fact that the subject of thermal insulation in buildings was raised here. it is one of the most efficient ways of saving energy, and in this respect it seems to me to be an important and correct way. my question in this connection is: does the commission see a way of providing the corresponding vat reductions for low-energy and zero-energy houses in the prefabricated sector? can you think of that and where do you want to go?
the commission has already done so. i have two quick questions. the first question is: what about those countries that are really provokingly low or no corporate taxes? it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid in its approach to the problem of the budget. the second is: shouldn't this question also be linked to a certain success? i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this.
the commission has already done so. industry is indeed producing devices which are also suitable for older and disabled users for the various purposes of the information society. however, almost all cell phones, emergency buttons, and similar gadgets are offered at very high prices. can the commission do anything about this? selling particularly simple technology at particularly high prices is not very consumer-friendly.
member of the commission. − first of all i have clearly signalled that i am ready to use the management tools that we have available. however, we have certain limits and it is very important that the decisions we might take do not mean that at the end of the day we shoot ourselves in the foot. we have to take into account the fact that intervention is a fine and – i was happy to hear – short-term measure. this is because we have to, i would not say get rid of it, but it has to apply to the market at a later stage, which rather prolongs the pain, but we cannot just dump it. as i said previously, we did show our commitment by increasing export refunds, both on butter and on powdered milk, ten days ago, and we are monitoring the market. concerning compensation, it seems that quite a lot of dairy farmers have forgotten that, under the 2003 reform, they were actually compensated via the direct payment, and so an amount not linked to the dairy cow per se, but calculated on the basis of historic production between 2000 and 2002, is now incorporated into the direct payment. i also sometimes have to remind some farmers that this compensation has already taken place. i know this is not a fully satisfactory answer in this difficult situation, but it has been taken into account. i sent a very clear signal during the green week in berlin at the beginning of january, saying that i was ready to spend some of the unspent money under the 2009 budget, and the commission has made a proposal to spend eur 1.5 billion in 2009 to cover the gap arising from the consequences of the health check not entering into force until 1 january 2010, when the package for trying to meet the new challenges comes into effect. the question of whether member states want to spend eur 1.5 billion is not in my hands, but in those of the heads of state and finance ministers, and i hope it will also be possible, via a sort of lobbying by members of the european parliament on their national governments, to push for a solution. i completely agree on the three reasons for the situation. for ireland, exporting into the uk with an exchange rate that makes life even more difficult is of course a huge disadvantage specifically for irish farmers. i do not under-estimate the spin-off consequences of the scandal in china, where some people might be much more cautious over the dairy products they eat and drink. the increase on the world market does not come exclusively from the united states. we have seen a significant increase taking place in new zealand, and this has been dropped on the world market with the consequences we have mentioned. i hope that in general, on the world market, production will go down, because this is a general problem and not one only affecting european dairy producers. it is very difficult to make money in the dairy sector at the moment. we will therefore not hesitate to use the tools available in an appropriate and balanced manner.
member of the commission. − i definitely think that european farmers can be proud of their standards and the commission favours any initiative that helps farmers, not least in the livestock sector, to communicate with consumers about the origin of products. as the honourable member states, there is currently no specific eu legislation dealing with the issue of origin-labelling for the sheep meat sector. of course, the general internal market rules about labelling and advertising of foodstuffs also apply to sheep meat. these rules require mandatory origin-labelling in cases where consumers might be misled regarding the true origin or provenance of the foodstuffs. it is not the commission’s view that there is a general problem of consumers being misled about the origin of sheep meat. therefore, the recent commission proposal for a regulation on food information to consumers does not extend the list to which compulsory origin-labelling applies. i would like to underline that the origin-labelling for beef and beef products is a special case, and i think we all keep in mind from where it came, because it was a spin-off of the bse crisis. therefore, in order to rebuild consumer confidence in beef, it was necessary to make more information available to consumers by clear labelling of the product, including its origin. it is also important to recall that already the existing legislation makes it possible to put in place voluntary labelling of sheep meat. if the whole supply chain could agree on such a labelling system, it could add value to their products to provide consumers with extra information. for the internal market to function smoothly, the commission’s proposal for a regulation on food information to consumers introduced a framework for voluntary origin indications. in particular, as regards sheep meat, when origin is mentioned, information on the different locations of birth, rearing and slaughter of the animal shall be provided. if these production steps took place in different member states, all origins should be indicated. looking further ahead, the commission is considering whether all different agricultural products should be labelled to show the place of farming and specifically whether eu farming requirements have been followed. i am aware that, during the public consultation on the green paper on the quality of agricultural products, stakeholders in the sheep meat sector have advocated compulsory origin-labelling. in may 2009 the commission will issue a communication, where we will seek to strike the right balance between simplification, transparency and product specification. a conference organised by the czech presidency will take place on this issue on thursday and friday this week, and i am sure we will have a lively and interesting discussion on labelling. it is important. it is not always easy, because nobody wants to read a novel on the back of food in supermarkets, so i think we should try to find a balance and the right solution. i am happy with all the comments that we have already had on the green paper.
member of the commission. − first of all, i should say that if you want an in-depth discussion on electronic earmarking on sheep then, as you probably know, you have to invite another commissioner – the commissioner responsible for consumer protection – but i will be happy to give my remarks on this issue. there seems to be unanimity now in the council on this issue. i have the opportunity to travel quite a lot and i meet many people who consider that the electronic identification system will kill many smaller producers because of the cost. i think you have to look into the possibility of using rural development funding to try and alleviate the cost of electronic earmarking. there is a line called ‘approximation of standards’ that can be used to call on rural development funding for these extra costs that will certainly be felt by many of the smaller sheep producers.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, a few days after 8 march, international women's day, the commission welcomes the opportunity to make a statement to the european parliament on the issue of childcare facilities for pre-school children. these facilities are essential to promote gender equality, better reconciliation of work and family life, but also to ensure a quality of life for children. at the barcelona european council in 2002, member states set themselves ambitious targets to be met by 2010. in line with the commitment it made to the european parliament in 2007, the commission presented a report on the implementation of the barcelona objectives in october 2008. in it, the commission recalled why it was important to invest more in childcare facilities. the commission recalled, in particular, that the barcelona objectives aim to remove barriers to access to the labour market, in particular for women. more than 6 million women in the eu (aged 25-49) report that their family obligations force them to work only part-time or not at all. the european economy is thus losing a significant productive potential, at a time when it is facing serious economic and demographic challenges and the social position of families is being weakened. the development of childcare facilities for preschool children allows parents to freely decide how to organise their time and how to better reconcile work and family life. the aim is not to force parents to entrust their children to these facilities. the aim is to provide such an opportunity to parents who wish to do so. the development of childcare services also contributes to poverty prevention, especially in single-parent families, of which more than one third are at risk of poverty. in the context of the demographic slowdown europe is experiencing, the availability of childcare facilities also supports the implementation of family planning. it is clear that the member states with the most advanced work-life balance policies and the highest female employment rates have the highest fertility rates. of course, child-care facilities also contribute to a child's development. numerous studies, in particular those carried out by the oecd and unicef, have shown that these services play an important role in the personal development of the child, provided that they are of high quality and that the child is entrusted to them for a reasonable period of time. childcare services can also have a positive impact on educational outcomes and future professional life. in its report, the commission notes that, despite all the good reasons given, most member states have still far from reaching the targets set in 2002. much work remains to be done, especially with children under three years of age. in addition, some establishments are operated only part-time, which limits the possibilities for parents to access the labour market. however, the commission acknowledges that significant progress has been made in a number of member states. the commitments made by the member states at european level and the calls made by the european parliament in a number of resolutions have played an important role in this respect. therefore, all stakeholders, in particular national and local authorities, need to come together to create an accessible, affordable and high-quality offer of childcare facilities. in the roadmap for equality between women and men, the european commission has committed itself to supporting member states' efforts in this area. it encourages member states to make full use of the possibilities offered by the structural funds. in addition, in order to help local authorities to implement measures in this area, the commission last year adopted an information brochure on the financing possibilities for family support measures. the commission will continue to promote the exchange of best practices and will regularly monitor the barcelona objectives in the context of the strategy for growth and jobs. it will also address the evaluation of family policies, in particular work-life balance policies, building on cooperation with the oecd. lastly, in the context of the post-2010 strategy for growth and jobs, the commission will support the maintenance of european objectives in the area of childcare services. some may question the wisdom of investing in childcare services in times of crisis. however, numerous studies have shown that when such services are not available, everyone pays the price. it is therefore important to act now to ensure access to childcare services in order to promote employment and promote equality, social inclusion and the interests of children.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. children and politics rarely have the interests of citizens and politicians been so far apart. the issue of children is a top priority for citizens throughout europe. for politicians, children's interests rank among the "far-flung" ones, as we can see here again. i don't know of any country that has its own children's ministry. the commission has no representative of its own to represent the interests of our young citizens. in parliament, the child is a topic that is scattered across all committees. i would therefore like to emphasize the commission here, as it is dealing with childcare facilities and the barcelona objective. thank you so much. in our parliamentary working group on the quality of childhood, we have found that: our children live in a very complex world. the future of a person who is a child here, now and today is completely uncertain. a child today can climb up the social ladder or fall down the ladder. it can stay in its own cultural circle or seek out a new one. it can follow a life-style similar to that of its parents or do the exact opposite. it can marry someone of the opposite sex or of the same sex. all this was completely different more than 50 years ago when we raised the united europe from the ashes. the diversity that characterizes us as europeans has become a defining factor in the lives of children. the concept of diversity must therefore be incorporated into the pedagogy of educators and teachers. this is still far too little taken into account at the moment. the european childcare and school systems are crumbling under the challenge of integration. in integration issues, we have to press the reset button. back to the start. let us approach this subject again with complete impartiality, in line with the motto: 'content through diversity'. i also ask all future meps to not only advocate gender mainstreaming, but also to fight for mainstreaming for children - especially now in the time of the global financial crisis - because otherwise we are putting our children in immense debt.
in writing. - i am in favour of the acceptable compromise on the new eurovignette. i have been fighting with the socialist group in the european parliament for years - against the massive resistance of some of the conservative epp group - to include the external costs (noise, congestion, pollution) in the toll calculation, so that the financial burden is shifted away from the taxpayer to the polluter, namely heavy goods vehicles. i am opposed to the likely outcome of the compromise on congestion costs, since their recognition as external costs was only possible on condition that it affected not only heavy goods traffic but all congestion-causing vehicles, including cars, due to the majority. it is also likely that the co2 calculation will not be enforced against the incomprehensible resistance of the epp. my motion in committee, calling for minimum tolls for all sections of the ten transport network, did not receive a majority. i shall certainly bring this proposal up again in the further discussion. i see a particular positive for austria in the fact that there will probably be no offsetting of external costs and the so-called alpine surcharge (higher toll in alpine regions). this means that austria may levy a higher toll in sensitive alpine regions and independently still be able to bear the external costs. this means that a higher toll is possible.
in writing. - since the enlargement to the east, at the latest, truck traffic in europe has increased, and some member states, such as austria, are experiencing a particularly strong impact. the problem we have today is that there are areas that cause high external costs for which the general public must pay. the transport of lorries across europe is one of them, and another important area is electricity. if we raise only the toll for lorries, but do not at the same time extend the railway network and finally remove the crossborder obstacles to rail transport, then we have only decided today to increase the price of goods, and the hoped-for relief for human health and the reduction of environmental pollution will not be achieved. i think that it would be counterproductive to punish someone who is stuck in traffic and that would probably lead to a shift of traffic back to small villages and towns, and we certainly do not want that. the only thing that remains in the long term is the possibility of developing infrastructure, and that is where we will finally have to make public transport attractive. the eurovignette presented today seems to be an acceptable compromise, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the financial crisis originating in the usa has now hit the real economy hard. experts are divided on how best to respond to this crisis and how best to stimulate the economy to keep unemployment rates from rising. but even before the financial crisis, the labour market was far from rosy: more and more workers were being pushed into part-time work, mini- and midi-jobs, and social security work was being steadily reduced. for a long time, more and more people have been living in poverty, despite being able to work. in view of the gloomy economic forecasts, it is foreseeable that the number of full-time employees will continue to decline and that, at some point, the short-term workers will also become unemployed. we must be as prepared as possible to avoid an army of unemployed. the appropriateness and sufficiency of the measures mentioned in this report are questionable. that's why i turned him down.
mr commissioner, mr president of the council! schengen is and has always been synonymous with the combination of security on the one hand and freedom/freedom of movement on the other. the citizens and all of us saw in it an added value of the european union. it has always worked very well and has been used to its fullest potential in the interim. what just happened is outrageous. but it is also annoying that the parliament - which has always been very cooperative - has not been given the necessary information. we've always informed the public. the schengen ii information system will function optimally on schedule, and now we have heard that such problems have arisen and that there is no end in sight to the dilemma. i would like to know whether the figures reported in the media, which say that some 100 million euros have been spent on the construction of schengen ii, are correct. are there any consequences to the company? or why has the commission, the council or whoever it is not started a timely follow-up check?
a writer. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to speak first and foremost about croatia. croatia has made a number of progresses. i am very grateful for the efforts in croatia itself, particularly in the area of judicial reform. there were steps that had to be taken. two new ministers have set things in motion. i know ministers can't do everything. but important things have happened in the fight against corruption and in the fight against transnational crime. secondly, as regards the question of cooperation with the international criminal court, i should like to make it clear that i expect croatia to take all the necessary steps. there were disputes over various chains of command and related documents. i hope that these matters can be clarified in the coming days so that there is no interruption or delay in the negotiations on this side. thirdly, croatia has also made some progress in economic reform. i am very pleased with the plans, including those for the shipping industry. it is not easy, but here the essential foundations have been laid. i am also glad that agreements can be reached with workers in the shipping industry. these reforms will be painful, but they are necessary, and they can be made in a reasonable way. i come now to the big question which is always controversial here, and that is the question of the border conflict. i am sorry to say, commissioner, that i am a little disappointed that you have taken this matter without having contacted parliament. i sent you the documents, you didn't substantially answer. we would probably be further along if you had treated these matters with more sensitivity. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the proposal for mediation. but we could have gone further if we had made a clear statement here from the outset, and not only afterwards, especially on the question of the importance of international law. we're in a difficult situation. both sides need to move, that's clear. the commission's original proposal was not optimal, at least in its wording. i would also have liked you to have been in close contact with parliament and the rapporteur. we could have done more together. i am sorry that this has not happened, but that is not the point of the debate. the core of the debate is how we move forward. we're moving on. that is probably the wording i shall put to parliament tomorrow. we will say that this mediation that you have proposed - okay, that's the way it is, and i want to support that very much - should be based on international law and, to put it in english, on international law inclusive on the principles of equity. the two sides must agree on this. both sides, croatia and slovenia, must recognise that international law is, but that of course the principles of equity, fairness, a just solution - if you will, a political solution - are also necessary. that is something that both sides have to accept, and it is actually a little sad that we are not getting anywhere in this situation. we have other problems in the world and in europe in particular, so these problems should be solved by agreement. unfortunately, yesterday's conversation did not turn out as positively as it should have, but i hope it will soon. let me make a general remark, because this also concerns macedonia: there are bilateral problems, but they should not block the enlargement negotiations. as for our proposal, which is sometimes misunderstood, of course bilateral problems should not be included in the negotiation framework! it's something that's outside. it is about the negotiations between the european union and the individual countries. in parallel, the bilateral problems should be resolved if both sides - in this case macedonia and greece - are willing to deal with things. we must send a clear signal from this parliament that both sides must take action in all these conflicts. it can't be that one side moves and the other side stays still. in all these cases, it must be clear that bilateral problems must not block accession negotiations, but that they can be worked on in parallel, and this parliament will also help to ensure that both sides in the two conflicts in question are able to move forward. i hope we can come to a good conclusion.
i have to say, madam president, i think it's very positive that you're trying to support family members to take on long-term care. the reality is, unfortunately, there aren't enough family members around. we need more highly qualified personnel. i would therefore ask the president-in-office what initiatives he intends to take to ensure that we have enough professionally trained nurses? is there any thought of a form of harmonized training because these are new initiatives?
i have to say, madam president, the remaining barriers to mobility are undoubtedly partly responsible for youth unemployment. we have excellent cross-border training programmes, including for apprentices. but the barriers in the area of social rights and health insurance mean that all these opportunities for mobility and additional training across borders cannot be exploited. what action is being taken by the presidency?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we know that the single european payment area is a real challenge, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. finally, they work very closely with the credit card systems, and the prices and costs resulting from these systems vary widely. i believe that the necessary transparency is not there either. it is precisely in times of crisis that we need to provide the appropriate support for the farms. it must be possible to increase the creditworthiness of the firms by reducing costs, because this will of course also lead to their obtaining credit. i think sepa would be a good tool here. it should be introduced as soon as possible to ensure that not only small and mediumsized enterprises can operate cost-effectively and efficiently, but that this also applies to the relations between small and large enterprises.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think what the commissioner said, that there is no military solution, should be on the front pages in sri lanka. that in view of the tensions that exist in the country, the problems that have accumulated here for many years, in fact the government is constantly trying to make an offer. it's just a failure of communication strategy. it is also necessary to recognize that the strategic situation of sri lanka also gives rise to external forces which are very difficult to control in the country alone. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the economic situation improves and that the infrastructure in these areas is improved, so that the necessary communication between the parties to the conflict is also possible. perhaps it is possible to use one or the other of the mediators here.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for your comments and your commitment to this issue. i would like to stress what you have said, namely that we are facing major challenges in our neighbourhood in terms of stability, democratic development and now of course economic development. it is therefore also a good time for us to express our commitment and willingness to work closely with our eastern neighbours. it is clear that we should also say this openly, that we are interested in our influence, the influence of the european union, also having an impact on our eastern neighbourhood. we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it in a way that is not going to be seen as a threat to the peace process. i hope that all of them are also genuinely seeking democratic development, especially now that they, like ukraine, are facing major economic problems. economic problems, partly uncaused, but partly, of course, also a little bit to blame. we should also be aware that we have to be critical of some things. the fact that we are making an offer means that we must at the same time criticise what we consider to be critical and demand what is necessary so that the countries themselves can make their contribution. i am thinking in particular of ukraine, but i will come back to that in a moment. it is absolutely essential that we see the eastern partnership not as an instrument against russia but as a means of strengthening the countries which neighbour the european union on the one hand and russia on the other. because russia should be our partner, and i hope that this will be a positive development, especially in this policy. i am very pleased that the united states of america and president obama, with vice-president biden and secretary clinton, are now pursuing a different policy. we should not be uncritical of internal developments in russia. but the reset button that biden talked about in munich was also meant to be pushed as an attempt to offer russia a new relationship. in this context, my group is not very happy that the report by mr onyszkiewicz, as voted on in the committee on foreign affairs, does not take up what america is now offering. we are behind america. this is bad! we should move forward with america, always putting the issue of human rights first of all. that will be necessary, and i hope that we will reach a joint resolution on russia. that seems to me to be absolutely important. i have already said that our offer, our eastern partnership, does not mean that we can approve of everything that is developing in our neighbouring countries. i am not saying that the european union supports you in whatever you do, whatever you argue about, whatever problems you do not solve. the leading forces in ukraine must finally come together to tackle the problems. the gas crisis is also linked to a dispute within the political spectrum of ukraine, and that is totally unacceptable to us. i don't want to blame anyone, but everyone can make up their own mind. but it's absolutely vital that we make that clear to ukraine. the same applies to georgia and all other countries. this is an offer from the european union, and i hope that our eastern neighbours will accept this offer, take it seriously and actually put stability and democracy into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the time has happily long passed when latin america was considered the backyard of the united states. today we see this area in a very different way, and particularly between europe and latin america, there are extremely many similarities and common interests which justify our extending strategic partnerships into this area as well. the topics of climate change, energy policy, the financial crisis, drug trafficking, etc., have been mentioned. there is a great deal in common between us and we have a lot of common interests. it is good that we are cooperating multilaterally with this area. it is good that we are also concluding bilateral agreements. the important thing is that we achieve a balance between the two partners. so if we are to achieve visa-free travel, we should also think about how we are dealing with, for example, returns, extradition agreements and the like, so that here ...
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. so, 50 years ago, the chinese army dealt the final blow to the tibetan resistance. since then, tibetans have been fleeing across the himalayas, across borders to other states, with untold hardship. to this day, several thousand people a year take on this immense task of crossing 5,000-metre-high passes - always on the run. if, as china always claims, the situation of tibetans is so great, then there would be no reason for them to flee, nor would there be any justification for journalists, for westerners, for observers to be allowed to visit this country for months either not at all or only in close company. the journalists were followed to the toilet by intelligence officers to make sure nothing illegal was done. i therefore ask myself: what is our role as the european union? we must somehow get the sino-tibetan dialogue to resume. but it must be based on something else. the chinese side has repeated the same accusations and demands without even a hint of a response to the clarification by tibetan representatives that the issue is not to secede from china and become an independent state, but to achieve autonomy. commissioner, how do we deal with the fact that the monitoring of the internet in tibet is even more stringent than in the rest of china and that it was european companies that provided the tools for this monitoring to be so efficient? we must act, we are called upon to do so in our own homes and in dialogue.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. thank you, mr president. there have been many talks between the groups in the last few days, until the very last minute. the following amendment seems to me to be the one which has the widest support here and, as far as i have direct information, was voted in agreement with both croatia and slovenia. it reads as follows in english: recalls the informal agreement reached on 26 august 2007 by the prime ministers of croatia and slovenia on the submission of their border dispute to an international body; welcomes the readiness of croatia and slovenia to accept the mediation offer made by the commission and takes the view that this mediation should be based on international law; in this context, looks forward to a rapid advancement of the accession negotiations;
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would first like to say that i do not think it is fair that, if i withdraw my proposal, you should reject part of my original text. that's not a fair way to do it. but i would like to refer to what mrs ibrisagic has just said. we can agree with that formulation. i would then withdraw my motion no 3 and hope for fairness on the other side.
i have to say, madam president, i have a favor to ask. since elections are due on 7 june and we are currently facing a huge influx of visitors, i would ask that we consider whether we could not open all the rooms and the plenary for visitors here in strasbourg until 24.00 at the april and may partsession, so that we can also provide all visitors with adequate care.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to criticise the commission for its decision to ban the traditional incandescent lamp, which was the subject of a written procedure last week. i fully support the energy efficiency requirements and the climate targets we have agreed with the council and the commission. only the procedure here was the wrong one. it is clear that citizens do not feel involved when decisions in the comitology procedure are closed to the public. the commission is therefore to be blamed for not having taken this decision together with the european parliament in accordance with the normal procedure. secondly, the communication was very bad. people are very concerned because there has been no comprehensive impact assessment of this measure, and these lamps - as we know - do contain mercury and are a real danger to human health, especially for children. thirdly, it would have been wise to have ventured into the future and promoted more modern techniques. that is why i ask the commission to submit a new proposal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about eu cohesion policy, when we talk about regional development, perhaps we should also look at the applicant countries. after visiting turkey last weekend - in eastern anatolia in particular - and seeing the problems in diyarbakir in the kurdish region, i thought it would be necessary to explain to the applicants the benefits and the need for regional development. the problem in the kurdish region is not only an ethnic problem, not only the question of the right of self-determination and the like, nor is it a terrorist problem, but rather a problem of regional development, a problem of balancing regional development between the city and the countryside. and i think we should remind turkey that it is already pursuing a european cohesion policy here. otherwise it will not be able to develop european maturity in this matter either.
in writing. in keeping with the european union's motto 'united in diversity', our continent must become more of a 'europe of the regions'. the european union has a long tradition of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe. it should therefore be emphatically formulated as an objective in its own right alongside economic and social cohesion. in strengthening the regions, special attention must be paid to sensitive areas, as partly envisaged in the current cohesion debate. the increased effort must be taken into account, especially in mountain areas, which are very time-consuming and costly to manage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of life in the regions of the community. the agricultural sector is particularly important in this context. milk production in mountain areas is an important contribution to the preservation of rural areas and should therefore be adequately supported. the efforts of small and mediumsized enterprises, which create jobs outside the major european economic centres, should also be commended. overall, the current cohesion debate sets the tone for a modern regional policy and takes the traditional structure of europe into the future.
in writing. - the recent introduction of energy-saving lamps, which will benefit manufacturers in particular, makes the alienation from the citizen visible. how can the people of europe feel close to a european union in which referendums - if they take place at all - are repeated until the result of the vote is in line? how can austrian citizens, for example, identify with an eu that has made them a transit avalanche, punished them with sanctions for democratic elections, and forced them to renounce their neutrality and banking secrecy? the eu was created for economic reasons, and this is still felt: it is not a citizen's project, it is a project of a detached eu establishment, following the mantra of liberalisation and free movement of capital. as long as there is no change of mind and the lack of transparency and democracy persists, we can adopt declarations of intent one after the other, the alienation from the citizen will continue and the frustration with the eu will grow. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. − in recent years, rural areas have not only suffered from continuous urban migration, but also from the continuous decline in infrastructure (police stations, food shops, public transport, etc.), which has been accompanied by a growing loss of attractiveness and has accelerated the extinction of entire rural areas. if post-liberalisation causes a wave of closures of post offices, entire regions may be left without supplies. we should not be surprised that the trend towards rural exodus and the death of farmers will increase in the coming years. the misguided eu aid policy, which regularly benefits only the big players, and the years of neglect of the countryside are starting to pay off. the overall concept is still lacking. without such a system, individual measures are doomed to failure, which is why i voted against the roszkowski report.
in writing. - i support the report by mr zsolt lászló becsey on higher taxes on tobacco products. i very much welcome the gradual increase in taxes on cigarettes and other tobacco products from 2014. i also believe that updating the definitions of certain types of tobacco products is essential to ensure a higher level of health protection. i have been a strong advocate of non-smoking for many years and i think that this report is another step in the right direction. this is supported by the commission's expectation that this proposal will reduce tobacco consumption by 10% over the next five years.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs cristina muscardini on taking stronger action against genital mutilation. over half a million women are still affected by this cruel ritual today, which must be banned once and for all and prosecuted. the measures and decisions taken so far must be consolidated and extended, and comprehensive strategies and action plans must be drawn up to protect women from the archaic tradition of circumcision. the commission must continue to seek to include the abolition of genital mutilation as a clause in negotiations with third countries and the fact of circumcision in all eu member states must be prosecutable.
in writing. − on the one hand, the eu is introducing multi-million-dollar language learning and exchange programmes to promote multilingualism, and on its homepage it highlights the importance of multilingualism as a key factor in the union's greater transparency, legitimacy and efficiency, but on the other hand it is not sticking to it. the internet presence of the current presidency, for example, does not take into account that german is the most widely spoken mother tongue in the eu, with a share of at least 18%, and is spoken as a foreign language by 14% of eu citizens. this is a lost opportunity for greater civic engagement. in practice, the three working languages, german, english and french, could be used consistently to reach a large part of the population. the rapporteur seems to have reached a similar conclusion, so i agreed.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to congratulate the commission on this communication. she has made this communication open, just as we have imagined in the past. i'm very happy for you. the over 300 entries are worth following. these are committed proposals that will take us forward. i am very grateful that the communication addresses the issues of accountability, transparency and visibility of policies. this is going to be crucial. if i have just applauded my predecessor, it is of course in the light of the current impression of the question 'how can the council of the european union escape the control of the european parliament?' with regard to lisbon, this means that if they really get more rights there is no parliamentary and public scrutiny for the 8 billion or so. just so we're clear, i'm from a neutral country. i should be able to tell my people what happens to the money. i can't do that, even though i'm chairman of the budget control committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. i am very grateful for your suggestions. i'm sorry that this debate is falling into a political hole where we're already saying goodbye and wishing each other well. i 'm doing the same thing . you have done a good job as commissioner, congratulations!
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. europe has now succeeded in creating a so-called zero budget. we are the only political level that has a zero budget available. we have 0.89% of the gross national income at our disposal and we are an example of how european taxpayers' money can be used sparingly. we have also demonstrated this over many years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament and the council should agree on how this money is to be used to add value to europe. that is a very crucial basis which we must create. we have just had a debate on the eib. i believe that in times of crisis, funds should be made available as quickly as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the simplification of administration and the reduction of bureaucracy are important conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, because they now want to be active on world markets and they need our support to do so. the intensive development of infrastructure between member states, as envisaged in the economic recovery programme - to give just one example, nabucco or other energy pipelines - plays a key role here, because it allows for quick investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not left behind. we should stand up for that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make it very clear that i very much support everything that the commissioner has said. in my country, austria, many thousands of workers are also directly or indirectly affected by the crisis. this is also true of our neighbours, slovakia, and many other countries. i am particularly concerned because, of course, it is clear that the automotive industry is a key industry. it is not a question of thinking of it as an outdated industry, because a great deal of research and development is linked to the existence of the automobile industry in europe, and of course many suppliers, including many small and mediumsized enterprises, depend on the automobile industry. you always imagine the big companies, and then you have little compassion. but when i think of the many subcontractors, which are small and mediumsized enterprises, it is quite different. i would particularly like to support what you said about general motors, commissioner. we also have a large general motors plant in vienna. we know the fears of the people who are waiting for the decision in america. i hope that this will be a positive example of transatlantic cooperation, where america - it is not the american government, but america as a whole - which is constantly asking europe to do more to deal with the crisis, etc., here is a concrete positive example, so that europe has the chance to succeed with its own companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that must be our goal!
i have to say, madam president, if europe is putting money in its hands, and especially if the member states are putting a lot of money in their hands to help the automobile industry in its crisis situation, then it cannot be just about safeguarding the stock and the status quo and preventing bankruptcies, but it is about a number of other concerns. the most important have been mentioned. it is a question of securing employment for the people who are looking for it and need it, and in the long term. this requires that we promote new technologies, innovation and, above all, sustainability in the transport system more than we have done so far. we should therefore link all our measures to these objectives, so that in a few years' time we will not be blamed for having thought of all this many years ago, and we will not be in the next and new crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his commitment and expertise in these negotiations. it was necessary to negotiate, because the limits of the sky were not visible, but they were clearly there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now, given the speed of travel, the safety requirements, the extreme growth in air traffic, you would have to believe that improvements should have been made much earlier, if the idea of the airspace block had been talked about and negotiated since 2004. i think we can make some real progress here. it is not just the improvement of air routes, it is not just increased convenience for passengers and better calculability, it is also, if done well, a reduction in emissions. we need them in air transport, because it is growing so fast, very urgently, and because our emissions trading in air transport has not been very good. the council has held off until the end. his braking was not as successful as he had hoped, so even i can agree.
i have to say, madam president, the two marinescu reports are concerned with the better organization of air traffic in europe. and here, not least because of the important and successful work of our rapporteur, a great deal has been achieved in a first reading agreement. this is important, especially at a time when the european aviation industry, and indeed the aviation industry worldwide, is in a very bad way. but in this current crisis, we should not just be concerned with better functionality here and now. we should also not lose sight of old important issues. passenger rights: in the last crisis before 9/11, we devised a passenger policy on denied boarding and delays, where we consciously took the need for protection of the aviation industry as a measure, and not just the need for protection of passengers. in the current situation - crisis plus bad winter weather - airlines are shamelessly exploiting this. you are so shameless! the next item is liquids. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. it doesn't make anyone safe anymore. she might be giving a few people jobs at the airport security checkpoint. she annoys a lot of people, and as i said, she's been nothing but an alibi. mr vice-president, you assured us at the time, as your predecessor had already done, that the unding would be abolished if, after checks, it turned out that there were no additional security gains. we're all anxiously waiting for the unding to be abolished.
i have to say, madam president, it's not just that planes are now flying across national borders. although the gentlemen on the far right, who, if they are not unqualified, are hiding behind their beautiful flags, probably haven't noticed yet: the fact is that european airspace is also completely liberalised, and it is therefore essential that this liberalised airspace should also be centrally controlled, centrally monitored and centrally operated. and these two reports are the right way to do that. it is essential to improve the coordination of air traffic in europe. it is imperative that we establish the same high-level safety standards everywhere, and i am convinced that this is the right path to take. at the moment, because of these airspace monitoring blocks that we have, there are still far too many flights, far too long and far too cumbersome. it also emits far too much co2, and the airlines have enormous costs. all this will be changed and improved by a regulation which we shall adopt tomorrow. i should also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr marinescu, for his very good cooperation. i think we have achieved something very good for the people of europe. and that's what we do.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today we can celebrate european mobile phone day, because today we have adopted the roaming regulation ii together with the commission and the council. we've found a good closure, and that will reduce the cost of use accordingly. that's a good thing in a recession. we also have a cost-cutting program in mind for the chargers. this is very important for the citizens of europe. the charger is about being able to put the efficiency ratings on a label, similar to refrigerators, so you can see how much electricity a charger uses. it is also important that an automatic shutdown is mandatory by law, so that the charger automatically shuts down when the device is charged. we should also instruct our standards institutes to draw up proposals to enable us to act accordingly. i also welcome the timetable presented by the commissioner here, which calls for a voluntary agreement to be reached by april and for technical legislation to be introduced after that. of course, this is not so easy. on one side, we have the connection from the charger to the cell phone. this can be very easily established by technical standards. the problem of the socket is one we know from european standards. here too, proposals should be developed to find a solution to this problem, which is not only a european problem but in fact a world problem. perhaps the international organization for standardization can be brought in to find a solution around the globe.
i have to say, madam president, i have one more question to ask commissioner verheugen: there is the usb-2 interface, which can transfer not only energy but also data. wouldn't that be an alternative solution?
the commission has already done so. i believe that the regulation has achieved two main objectives, namely greater security on the one hand and greater citizen-friendliness on the other. by adding fingerprints and by adding the image, we are making the new visas counterfeit- and abuse-proof. i mean citizen-friendly because what we are proposing is a one-stop-shop, which means that the necessary data is collected all at once. in addition, you do not have to go to the site every time, because the data can be stored for up to five years. i also think it would be more beneficial for citizens to shorten the distance by encouraging cooperation between member states or by allowing external service providers to be involved, provided that data protection rules are respected. and they are guaranteed to be kept! the necessary precautions have been taken. i can also reassure anyone who is concerned that external service providers are being abused or that the rules are not being followed. i can tell you from my country that we have had quite positive experiences here. i therefore support this approach as one that leads to greater civic friendliness. i am also in favour of the rapporteur's report, and i congratulate her, which is not always the case in our cooperation, mrs ludford. but what i don't like is the fact that we can't take fingerprints from children as young as six years old, simply because we would be making the children safer, because the identity could be clearly identified, and we would be preventing child trafficking and other criminal acts. i'm sorry about that. i hope that after a study has been carried out and after three years at the latest, everyone will be so sensible that it will be possible to take fingerprints to protect children from the age of six.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the big european vision has unfortunately made brussels deaf and blind to many of the eu's failings. the citizens are now having to pay the price in the wake of the crisis, for example for the neoliberal errors of recent years or for a not really solid preparation for enlargement to the east, which is now proving to be a mortgage. the apparently firmly planned accession of turkey will not bring the desired energy security either, but only political instability, islamism and a financial hole worth billions. the eu must emancipated itself from its previous role as a vassal of us policy at the forthcoming g20 finance summit and impose strict rules and rigorous controls. finally, washington's long-standing refusal to regulate the volatile financial instruments has laid the foundation for the present financial dilemma. in the midst of a crisis, the red pencil is to be used. there is plenty of potential for savings, for example in the eu agencies' wild growth. increasing the crisis funds can only be a first step, we need much more plans in case a country slides into bankruptcy, and we need concepts for the massive social problems that are as sure to come as the amen in prayer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i too would like to congratulate the czech presidency. yesterday's roaming graduation was sensational. the citizens of europe benefit from this. the energy and gas package that has been discussed and many other points are being negotiated by the czech presidency in an excellent way, in our view. this is also true of the motivation of the european people to reward those who go the extra mile, especially in times of crisis. we should therefore also support commissioner kovács in putting forward more proposals for progressive depreciation. if we assume that over a trillion euros will be invested in new power stations by 2030, then we should start today. that would create jobs and growth.
in writing. − biometric data can make passports and travel documents more resistant to forgery and thus contribute to the fight against organised crime and the flood of migration. this is only possible if the biometric data are collected correctly. there seems to be some problems. when hackers boast on the internet about how easily fingerprints can be forged at german registration offices, and point out that when the id card is reduced to the size of a cheque card, the photos are digitally cut, making biometric identification more difficult, doubts can easily arise about this technology. in any case, the use of biometric data must be subject to data protection for the general public. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i am in favour of the performance and sustainability of the european air transport system. since 2004, air traffic management has been integrated into the common transport policy on the basis of the single european sky regulation. the enlargement has increased the european aviation market to 37 countries and made the eu a global player. the updating of the list was therefore urgently needed. a key element of the single european sky is the creation of 'functional airspace blocks' (fabs), which are no longer geared to national borders but to traffic flows. the current 60 blocks and control centres are expected to be reduced to 15 to 20. this is not only in keeping with the concept of a common europe, but it also saves time, money and fuel. the fragmentation of airspace has meant that each flight has been on average 49 km longer than absolutely necessary. the commission expects a saving of between 7% and 12% of co2 emissions. functional airspace blocks are essential because they allow the integration of air traffic control of several member states into a european transport system. the fab will also be represented by a coordinator, following the example of the ten coordinators.
in writing. - i vote for the report on airports, air traffic management and air traffic control services. since 2004, air traffic management has been integrated into the common transport policy on the basis of the single european sky regulation. the enlargement has increased the european aviation market to 37 countries and made the eu a global player. the updating of the list was therefore urgently needed. the second report of the package extends the scope as follows: the control of airports and their operators will also be unified. the austrian airports are also subject to this new rule. especially in times of economic crisis, the following are particularly positive: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. this is an important contribution to the economic recovery.
in writing. - i vote for the report by mrs kartika tamara liotard on the safety of novel foods. there must be stricter rules on the authorisation of novel foods such as products made from cloned meat and the use of nanotechnology. novel foods now include a large number of foods produced using novel methods and which are currently only marginally or not present on the european market, as well as foods that are simply unknown to the european consumer. but it also includes products derived from cloned animals, the long-term effects of which are currently poorly understood. since 1997, over 100 novel food authorisations have been applied for and more than 20 have been granted. i am in favour of an extra regulation on cloned meat products and that no new authorizations be granted until it comes into force. food containing nanomaterials should be banned until a suitable animal-friendly and safe evaluation method is found. if such products are placed on the market, they must be marked in such a way that the consumer is immediately informed of all information on their origin.
in writing. − it should be clear by now that the documents submitted in the admission procedure are often embellished and lack long-term knowledge. at the latest, when one hears of the seemingly rigorous and unscrupulous attempts to establish gene monopolies in genetically modified seeds, alarm bells should be sounded when cloned meat is mentioned. in any case, the consequences of cloned meat, including the interactions with genetically modified feed or pesticides and nuclear radiation, are not foreseeable. in addition, cloning does not appear to be compatible with eu animal welfare rules. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal cloning industry is not affected by the new technologies. i have voted for the liotard report for these reasons.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report on substances that deplete the ozone layer. it is a recast of the ozone-depleting substances regulation, the eu's main instrument for implementing the montreal protocol, which commits to phase-out ozone-depleting substances. the main objective is to ensure compliance with the provisions of the 2007 protocol, thereby ensuring that the ozone layer can recover and that harmful effects on human health and ecosystems are avoided.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to thank mr siekierski very warmly for his report. i dare say he did a really good job. for more than two decades now, the european union has had a programme for the distribution of food to those in need. for example, in 2006, some 13 million people in 15 member states were supported by a wide range of assistance measures. i think that this programme - and both the commissioner and the rapporteur have said this - is an important contribution to maintaining and promoting solidarity within our european community. i believe that the eu is and will remain not only an economic common market but also, and above all, a community of values and solidarity. i also support the rapporteur's view that, as in the past, the european union should provide 100% of the funding for the programme, in the spirit of a modern eco-social market economy with three pillars - economic, ecological and social - all three of which are equally important in order to enable all member states to participate in the programme. i would like to stress in particular that, although it is important that products produced in the community should be used primarily, this should not be the only use, if necessary. in conclusion, i personally feel that it is only natural to help the poorest of the poor, within the limits of our ability. i very much hope that today - as the commissioner has said - a large majority will support this report, to really send a signal to the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a broad consensus in the house that we need to protect consumers better, especially when small amounts of damage to the individual lead to a problem of large amounts of damage overall because they cannot see the possibility of a meaningful individual action. the question is how to organise and improve consumer protection. i think it is very important here - and i thank the commissioner very much - that it has been said quite deliberately that we want to consider all the alternatives and all the perspectives on this complex matter and only come to solutions after careful consideration. i would like to mention one aspect in this context which has not been mentioned before. we have already experienced - and this may be the case even more in the future - that for some ngos, for some consumer associations, the possibility of organising mass actions will become a means of advertising. we should be very conscious of this danger in our thinking, lest we end up helping those who do not need help and leaving those who do need help in the lurch.
i have to say, madam president, i would first like to thank mr vondra and commissioner ferrero-waldner for their comments, which were much more realistic and, in our view, more accurate than the present report by mr onyszkiewicz, which i regret because i personally appreciate mr onyszkiewicz's work. i do not understand why a report is being presented here which does not bring this common basis - criticism on the one hand and willingness to cooperate on the other - to a common denominator, as the council and the commission have done. let me repeat our criticisms, and i mean our criticisms of russia, so that it is not unclear: the neighbourhood. we do not understand and criticize russia's behavior towards georgia. but the world has long known that russia is not the only one to blame. it's just that in some circles here, they don't want to acknowledge it. you have to see both sides. when i look at the former allies of the georgian president, from surabishvili to burdchanadze, and the way they are now opposing president saakashvili, and the way they are not treating human rights very well, i wonder why only russia is being criticised and not, for example, georgia. or the energy crisis, where it's ukraine. we know very well today - and you know it as well as we do - that ukraine is also to blame for the internal political situation in ukraine. but it's always russia. if mr horáček, who now seems to want to solve the government crisis in the czech republic, says that we should not put the energy question above human rights, nobody is doing that. but tell us concretely: should we now say "we don't want your gas until you respect human rights"? it is important to be open, honest and clear about what you want, and not just throwing keywords into the discussion. thirdly, human rights: we are deeply disappointed with the way in which human rights are being treated in russia. i'm sure you will. this is unacceptable to us. we will never be silent wherever human rights are violated. as i said, whether in georgia, russia or any of our member states, wherever human rights are violated, perhaps in one or another country against russian citizens or non-citizens - unfortunately we have this in our european union too - we must clearly address it there. of course i did. but please, with the same eye size! we must do so with the same standards and the same criteria. fourthly, i am very sad that russia and the leading forces in russia are not developing a relationship with their own history, as many of our countries have done. i am referring to the debate we have already had and to the vote on the resolution on history tomorrow. russia would gain a huge image if it were to be more critical of its own history, if it were to present stalinism not as a great patriotic achievement but as a crime that must be dealt with. of course, we have made our position quite clear. but we have to say this to all countries, to all totalitarian regimes equally, that we are not ready to accept totalitarian regimes and are not ready to not deal with history. so it may be possible, if at least one or two of our amendments are adopted, to try to bring balance back and to pursue exactly this double strategy: massive criticism of russia, but also a willingness to enter into a partnership with russia.
in writing. the new comprehensive partnership agreement between the european union and russia is very welcome from my point of view. russia is the eu's third most important trading partner and is also of strategic importance for europe's energy supply. the agreement with the russian federation lays the foundations for improved cooperation between the two parties. however, in the light of the importance of the eu and russia to each other, this agreement must not only remain an act of political will, but also be enforceable. the european parliament's recommendation to the european council stresses above all the importance of respect for human rights and media freedom in russia. as relations are to be gradually developed at economic, security and educational levels, it is of great importance that european values are respected by all our partners. only in this way can the partnership between russia and the european union be extended to the mutual satisfaction of both parties.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank commissioner ferrero-waldner, because she really works very closely with the european parliament and is certainly the most diligent commissioner in this field. i want to thank you for that. it was also present at our meeting with the european economic area last week. the nordic dimension is particularly important here, and diana wallis has also repeatedly stressed that europe has a special responsibility here. i believe that it is particularly in the context of the financial and energy crisis that we must take a greater interest in this area and also respond to the wishes and needs of the people there, because ultimately man and nature are not in conflict but must complement each other. i believe that we can make good progress in this area, particularly in energy policy, and perhaps offer more intensive cooperation here too.
the commission has already done so. the european union is sometimes perceived as being a regulatory maniac and then rightly criticised, and the reason is quite simply that reports such as the one we are discussing now exist. as much as i support realistic measures against all forms of discrimination, i must also criticise the points raised here because they are simply not justified and do not produce the desired result. the point already raised is unacceptable, that for example, schools affiliated with churches can be sued if they reject teachers who do not conform to the denomination or have no denomination, or that insurance companies can be sued if they make a risk assessment, if there is a distinction based on age or even sex, or that there is a risk that all housing must be built equally without barriers. yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are getting to the point where we are no longer actually providing assistance to the disabled, but where all the housing is no longer affordable! instead of helping the disabled, affordable housing for all - that can't be the wish we have here. or the criticism of the burden of proof reversal. if i imagine that i, as a member of parliament, with 25 applicants for an assistant post, can be sued for an appearance of discrimination or a feeling of discrimination, then i will not be able to come to work at all, but will only be able to deal with the necessary evidence that i would then have to provide, just because vis-a-vis is felt, although i have not discriminated in any way. in addition, many concepts are undefined. the fact that the commission has not yet adopted the directive, which is a step in the right direction, is a sign that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments which have been tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i shall therefore vote against this report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my colleague from the conservative group has spoken about the fact that the sector is very concerned that if you drive just one minute too long, you may have to pay for weeks later. i can, unfortunately, from my point of view, reassure my colleague. firstly, the controls in the member states are very permeable - most member states do not fulfil their control obligations or do so very weakly - and secondly, the law enforcement in this area is still in its infancy. and this, despite the fact that we find a catastrophic situation. for example, if you stop a driver on the inner ring road after working 38 hours without interruption, no one can tell me that he has not found a parking space, but there is often pressure from the entrepreneur to drive through until he overturns. this is a danger to all other road users. i do not need to describe in detail the seriousness of accidents involving trucks. this is of course a matter of concern to trainers, because some of them may be carrying dangerous goods that could cause damage. so i think it's extremely necessary and important that we have good control here. control is essential here! secondly, i believe that we have such a long history of implementation in the member states, particularly with the introduction of the digital tachograph, that it is slowly but surely time for better control to be made possible for those who want to control for the benefit of drivers, for the benefit of other drivers, for the benefit of road safety and for the benefit of other road users.
i have to say, madam president, since i have a group of visitors from styria here today in the visitors' gallery, i shall try to start with the austrian version of the german language. what's in it has to be on it, and what's on it has to be right. this is something that is important for all of us, not just in this debate. we want to show that europe is committed to certain causes and that it is making a profit. we also want to make sure that we don't have a lot of picks on every product, and it's time - not just now before the european elections - to show people at home and abroad that the european union is committed to meaningful things that affect citizens, and that a lot of the nonsense that you read and hear every day is not so true.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to propose the following oral amendment, namely that we delete the word 'legal' in paragraphs 5, 8 and 16, because it gives the impression that children who are not registered, that is to say, in an ongoing asylum procedure, could be excluded from educational programmes. we want to guard against that. i ask that the word "legal" be deleted, because every child has the right to education if it is registered in a country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are happy to accept oral requests. but i would ask mr landsbergis to inform us in advance so that we can discuss this even if he is away. we cannot always make oral requests without information.
in writing. - for years, national and patriotic forces in the eu have been warning of the consequences of unchecked mass immigration. foreigners' shares of 20, 50 or even 90 percent show that the multi-cultural vision has failed. experiments with 'foreign-only classes' have proved fruitless, and intensive language courses are also limited if parents do not support their child. in austria, language courses for parents have been offered for years, but success is not yet achieved. the tendency to educate is passed on from one generation to the next, and when parents think education is useless, we run into walls, as we saw in france. the only solution is zero and negative immigration, a halt to family reunification, and it is necessary to finally demand the will to integrate. the eu's solution to the problem of more teachers with a migrant background teaching in schools is not realistic, which is why i rejected the report.
in writing. − it is very telling that the aim is to achieve illegal immigration through greater harmonisation of national rules and procedures on visas. the visa scandals of the past show how lax some countries are in their approach to issuing visas. these cases have not been sufficiently investigated and the consequences drawn from them have not been sufficiently drawn. the mass legalizations of recent decades also cast doubt on the usefulness of harmonization. unless all member states are in favour of strict visa requirements and rigorous immigration policies, all the way to zero immigration, the result can only be a levelling down. i voted against the lax report to avoid the possibility of immigration being opened up by the back door.
i have to say, madam president, i believe that here - i was my group's shadow rapporteur on the gas sector - a compromise has been found, but it is also a compromise in the other areas, and we can agree with it. the reason is that the market was not sought ideologically but practically. a common european market means above all that we give more opportunities to the national regulators, that we give them more power, that we draw up the criteria together in a european manner, so that no single regulator decides differently and one is dependent on the government and the other is not, and that we have a european agency which, in cooperation with the commission, can really work towards the creation of a european market. the second element, which is very important, is that the role of the consumer is strengthened. this is in several provisions - i wish there were more - which are in principle here. it is about ensuring that consumers have opportunities, rights and transparency in this important area of supply. these two conditions are met, and i therefore agree to this package.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i want to congratulate you on this package. it is a great step forward for our citizens in europe. you'll all feel it in your own wallets, in your own accounts. it is also a great step forward for small and mediumsized enterprises, because they need to become more competitive, especially in times of economic and financial crisis, and this energy package is the right approach. the fact that we have a european regulator that helps its own companies to be treated on an equal footing in the other 26 member states, that the energy suppliers in the other 26 markets are given new opportunities, is also an essential feature of this regulation, so that completely new opportunities are created here. and also the legislation on passive houses, on active houses: the fact that we are careful about our building efficiency gives hope for the future that new jobs will be created here as well.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. thank you, mr president. i would like to congratulate in particular the rapporteur, mrs vălean, but also commissioner reding, who has been very committed in negotiating the roaming ii regulation. i believe that this negotiation and, of course, the objective of bringing national prices into line with those we pay in the other european countries, has made a significant step forward. it is also good that the national regulatory authorities now have additional responsibility for roaming, and that they are taking over control and monitoring functions which simply bring us more transparency. transparency is the most important thing for the functioning of a market. so far, there has been a lack of transparency in many areas, but also clear and obvious market abuse. if data roaming often required a thousand times more, that is not correct. second-counting in in-depth conversations will also bring significant progress and cost benefits for europe's citizens in the future.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it is my honour to thank you. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. secondly, i would like to thank the excellent secretariat which has supported us over the last few years. i can only wish those who come after us such employees. what i do not understand, mr president, is something else. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the discharge for the 2007 financial year. if we do not exercise the rights of parliament, who will then take us seriously in public and vote on 7 june, when we are exercising the strongest right this parliament has? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to monitor the way in which the over 100 billion euro was spent in 2007. if we don't talk about facts, we're going to have to talk about rumors. mr ferber has already touched on this point. we must build this europe on facts, we need the cooperation and the constructive ideas that we have developed in recent years. it's no wonder that at the end of this period, we actually also developed the greatest creativity and the greatest clarity in this period. it is partly because of the people who have acted, whom i congratulate, but it is also because we have become clear about a number of things, namely what control ultimately means for the european taxpayer. we should know that we are going beyond this one year, 2007. of course, we know that there were some developments that we have partially stopped. i'm very grateful for what costas said. we have created an assistant statute during this period. we were beaten up for this a few years ago. we have created a statute for members of parliament. we were beaten for that too. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a european model. this is sometimes a little difficult and, especially during election campaigns, sometimes difficult to explain. i am very grateful to all those who resisted the temptations of the coming election campaign and said: we will stick to the facts, we are also prepared to explain these facts to our colleagues and to the voters. mr kallas, i would like to add one more point, because we shall be discussing this in the discharge for audy, which i very much welcome. it's a fake bank charge. the commission has been negligent for years in calculating the gross domestic product of the european union in order to put the gnp, which is actually required, on a proper footing. this is costing several member states many millions of euros. we've been over it. i hope you or your successors will clean it up accordingly. mr president, i am very grateful for this great work done by my committee, and you know that tomorrow we will be recommending a non-discharge. i am very pleased to be chairman of this committee! thank you so much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the present proposal is to be welcomed. i thank commissioner piebalgs, and commissioner palacio before you has also seen that it is important to think about security and i believe that improving the independence of national regulators is important. if everyone in the other countries were as independent as the regulator in france, that would be a great step forward. it would be even better, of course, if there were a european regulator who could take dangerous nuclear power stations off the grid in a peer review. it is also important to have strict mandatory safety standards and to ensure that the european regulator implements the shutdown. the safety and security of the population is of the utmost importance to public health and we fully support it. we need to do more here in the future.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the members who have remained for this matter, which is much more important than is being expressed by the presence of members here. it is about the revision of the transport policy in relation to the transeuropean networks. i would like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this, in particular the commission and the secretariat, who have given us very good support. the transeuropean networks have a long history. for 15 years, projects were presented, lists were discussed and decisions were postponed. this was and is an opportunity to look at the whole story more closely, to revise it and to see how far the objectives have been achieved and can be achieved. the transeuropean networks have not always been successful. this is also due to money, as is often the case in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when it comes to the decision on the allocation of the union budget, the bag is tight and little is spent. now that nothing is coming out of nowhere, many projects have also been left in the dust, and it is necessary to look at this again, especially in the light of the new challenges we are facing in terms of transport policy in the union as a whole. on the one hand, we are facing new challenges brought about by climate change. we have to respond. the question of sustainability in transport, the question of the climate impact of certain modes of transport, must be asked again and again and must also be reflected in the actions of the member states and the european union. the second point which is of course of great concern to us is the present financial crisis, which may further limit the capacity of some member states to act in the area of infrastructure and the related investment required. but enlargement also means that we are faced with entirely new tasks in europe that did not exist when the list of transeuropean networks was decided. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work. firstly, the various modes of transport should be much better connected than they are today. that's been a problem in the past. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of transport operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, the development of a european network of road haulage operators, and the development of a european network of road haulage operators. this is about software, not just hardware. this is the focus of our report and i hope that we can agree on this resolution, which has had broad support, and that there will be no backsliding as is suggested in an alternative resolution at the moment!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the economic and financial crisis, the worst since world war ii, has global repercussions. the loss of confidence, the uncertainty, the impatience and the helplessness are palpable. the gaps in financial market regulation are visible. the need to adopt common european responses and to take a leading role in the world is a motivating factor. the need to create more europe makes possible things which were rejected and prevented by the commission and council members months ago in the face of parliament's demands. our model of the social market economy - as much market as possible, as much regulation as necessary - provides the regulatory framework not only for european but also for all global regulations. the european union is succeeding, but we are far from finished and have not reached our goal. another stage is completed, and other chapters must be entered or completed quickly. only determination and courage to adopt bold european rules can build confidence. and we are deciding today - much too late - on the regulation of the rating agencies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are adopting the solvency directive - we would have to do that even without the financial market crisis. we should be adopting the banking directive in may. we must finally eliminate the procyclical effects from existing regulations. hedge funds, like private equity investments, need regulation. all manager salaries that include a bonus component also require a loss component. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. we should organise them in the same way as the european central banks and make as many decisions as possible before the summer. i invite you to join me.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the european union's accession to the alpine convention's transport protocol is a small but delicate stepping stone towards a new transport policy in europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. but we add to this the concerns of the people and the environment along the routes. this is an important signal. we austrians feel that, after 15 years of participation in this european union, we have been able to confirm that we have brought many of these concerns into the common europe and that this has been the reason for europe to take these concerns on board. thank you to all the colleagues who have contributed to this!
mr president, i just want to say that i will not be taking part in this vote.
in writing. − mobile telephony is now part of everyday life, and the telephone has become a constant companion for large sections of the population. whether you use it professionally or privately is of minor importance. in any case, any type of communication, whether it is calling, mms, sms, internet or surfing, involves costs that the operator charges the customer. it is clear that these costs are higher in a foreign network - that is, not in the operator's home network. since the beginning of international mobile telephony, however, these roaming charges have been used to disproportionately increase the cost of the service. consumers were sometimes forced to accept outrageous invoices without a commonly accepted calculation. with this initiative, which not only makes the jungle of tariffs easier to manage for the individual citizen but also standardizes costs, the union has finally done something for the benefit of the people of europe. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. − the ppp delegation supports the creation of an independent nuclear power plant inspectorate with the legally binding ability to take dangerous nuclear power plants off the grid.
in writing. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of asylum seekers and refugees. the third world would see the doors to europe open wide. if the vision of the multiculturalists is to be achieved, the concept of family should be extended so that whole clans can migrate without any problems. the commission has also proposed to restrict the possibility of asylum seekers to seek work, to give asylum seekers access to the labour market and to extend basic social security. this would put even more pressure on the domestic labour market, especially in times of economic crisis, and would put a heavy strain on the taxpayers. the present report can only be rejected on these grounds.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the italian colleagues rightly considered this debate to be of great importance for their country and took the floor. it is also a debate for us europeans. we are in a common european union. we are glad that we have the possibilities of the solidarity fund and we would like it to be used as targetedly as possible by the italian government and the regional authorities. we would like to express our condolences once again to all the victims - and there are many victims - and we hope that europe can help us to find a solution as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking as a fervent pro-european and i am convinced that we are experiencing a lesson in non-eu democracy. the fact that the council does not feel it is necessary to respond in any acceptable way to the very clear objections of the european parliament shows that all the critics of the eu and also those who now reject the institution are unfortunately right, because we are massively disregarding the very basic principles on which a democracy should be built. because we allow treaty after treaty that in reality the power center remains completely uncontrolled, that this council and this proof is obtainable is lazy and incompetent, and essentially works in secret. the reason for this is that it can be shown that the majority of ministers - those who take the really important decisions for europe behind closed doors - are often not even present and that the most important decisions are taken by civil servants. that was the case in austria until 1848, and then it got a little better. this is not democracy. it is the council which does not even want to give access to the items on the agenda. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this. it's just a little bit of a stretch. those who are actually more important in terms of legislation than we are here in parliament, they do not come and leave the presence to others. it is then claimed that there is more transparency in the council. in reality, there is less transparency in the council since the eu council decision of 2006. only one item of the 130 items on the agenda of the main council, namely that of the foreign minister, was dealt with publicly in 2008. everything else is in camera secreta. everything else is less transparent than the mafia. then we come to the use of funds. where are the millions going? why does the council refuse to do so? what about a secret service that is constantly expanding under the direction of javier solana? the one operating from spain, where it is admitted that there is, of course, an eu intelligence service. where does the money go? how corrupt are these people and how opaque?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two points for this committee: i congratulate the rapporteur. he asked simple questions and got no answers. i congratulate the committee on the rules of procedure and petitions on its overwhelming approval of the report by mr søndergaard. the member states are conspicuously absent today, although we - mr president, i would remind you - have this item on the agenda this afternoon because we wanted to meet the council's deadline problems. the member states are doing things here that they would not dare to do at home. we are now going to go into an election campaign where things are put back to brussels. the problems are in the capitals, not in brussels! i would sometimes like to see the commission on our side a little more strongly. i think she's a little too cowardly sometimes. the report also calls for the establishment of a european statistical office, which would be able to monitor the implementation of the budget. this isn't going to work for long. it was the task of this committee - and i am proud that it did so with such a large majority - to warn against this development. i believe - and i take this as a positive sign if the house follows us tomorrow with an equally large majority - that we have made sure that controls are actually working. there's someone who'll take care of it! and then we'll look at the consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a personal remark in accordance with rule 149, formerly rule 145. i was called by name. i was accused of making nonsensical remarks. i reject that with great determination. the data are all documented. in fact, in the important foreign ministers' committees and other council bodies, the specialist councils of ministers, officials often take the decisions because the ministers for whatever reason do not arrive. sometimes it's proven that they prefer party conventions. it is also true that - what might have been referred to - a chairman whose private affairs should finally be examined has said things that cannot be allowed to stand, that there is no parliamentary control, that there are no controls for the various security systems that have been developed accordingly, i.e. intelligence areas. i'd like to say that the intelligence division int, with its 30 employees... (the president interrupted the speaker and called for order.)
then i would just like to personally challenge mr. von wogau again, as far as his firm is concerned, to be open about who you do business with and who you profit from. let's talk about it then.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to say that it would have been good if mr václav klaus had commented on the allegations that have already been made when he was here in the plenary. this would certainly have helped to put the division of powers, which works very well at european level, in the right light. secondly, i would object to the council being put on a par with the mafia. that is something that cannot be said in a proper democracy! i also believe that the national audit bodies could have a chance to work more closely with the european court of justice. the council's role in this area is of course to ensure that national parliaments exercise control and that this is done regularly. secondly, it is of course also crucial that the european court of auditors analyses these operations in detail and provides the necessary documentation. i believe that the very transparency we are calling for here is also justified by the treaty of lisbon and that is why we must press hard for the treaty of lisbon to be concluded as quickly as possible.
chairman of the cont committee. the commission is not i should like to comment briefly on what mr von wogau said. mr von wogau, you may have a committee here that is having very interesting discussions about future projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you can tell us what is happening to the black accounts of the council, then tell us! i'm sure you don't know, and i'm sure we don't know. but in the discharge we take full responsibility for what the council has done or has not done. this isn't a nursery school! if we don't know what they did, we can't take responsibility, or we'll make a fool of ourselves in the world. everyone is free to do that tomorrow. i'm going to recommend that you not grant the discharge, but postpone it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not passenger rights must become a central point in all transport policy, especially in the european union. we've already made it by train and by air. but there is a lot of room for improvement here. i have to say it again and again, the problems are far too big. one group is particularly dependent on clear regulations. it has been shown in the air transport sector that these regulations were not clear enough. people with special needs could write books about what happened to them on their travels. i myself have received some reports from them. it's a disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of equal opportunities for men and women. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport of dangerous goods is not subject to the same rules as those applied to road transport. but this will have to be solved in the future on a practical basis. secondly, to include as much as possible in bus traffic. with many exceptions, we create the possibility of circumventing regulations. we cannot continue to put at a disadvantage those who are already struggling with special needs by making them more difficult. it is our duty to recognise their right to mobility and ultimately to enforce it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. service companies are there for those who want to use these services, not primarily for the service providers. it is therefore important that we make arrangements for users of all modes of transport and ensure that they receive what they use in the quality they require. in this context it is very important - and i am only taking up one point that has been raised repeatedly - that we also take a special interest in the rights of people with reduced mobility. for me, this is a topic that has almost become perpetual motion. let me say that not only is a person with a disability card a disabled person, but parents, adults with small children, on all our transport means, need the support of our rules. i hope that will be the case in some form. secondly, the best rules and safeguards are of no use if the information about them is hidden in the back of the bus company. information on passenger rights is something that goes right to the switch, that goes right to the buses, to the planes and so on. the third and final point is that we have begun to regulate the issue of air passenger rights in the interests of passengers. we were too generous here then. the airlines' behaviour, particularly in relation to the issue of delays, with the statement: the last plane arrived too late. that's why the next one can only start late. that's something that's no longer acceptable. we should have settled the matter with high financial compensation then, and then an effect similar to that of denied boarding would have been achieved. unfortunately, this effect is not achieved now. it's not like it's a force majeure to let a plane go down when it's half empty. there are many tasks for the next commission. mr president, if you are to take over this department in the next commission, i would urge that the rights of passengers in airplanes and in air transport be revised. it is urgent.
- i'm not sure. i would be interested to know what your view is of the relative market power exercised by such forms of distribution. when do you see such market power coming, and how would you react to it?
i would like to know under what rule the equity replacement loans are actually seen in this context.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not yes, we have a problem with copyright, and we have a problem with the remuneration of artists. that is right, and we must take action and do something about it. but when we do, it's about responding to the challenges of the digital age, not saddling dead horses. let me explain why i'm coming to this picture. the proposal actually fulfils only one promise, and that is to promote the music industry. because if we look at what happens to the artists themselves and what happens to their income, and we do the math, we end up with such low averages that it's not really a living for an artist to make something out of it. and besides, this money doesn't go directly to the artists. the fund is too small to achieve anything. an artist i was discussing this with told me that this is where the redistribution from the living to the dead is taking place. i had to disagree with him, because it's a redistribution from the artists to the producers, to the music industry, and only to the big guys. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we'll have to find better ones. we need to create something like a flat rate. the proposals you make regarding the use-it-or-lose-it clause also remain theoretical. please let us do something smart and thoughtful, as the artists recommended and requested in our hearing in the legal affairs committee.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i regret, with rapporteur gilles savary, that the commission has not followed up its original plan for an integrated action plan. there are many good reasons why everyone involved - from local authorities to the european union - should strive to improve urban transport. we know that most people in europe live in cities and that the current transport conditions are far from optimal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i thank him for his commitment and also for the concrete proposals. but at the same time i want to make it very clear that what many fear or think they should fear will not happen. no one wants to take away the right of local and regional authorities to manage their own transport. we are simply trying to help on the european side to ensure that reasonable common rules are applied here, if a municipality, a city or a regional unit deems this reasonable. the principle of subsidiarity is not jeopardized. what we are doing here is to protect that principle. we will therefore continue to work in the interests of the citizens to ensure that when they continue driving in europe for 10 or 20 kilometres they do not encounter a traffic-free zone which they think they know from their home community and where they find completely different rules. no one wants to impose any city tolls or other regulations on the municipalities, but if they are actually used here, then they should also be made within a framework that is recognizable to the citizens. for more than 100 years we have agreed on the usefulness of common approaches to road signs. this should be the case in future on this subject.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. pension, unemployment or health insurance almost 25 years after the entry into force of the schengen agreement, social security is still far behind. vacationers are often shamelessly exploited, forced to pay outrageously high local bills, which are then not reimbursed or only partially reimbursed when they return to their eu home country. the european health insurance card is unfortunately not accepted sometimes, and the clearing of payments between member states is not really working either. but in times of tight budgets, the patient must be put more at the centre of health care. in this sense, of course, we must strengthen the rights of patients. however, it is doubtful whether the patient will then be able to obtain prior authorisation for reimbursement of hospital costs in the event of a medical emergency. if we continue to cut back on medical staff under cost pressure, then i think our health system is going in the wrong direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. the recent agreement on improving patient mobility is overall welcome. in the spirit of a genuine free movement of persons, simplifying the crossborder use of health services is an important step. the economic benefits of more specialised clinics are also to be found. the positive aspects, however, must not be overlooked, as well as the enormous challenges of better interconnection of national systems. the first thing we need is more certainty on the question of costs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cost of treatment is not passed on to the patient. the system of set-off rules must also be defined precisely and take account of national circumstances. in addition, home care must be secure and should not be at the expense of increased patient mobility. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. looking ahead, cross-border access to healthcare is another milestone on the road to european integration. however, the implementation must be strictly monitored to ensure that improved patient mobility does not become hospital tourism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a private institution. i would like to express my support for mr cohn-bendit's motion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. it starts with andreas mölzer of the radical right and goes through paul rübig of the conservatives, herbert bösch, chairman of the budget control committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this second amendment is quite possible as an addition. that's not a contradiction. they're not mutually exclusive. (disturbance in the hall)
in writing. - if we now close grey areas in the financial markets and impose stricter regulations, it is long overdue. however, we are only treating the symptoms, not the causes. the deregulation of recent years has created new capital market products, which are complex and opaque. i have voted in favour of stricter financial supervision, although this will not be enough on its own. the only way to prevent the creation of such card houses in the future is to ban the risky financial products themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected.
in writing. − at present, freight transport is largely concentrated on road transport, with the shares of rail, water and air transport declining. in times of ever-tightening margins and extreme competitive pressures, truck overtaking, combined with driver fatigue and overload, creates a lethal cocktail of hazards. in addition to the risk of accidents, the tendency for goods traffic to collapse is also unsustainable in terms of congestion, noise and pollution. it's about time we got this rail transfer going. but to do this we will need better technical solutions and logistical concepts for coordination and organizational networking. the present report is a step in that direction, which is why i voted in favour of it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the summit was a political success and sends an important message: the world is coming together, the political will is there to find and implement together global responses to the crises and challenges. however, i want to make it very clear that we should not exaggerate the summit stagings. the summits only adopt declarations of intent, they do not take decisions, they are not legislators, they have no legal basis. the european union has been called for many times. we must have the ambition to take a leading role in the construction of a global financial and economic order. but we can only play a pioneering role if we have european regulations and can offer models. we are on the right track with our social market economy model, with the deposit guarantee, with the regulation adopted today for the rating agencies. the results of the summit, for example, do not provide me with a clear agreement on the elimination of the procyclical effects of existing regulations at european and global level, the keyword being basel ii. we have a lot of work to do: hedge funds, executive salaries, banking policy, european supervision - to name a few. we are the continent's spokesman through the commission. nevertheless, the nation states are also represented. community interests are at the same time national interests on the world stage. that can be an opportunity, but it can also be a weakness. this is why coordination is particularly important. if our representatives do not pull together, we are weakened on the global stage. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. the summit alone provides a way. he's not the result yet.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can connect to it seamlessly. it is a tragedy that what mrs lucas said is not acceptable on this continent. if it were, we would be in a much better position and could look the future generations in the face. but we can't do it like this. i must warn you that in the debate on the financial catastrophe and the elimination of the looming or already real climate catastrophe, much reminds me of the period after the second world war in the german bundestag. there are also many members of parliament and many politicians who do not want to know what happened before 1945. it was only gradually that they had to face it. but that's the point: without dealing with the past, seeing your mistakes and looking to the future, there can be no forward. the eu and especially the political actors have failed dramatically in the financial crisis. they need to learn the consequences of that and learn what they did wrong.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very grateful for this debate today, because it shows that europe, with its 27 member states and 500 million citizens, is a force beyond its borders. many citizens in moldova have recognized the importance of the separation of powers, of developing a basic democratic understanding and of fighting for it. it is not a given that you stand up for democracy today, that you can express your beliefs in public and not be imprisoned or repressed for doing so. i therefore believe - and i very much want to support the commissioner here - that europe should use everything we have at our disposal in the fight for individual freedom, for a free press and for a well-established democracy.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs on behalf of the socialist group. here again very good reports have been produced which will have wide support. i would like to take up what commissioner rehn said, because that seems to me to be the most important message in today's debate, namely that the process of integration, of rapprochement between the countries of south-east europe, must not be interrupted, not only in the interests of those countries but also in our own interests. the commissioner said that the commission must be realistic. perhaps we could be a little more idealistic in this parliament. but ultimately, we too must be realistic. it is a long and difficult road, and the goal will not be reached overnight. so the comments i hear from one side or the other are: 'let's add croatia and then we'll be done for a while' is the wrong signal. all that mrs doris pack has asked for and rightly asks for will not be met if the people there feel that they are not wanted in this european union anyway and that their accession will be delayed far too long anyway. the second point is that we are very clear that the bilateral problems which are of concern to us now, at least the procedure, the procedure for resolving bilateral issues, should be dealt with in future before negotiations are opened, so that this does not burden the whole negotiation process. thirdly, what the prime minister said is also very important. we cannot do the work of the people and the politicians in the country ourselves. the people in the countries themselves must do that. the political forces must - as doris pack said - solve their own problems. the way to the european union is then open, and the way must depend on the performance of those countries and not on our willingness. we must be ready.
mr president of the council! i believe that the czech presidency is taking a very positive and active approach to this issue. i would like to congratulate you on this, because it is of course about protecting citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises so that when they work, they can also save their income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would therefore ask you: do you think that the european court of justice could set standards in this area?
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say, in connection with the planning of the sitting, that we voted for a very long time yesterday and that this has led to major problems with subsequent dates. we are very close to finishing today and we shall not begin the vote until noon today. maybe it would be possible from a planning point of view to make it so that it's a little bit more divided. that would help the members, but above all the visitors who had to wait for us for an exorbitant amount of time yesterday. these are citizens who also have a right to speak to their members, and i would therefore welcome it if the agenda for future sittings planned such events in such a way that this could happen to everyone's satisfaction.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. afghanistan has a difficult history. i believe that the families there are very strong and that the woman plays an important role in the family. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and of course, we also need modern infrastructure to help the country develop better. i believe that infrastructure projects in particular could help to create greater understanding of each other here, and that, of course, also through the means of information and communication technology, a different worldview could gradually take place there, while fully preserving identity.
madam president, i should like to draw your attention to the following: behind me, in the area of the extreme right, there are people who are not members of parliament, and as far as i can see, they are very likely to be using the ballot box. (thunder)
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i wonder if there's any statistics on respirators. how many such masks are there in europe and how many could be produced in the event of an outbreak of such a disease? the same applies, of course, to medicines: is there any indication of how many medicines are currently stocked in europe and how many could be produced if the disease were to spread? do you think it would be possible to provide information for doctors in the 23 european languages, so that competent and rapid information is guaranteed?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. the pollution of the seas is always the subject of attention only when there is another spectacular incident, and then there is also a heated debate about the threat to our seas from this continuing pollution. unfortunately, in the meantime, this is often very much in the background. the constant and repeated violations, which contribute equally and dramatically to the threat not only to our seas but also to our coasts, were to be taken seriously. i would like to thank my colleagues with whom we have had the opportunity to discuss this, for all of us having consistently taken the line that our oceans must be protected. i speak as a member of a landlocked country. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only recommend to my colleague that he not stand for re-election to this parliament, then he has done his job well. i would like to thank commissioner reding and the czech presidency of the council very warmly for taking another big step for the citizens of europe together with our rapporteurs. the idea of the internal market is bringing great progress for citizens, particularly in the telecommunications sector and in all areas where we used to have to deal with monopoly administrations. we have already seen in the regulation of roaming that it is possible to make large savings for households and to protect citizens. in particular, market access for small and mediumsized enterprises is a very important prerequisite for providing a good service, for implementing net neutrality and, of course, for empowering independent regulators in national states to represent their industry and their enterprises, but also their consumers in other european countries. the enforcement of the rights of nationals of a nation state in other member states is of particular importance to small and mediumsized enterprises, and we should be working here to ensure that broadband continues to be used for the benefit of the population and that prices are reduced, because we have completely new possibilities for using broadband in the context of the very dynamic development of broadband services and the internet, especially in the area of telephony. i am therefore grateful that the gsm900 frequency is now also available for umts and that for the first time there has been a thought about the fourth generation network, which hopefully will continue to receive follow-up support from the commission, so that we have a comprehensive support for broadband provision, especially in rural areas. the consumer protection is also very well regulated in this legislation: the fact that the courts are committed to applying the convention on the protection of human rights accordingly is a great step forward, so that in this area we have a great opportunity to be able to use the internet without restrictions and without hindrance, but at the same time have the protection that courts decide on this if there are restrictions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking all those involved for their important work. i know that the committee, and in particular mrs trautmann, has shown great commitment to two objectives: on the one hand, to lay the foundations for modernisation, for the further technological revolution in europe in the sense of creating new jobs, in the sense also of the competitiveness of our continent - this is also a major contribution to lisbon which is being made here - and on the other hand, to protect the rights of consumers, which have been mentioned here on several occasions. i believe that both objectives have been successfully achieved. the release of certain frequencies in the future, as we move to the digital system, creates more opportunities, creates more innovation. here too, a major contribution is being made to an innovative society, and for this i would like to thank you very much! of course, there were some tricky questions. as someone who is very active on the internet and blogs and is active on facebook and twitter, i know that there are some problems here too. i am of the opinion that we should not intervene without a judicial decision. it would not only be wrong in itself, it would also send the wrong signal, especially to our young people, who frequent the internet and make extensive use of these modern means of communication. i am therefore very pleased that, among other things, the recitals clearly state that we are not prepared to accept criminal activity, but we are also not prepared to accept intervention without a judicial decision, without a legal basis. i think that is a fundamental principle that must be respected. i am very grateful to mrs trautmann and to all the others for standing up and for having drawn a clear line.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask you what rule of procedure allows the political groups to amend their voting lists with your consent. this is an abuse of the parliamentary independence of the individual member!
in writing. − it provides for the budgeting of public debates on the lisbon treaty in all languages, but does not accept the 'no' vote on the reformed eu constitution and avoids referendums. and while the eu's own websites extol the importance of multilingualism, this is not reflected in the design of the eu's own web presence. the three working languages, german, english and french, which could be used to reach a large part of the population, are not used throughout the programme. the presidency of the council does not think it is worth the effort either. the eu is now racking its brains about access to its documents, but at the same time it wants to remove eu notices in national newspapers and thus in all mother tongues. the report does, however, contain some good ideas for improving access to documents, which is why i voted in favour of it.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking you, mr alexandr vondra, for your personal commitment, because it was only through your personal commitment that we were able to pass some very important legislative packages during the czech presidency. i thank you very much for that. i would like to add my voice to what you have said. the commission is being reappointed. you said you would consult parliament. i can give you or the council a piece of advice today: you know very well, and president barroso knows it too, that we want a change of course! we want a change of course, we want a commission which pays more attention to social matters than has been the case so far! unfortunately, mr president of the commission, what mr mccreevy has put forward on hedge funds is not what poul nyrup rasmussen has proposed and what we can accept. the epp seems to be behind this. we are not in favour of such a directive, which is based on the principle of swiss cheese, i.e. more holes than substance. we can't trust mccreevy in this place! i would like to return to your consultation, which, as i said, you could have had today. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we believe that they must also give a candidate the confidence and the empowerment to put social strength at the forefront. and so that it is not just abstract: we as the socialist group have set the record straight in a position paper entitled 'for a europe of social progress'. this ranges from the amendment of the posting of workers directive to a social protocol which, in addition to the treaties, in addition to lisbon, should also clearly set out the social dimension of this europe. and that is different, mr daul, from the document the epp adopted recently in warsaw. if you compare the two papers, there's a big difference! we are clearly committed to the social market economy, and 'social' is underlined three times. the epp's paper focuses on the social market economy and on the free, unfettered and unregulated market economy. that is not what we want, and that is precisely the difference between the european people's party and our group. let me also say a few words about the economic situation you mentioned. poul nyrup rasmussen will state this clearly and unambiguously. in addition to this activity, which martin schulz is currently promoting and promoting throughout europe, i would also like to make it clear that i am sorry for the way i have treated you. the economic crisis has again shown that the lack of economic policy coordination, for which not only the commission but also the council are responsible, is partly responsible for the weak way in which we have dealt with this crisis. the crisis would have come to us anyway, but the fact that we do not have enough instruments to deal with it, that we have not yet made any progress on the euro-funds, is something that is deeply troubling to us. the last point i would like to mention, because it particularly concerns me, is the rise in youth unemployment. commissioner vladimir špidla has said very clearly: now a generation of young people is entering the labour market, and what are they experiencing? high youth unemployment! so we all have to do something about it! all of us together, the council, the commission and the governments, must do everything we can to ensure that the first thing young people experience on the labour market is not unemployment but training and further training, so that they are better prepared for the labour market. we must send this message to the young people together, because this is very important, also for the social stability of our society.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we are now debating three reports. the european people's party has been the rapporteur on two reports and the greens on one. i say this because it makes it clear that the pse does not have a monopoly on social policy issues, but that these issues concern us all. i would like to thank, as vice-chairman of the group of the european people's party, mr silva peneda and mr gabriele stauner for their work, because they are credible representatives of the european social and living model of the social market economy and important exponents of a deepened social dialogue within our group. these reports are intended to ensure that the european union's policies can respond effectively to economic and social challenges. they aim to give more people opportunities, improve access to quality services and show solidarity with those negatively affected by change. we must also make the majority in our own country capable of doing everything we want from the community, because we do not have the necessary competence to do everything that people expect from us. i am not saying that we should not be doing everything in the field of social policy. the treaty of lisbon is a major step forward. full employment is the goal, the sustainable social market economy is the european social and economic model, and fundamental social rights are enshrined. we have not only too little expertise on the one hand, but we also have too little money on the other. i therefore call on the commission to present a proposal for a financial transaction tax by the end of the year, to set up a concrete european initiative with two objectives. the first is to use the proceeds in a way that creates sustainable jobs, because anything that creates jobs creates social stability and security. secondly, to put a clear european project on the table for the g20 summit in the spring. now workers who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis can also be supported, and we have increased co-financing to 65%. what would the present look like without our european social model, even though it is capable of improvement? we have to strengthen it! the european union must also take action to combat poverty by strengthening fundamental labour rights by establishing minimum standards for workers' rights, by combating discrimination, by strengthening social cohesion, by modernising social security systems, by combating poverty, by promoting the transition to self-employment, by strengthening the structural funds. we're making progress, but we still have a lot of work to do.
the commission has already done so. i am opposed to the introduction of new taxes on principle. this is particularly true of small and mediumsized enterprises. this affects the ownership of property and does not encourage investment. but in the context of short-term stock gains, you have to think about taxes. can you imagine such taxes on short-term stock gains through short selling being used purposely to create new jobs?
the commission has already done so. in conjunction with the seismic line through the apennines, there is another seismic line that runs through slovenia. on this earthquake line is the krško nuclear power plant, as you may know. on our initiative, some warning systems have been installed there. what measures will you take after this devastating earthquake in italy to ensure the safety of the krško nuclear power station, which is on a seismic line connected to it? do you also think that you will take precautions that go as far as krško could also be closed?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, on the nuclear package you have just presented, which concerns in particular new nuclear power stations, and on the proposal that iaea standards should also be binding in the future. i 'd be interested in the following: do you think that in the next parliamentary term you will be able to put forward a proposal for an eu regulatory authority or for the upgrading of wenra as a binding organisation, and that perhaps we could also make the iaea standards binding on all member states?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i'm so glad to see you again today. in all my years in politics - whether in austria or in the last 15 years in the european parliament - the debate on wine has always been very emotional. and today, it's the same again. in my opinion, wine is one of the most elegant products produced by agriculture. and so it is also in the interest of quality production by european and especially austrian winegrowers that the quality and distinctiveness of the wine from the different regions really prevail here. we are of the opinion that blending wines is not an oenological process. rosé wine is produced using a special, very traditional oenological process. i therefore support all those colleagues who, like me, oppose the mixing or blending of white and red wine. there must be a clear definition of the production of traditional rosé wines. commissioner, it must also be possible for member states, as you have mentioned, to gain insight, so that they then change their views or revise some decisions. i would therefore ask you very much, in the interests of the quality of european wine production!
the commission has already done so. i would also like to add my voice to the commissioner's condolences to the families of the victims of the cruel attack. i would also like to express my support for all the efforts and aspirations of turkey towards democracy. you are certainly keen to bring turkey closer to the european union - not in, but closer to the european union! i also believe that we must adopt a policy of 'zero tolerance' and adopt particularly high standards, particularly in the field of human rights and democratisation. the examples given by the honourable members speak for themselves, and we can see that turkey still has a very, very long way to go to reach the eu standard. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the protection of the environment. the system in turkey is still characterized by the absence of a clear separation of powers between the various state powers, and this is the reason for the many problems we are now seeing in turkish political life. unfortunately, we must also say that the list of unresolved problems has become rather longer than shorter. i would also like to mention the parliamentary rights: the budgetary deficit in the area of parliamentary control of military expenditure is particularly large. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the immunity of individual members is also very, very unclearly regulated. turkey needs to be heavily repaired here. unfortunately, turkey has also not signed various european and international agreements, such as the convention against torture. i believe that turkey should really set a good example and meet european and international standards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it seems that christmas peace has almost broken out, so peaceful is everything here. but i'm allowed to bring a few drops of wormwood into this situation! the council - and it is not here today - has spent months reviewing, considering and reaching a solution to the commission's proposals. and this in a situation where we have high, rising unemployment. so it is not parliament's fault - in this case the budgetary people were even ahead of us in the energy sector, which has not made our lives quite easy otherwise, you are usually always the blockers, but then we tried to find a solution. and the commissioner was very helpful. but the council was stubborn! our concern is - and this should be taken for granted - that all the funds from the eu budget that cannot be spent should be used for job creation projects, projects aimed at energy security, energy efficiency and energy saving. this should be taken for granted! if we ask the citizens whether they are in favour of the money not being spent going to these areas, they will overwhelmingly agree. only the council has not yet realised that this is the order of the day. in this sense, we should insist - and the members of the new parliament should insist - that this is indeed the way it is implemented. i hope - i do not know whether mr piebalgs will still be commissioner and responsible for this area - that the commission also believes that we must ensure that all the funds which cannot be spent are transferred to employment-oriented projects in other areas relating to energy efficiency and energy security. i would like to conclude by thanking the two commissioners for their cooperation on behalf of my group. whether it was always a pleasure is another question, but there was always a clear willingness to dialogue with you, and i hope you can say the same about us. we have an election campaign, things are a bit quieter for you now, but i think you can live without us parliamentarians.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mrs stavreva, who has written a very good report. it is essential that this economic programme, which we are adopting today as a whole, should also be available to rural areas. broadband is an indispensable means of communication for rural regions, especially in austria, for new and modern jobs and for rapid information. it should not be overlooked that more than 50% of the population of the european union lives in rural areas. ladies and gentlemen, i'm quitting my political career. i would like to thank all my colleagues, but also the commission and all the institutions of the european union, and especially the officials and staff, for the good cooperation they have shown. finally, i would like to thank the interpreters who had to translate my austrian german. i am convinced that it must be clear that the common agricultural policy, with its two pillars, is indispensable for the european union's society. the farmers are certainly aware of their responsibility to society. but i also expect european union society to be aware of its responsibility towards those who provide its livelihood. in this sense, i wish the european union a good future! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the european union has introduced support for rural areas, but at the same time the flight to the countryside has been fuelled by the unlimited zeal for liberalisation and the consequent dismantling of rural infrastructure as a result of the maastricht criteria. after the chrysler demise and the closure of police stations and schools, post offices will soon be closed, thanks to eu deregulation. the commission now seems to want to continue providing euthanasia. if the criteria of below-average economic strength and rural exodus were to be dropped from 2014, this could be a death knell for many disadvantaged areas. i think this is an attack on all the rural regions which we should not allow to pass. we need equal living conditions in the city and in the countryside, otherwise europe will soon be deserted, not just by individual land parcels, but by whole valleys. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rural areas cannot be kept alive by agricultural subsidies alone. the deaths of farmers in recent years are more than a clear proof of this. the aid for less-favoured areas should not be reduced but increased. small, medium and organic farmers must survive and food sovereignty must be maintained. if the eu is not soon to be deterred from promoting primarily mass livestock farming and large landowners such as the british queen , then it is high time for a renationalisation or at least a partial renationalisation of agriculture.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank commissioners fischer boel and piebalgs. a good sign: agriculture and energy on a bank of common strength. the same applies to the members of parliament, mr schierhuber and mr karas, who are throwing themselves on the tracks, so to speak, for agriculture and small and mediumsized enterprises. that's a good sign. the debate on the five billion shows that we are on the right track and that we are primarily concerned with strengthening the purchasing power of rural areas. it is a priority challenge, especially at a time of economic and financial crisis, that we do not send the money we need for energy to the russian oligarchs or the oil magnates, but that we keep the money in europe and strengthen the rural areas accordingly. i would like to congratulate you on this initiative and i am particularly pleased that we can decide this today.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the opportunity today to present to you not only the outcome of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, but the outcome of lengthy negotiations with the council and the commission, where we agreed last week in a trilogue on a common approach to the re-design of the financial market framework. i say to you, i ask you, to look at these proposals we are debating today as an overall package, because some of us wanted more, some of us wanted less, in this house, in the council and in the commission. i can tell you that we have not agreed on the lowest common denominator but have made an attempt to agree on more than the highest common denominator. and we've set the line for the next steps, because it can only be a first step. we are not done with the response to the financial and economic crisis! but we are taking a new step, a breakthrough towards the re-design of the financial market framework, which leads to a simplification of financial market regulation and to a europeanisation which creates security in the financial market, stability for all market participants, which is a further development of the financial market and is a response to the financial crisis and secures the decentralised sector. i would like to thank mrs berès and mrs bowles and the other groups for their support, and especially the secretariat and all the staff. this proposal will lead to more transparency, more legal certainty and more stability, and will therefore create more confidence in times of loss of confidence. it is not the only piece of legislation we are proposing! we have already decided at the last plenary session on the regulation of credit rating agencies, we have decided on the new supervisory structures of the insurance sector, the commission has put forward a new proposal for hedge funds. it is another package that we are pioneering. the commission has already made a number of proposals. here we have strengthened the role of ceps and that of the european central bank, and strengthened the balance between home and host supervisors as a first step. the second step is that we now need to achieve a stronger european integration of financial market supervision. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european supervisory authority. the second area is securitisation, the passing on of loans. here we introduce for the first time that a loan can only be passed on if the lender keeps a deductible in its own books. we have once provided for a minimum of 5%, but we have instructed ceps to examine whether an increase is sensible and to publish the result in a review by the commission by the end of the year, taking into account international developments. this is an important signal to the market: without a reserve, nothing works! the reservation leads to transparency, the reservation also leads to better control! thirdly, we have regulated the granting of large loans in terms of the ratio of own resources to risk. no large loan may represent more than 25% of a bank's equity. and when it comes to the granting of loans between the banks, the sum must not exceed 150 million euros. the fourth point is: we are dealing with a stronger quality of equity and hybrid capital. but here we are taking account of the existing legal arrangements in the member states because we do not want to have procyclical effects during the economic and financial crisis. it is important, especially for the cooperatives, the savings banks and the silent partners in germany, that we have created a correct and professional transitional system. there's still a lot to do. the fifth point i would like to highlight is procyclicality. the report says that the commission must very quickly state clearly the procyclical effects of the existing directives and we must see how the necessary change is made by the autumn. i ask you to accept this report's proposal for agreement with the trilogue so that we can maintain our leading role in the reorganization of the financial market as the european union, as the european parliament, and that we put into practice all the indications for future developments, so that we can open the door to an improved, more stable, more trusting european financial market and continue to play a strong role in the next g20 talks. i ask for your support.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by thanking you for your support, for the signal we are sending today to savers, businesses, banks and the financial community. the debate was very open. it also highlighted the weaknesses and the need for further development. i can tell you that all the wishes, but also the criticisms and the concerns, played a part in the negotiations, that we tried to incorporate them in the recitals and in the order for reviews. there is no point that has been made here that does not also play a role in the agreement that has been presented - some too little strongly, but everything does play a role. it is therefore quite clear that this is an important step forward, but not the last step, because we ourselves are announcing, urging and demanding further steps in this agreement and setting the direction for this debate. that means the debate is going on, it needs to go on, but i think it's important that we send a clear signal now, in this election period, that we are capable of action, that we want to create trust, security and stability, that we act quickly and that we know what to do in the future. i therefore ask that this step be taken jointly and by a large majority. thank you very much for the debate.
i have to say, madam president, i refer to rule 145 of the rules of procedure. at the sitting on 24 april, in my absence during the voting, mr hans-peter martin alleged that an unauthorized person was voting illegally from my seat with a ballot card. the bureau was able to reject this as incorrect immediately. i understand that some of you are getting nervous about the campaign. but this action is tantamount to the charge of deception, fraud and unjust enrichment by my person. this is a charge of a serious criminal offense. after mr hans-peter martin has repeatedly defamed, denounced and slandered this house, its members, even the officials and especially his austrian colleagues in public with distortions, half-truths and untruths, i have reached the limit of what i can tolerate. i demand a retraction of this accusation, an apology and a conviction by the bureau! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, can you please make sure there's a reasonable amount of quiet in the room? (cheers and applause) or will i be punished with deprivation of daily allowance if i dare call a referendum here? i have the right to a personal remark under article 149. i reject in the strongest terms what the honourable member has just said. i refer to what i actually said in the plenary, in the absence of most of the right-wing extremists and the brown-blooded people behind me. i'm all for it. and if i am accused ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) you're hearing other calls that are so horrible that i don't want to say them publicly. but that's the right-wingers. we know this from history, and this is the very great danger that lies ahead. as regards the allegation of the illegality of my actions, i would point out that although there have been various attempts to criminalise me, there has never been any criminal investigation, not because the austrian judges or prosecutors were involved, but because they saw how baseless these accusations are. if the right-wing radicals are now arguing such arguments, the voters must judge. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to point out that we have made it very clear in the debate that the amendments in the compromise are taken into account in a sufficiently detailed form. so i ask that we stick to this order. i have no objection to the vote by name.
in writing. - the eu, which is committed to democracy, tolerance and freedom of expression, does not seem to take these issues seriously. whether it is the right of peoples to self-determination, the criteria for accession or the solutions to the problems of the present, the eu is measured by two different standards, depending on what is currently approved. and those who do not meet the criteria of political correctness, those who are not approved by the eu establishment, those who show unpleasant realities in the eu, are excluded, and other rules are suddenly to apply to them. the principle of 'idem ius omnibus' 'equal rights for all' must not be shaken if the eu does not want to slip further into the hypocrisy of political correctness. personal animosities must not be used as a 'cause for legislation'.
in writing. - today, economic interests are being pushed through in a twisted and convoluted way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is sufficient for the eu to introduce an obligation to warn customers of the risks of infringement of 'intellectual property rights', and then sanctions could be regulated at national level. in retrospect, each one can blame the other. in addition, in the present report, large software developers have tried to create a stumbling block for smaller ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action in this area. the original idea of the telecom package was quite sensible, but in the face of the enormous number of amendments, one or the other of the critical ones may have slipped through the cracks.
the commission has already done so. i am very happy to support the draft regulation on the support office, the refugee fund and the regulation on eurodac. i would like to criticise the refugee directive and the dublin regulation, and i am obviously the only one in the debate to date who is doing so! the reception guidelines are designed to ensure that we provide refugees - genuine refugees - with the best possible assistance as quickly as possible. but the amendments which we have tabled seem to me to be a way forward which is an invitation to try immigration through an asylum application, which is ultimately an invitation to abuse asylum, if that is how you want to interpret it. why would you do that? all asylum seekers should have rapid access to the labour market. i believe that this is a matter for the member states to decide. it is proposed here that the circle of persons who can apply for asylum should be extended to include persons who have mental problems - yes, i know many people who have mental problems, but not all of them are then actually entitled to asylum - or to all elderly people, etc. it is a vague legal concept, and i do not accept that all asylum seekers should be granted the same social assistance as their own citizens, when some 95 per cent of them do not receive asylum at all. i think that is the wrong way to go with these amendments. i shall therefore vote against it with the epp delegation. the dublin regulation is similar in some respects, in that it encourages asylum shopping. if this new clause, introduced here as a discretionary clause, allows an asylum seeker to choose the country in which he or she applies for asylum - provided, of course, that this is approved - then this is exactly what is called asylum shopping. secondly, i think it is problematic to suspend transfers temporarily. i understand very well the situation in malta, but i think that the way to get support teams there quickly to help is more helpful than the way that has been proposed here. we must make sure that we help refugees quickly, but avoid abuse of asylum in any form.
my question is this: mrs trautmann's compromise amendment to the telecoms package was voted down in parliament today, which means that she has put president sarkozy in his 'three strikes' 'out' position. the czech presidency is also very concerned about the fact that the european parliament has not yet adopted a resolution on the situation in the czech republic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i congratulate the czech presidency on the senate's decision. however, i must say that we in europe are naturally dissatisfied with many areas of interaction between the institutions and that is why we have been negotiating this reform treaty for the last eight years. could it be possible to have a debate in the czech republic about what is really wrong with this treaty and what alternatives mr president klaus could offer the european people to overcome the current discontent, to which he is very vocal, and what solutions he would see? at the moment, all we know is that he wants to prevent the reform, but he's not making any positive proposals.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. i speak for the libe committee. i am a little irritated because i would also like to know the opinion of the committee on development, but mr berman has used his speaking time to warn us against putting pressure on the irish people. that's the kind of mindset that's apparently also led to our discussion tonight. i wonder whether this parliament still has the right to speak to its citizens, to exchange arguments, to defend the results of its work - ten years of work - on the constitutional process, or whether we are accused of exerting pressure and blackmail for this dialogue. it's a bit of a weird world. i would have liked parliament to have defended this treaty much more vigorously, much more aggressively, much more openly to the citizens and not to have left it all to governments, which very often have a rather divided attitude towards the progress of this treaty. some eurosceptics, mr president, claim that the democratic progress of this treaty is small and that it is actually a fig leaf for the dark and gloomy europe that is hiding behind it. i believe that a single look at the field of internal security, justice and the police, its community, parliamentary participation, the validity of the charter, belies these claims and disguises them as misinformation, propaganda, ignorance. this area has always been for me perhaps the most irritating expression of the democratic deficit in the union. i have never been one of those people who considered the separation of powers to be a historical philosophical principle rather than a basic principle of democracy. the lisbon treaty has provided a very decisive and forward-looking answer in this area. it is the most sensitive area of fundamental rights. in reality, police ministers have found themselves in this area behind closed doors without the control of the courts or the european court of justice and without the application of a comprehensive code of fundamental rights and freedoms over police laws. that's changing! and that is a huge step towards european democracy! and that, mr berman, is our duty to discuss with the citizens, to defend, and not to apply pressure! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i have the impression, looking around, that the inhabitants of the constitutional ivory tower were allowed to move their discussions to the plenary of the house today. that wasn't the deal! the european parliament has agreed to hold a major debate on the consequences of the lisbon treaty. would it not have been nice if this parliament had discussed this treaty this morning at the same time as the czech senate, had had a debate here, and had made it clear to the citizens of europe that this treaty was the work of the european parliaments from the convention to the present day that this reform was not imposed by a europe of elites, but that it was a great joint work? if something has failed, it is in my experience of 15 years that it has failed the governments, not the parliaments! yeah, we're all covered in scars and bruises now. i'm giving my last speech after 15 years, it's been a long journey, it's been a great honor. i was also one of the rapporteurs of this house, together with andrew duff, on both the charter of fundamental rights and the constitution. i must say - and i think i speak for the other members of the convention - that we have always been supported by the support of this european parliament. we have taken a lot of risks, some of them with visions that have caused a stir, the resistance of governments, some of them with vetoes that almost caused the convention to be cancelled, but it is fair to say that the driving force, the visionary force in this process, has been the parliaments. and so this was also a first victory for the europe of the citizens. let me now, perhaps, because we know each other's views on the progress of this treaty, look into the future. when the intergovernmental conference came to the outcome of the convention and abolished the legislative council and reintroduced council acts and stuck the third part - and all these things that are bothering us so much today - i had the idea of a first amendment to this constitution in the distant future. one of the key points of this treaty is the european parliament's right of initiative, its right to request the convening of a convention to amend the constitution. and we're not at the end of the road here. the council of ministers has already taken a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the council will take it up again in the near future. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. we need a major crisis! they probably thought about the next hundred years. but we have them! we have this crisis! and now suddenly the citizens ask why we have no economic governance! and they ask why we do not have at least a minimum of common european economic law on fiscal policy and corporate and transaction taxes! and people are asking about social europe! yes, we didn't come down from the barricades, it was just njet from the governments. today the whole of europe is asking: where are the powers of the european union to defend the social market economy and a fair distribution? meanwhile, trillions are being spent on the next generation. and we have no democratic competence, no legal basis to develop a social europe. i am asked every day what military action is really like in the name of europe. there are a few nation states doing 19th century cabinet politics with military action. should we not consider that this house must approve before military action can be taken in the name of europe? and the citizens' initiatives: the constitutional amendments were also excluded. why would you do that? why can there not be a citizens' initiative calling for a change in the treaty, for the further development of the european constitution? i think we have a long way to go. the hesitancy and timidity of this parliament vis-à-vis the council is a major obstacle. (interruption of the debate) i think we should be more combative. i hope that this house will really claim and implement the rights of the lisbon treaty with great self-confidence and great loyalty to the citizens and then think about how the whole thing can be developed a great deal better towards a european democracy and a european social order. i will not give up my dream, mr president! (interruption of the debate) i will not give up my dream of being able to say to my children or their children: 'vive la république d'europe!' (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think this debate is very important because we have heard from various quarters today that competence is being transferred to europe. this is true from the point of view of the nation states, but the fact is that it also gives the nation states a chance to ensure a level playing field in the other 26 member states. this rationalization project europe, that we do not have completely different legal systems in 27 member states, but that we are trying to create a uniform legal framework, is a great step forward and gives our ministers, but also our members of parliament, much more rights and opportunities to stand up for european citizens. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the debate, but that it should be involved in the debate on the future of the european union. we have been discussing these improvements intensively for the last eight years. we simply want to improve relations between the institutions and between citizens. we cannot stand up today and say that a reform process which has been going on for over eight years should be stopped without offering even a single alternative - that is the real scandal of this debate! we urgently need a clear orientation of what this treaty is about. this contract gives us new goals. we are finally getting a representative and participatory democracy with the appropriate citizens' initiative, we are getting new competences in environmental protection and climate change. as if a nation state could solve these problems on its own! this is not possible in the air, water and various other areas. we must also work together to ensure freedom, security and full employment. this is particularly important for the european union in the face of the crisis. but new legal bases are also important. in view of the critical energy situation, we need a legal basis for energy policy. in the area of trade policy too, when we look at international trade issues, we see how urgently we need a good solution for our european citizens, apart from space and intellectual property. and for our opponents, the withdrawal clause may not be entirely unimportant. i believe that the new powers and procedures of control will strengthen this parliament, and i am in favour of having this debate much more intensively, because many people still do not see the opportunities that this new europe offers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that half the population in ireland did not vote is proof of the difficulty of developing democracy in europe, as my predecessor has just shown, because the matter is very complex and not everyone wants to be a constitutional lawyer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so how can we ever develop reform in europe if we fail to get those in charge to actually live up to their responsibilities? commissioner wallström and her team have a very special responsibility here. the aim is to inform the european public, those who are interested, to make all information available to them so that qualified debate can take place. we must do much more to seek out the european public and inform them and tell them how important reform is to the further development of this europe. this is where we meet.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i congratulate you on this report. we all in the cultural committee can be happy and proud that we have managed to do this at this pace and have thus also proved that we are flexible and do not stick to procedure, but take into account the concerns of those who work in the film industry and are anxiously waiting for this set of rules to be completed now. we have accelerated our work so that we can work after the adoption and after the decision-making process has been completed, and we have not insisted on another reading. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am delighted that in the year of creativity and innovation, we are helping creatives to be more innovative and also to be better educated and to be better able to network globally. in the digital world, everything changes every day, the technology is different, and there are new conditions and challenges. it is therefore necessary that another network should be created. that requires the financial support we are giving here. if we want to promote our european films and ideas on the world market, we need not only better quality - we already have a very good one, but there is still room for improvement - but we must also provide financial support for cultural producers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards crossborder cooperation and dissemination to third countries, i would like to mention an example which i consider to be a success, namely slumdog millionaire. this film, which has travelled the world, received a grant of 830,000 euros from the media mundus programme and has become a worldwide success, has brought us closer to an emergency situation in a country. but it also showed what it means to work together across borders. so i think this is a great program, and i'm glad we did it in a short time without any problems. i would like to thank ruth hieronymi in particular and wish her well. she was a brilliant colleague and media expert. thank you, ruth, and good luck.
in writing. the further reduction of asbestos in europe is to be welcomed without reservation. asbestos fibres have been known to cause cancer for decades and the eu banned the use of this harmful substance in new products in 2003, the last vestiges of asbestos use should now be disappearing from europe. the majority of member states are already taking alternative paths. in the field of electrolysis plants in particular, other materials can often be used instead of asbestos. in the light of the ever-increasing health education of the european population and the very high european standards of environmental and health protection, it is irrelevant that carcinogens are still circulating in european factories.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already said all that is necessary and right about this important text for aviation and for the people who depend on aviation - as employees or as passengers. just not from me yet. i would therefore like to take this opportunity, quite deliberately, not to repeat what has already been said here, but to focus on the crisis. mr president, you have indicated that this is not the first and probably unfortunately not the last crisis in aviation that we, as well as aviation, have to deal with. it is right that in such crisis situations we should react quickly and try to find sensible solutions. this has worked. but we should not be fooled into thinking that the crisis has sometimes been used, is being used and will be used as a pretext to organise regulations which do not really serve aviation and the people, but rather certain interests. we have given airlines the opportunity to interpret this term very broadly, as we have done in the past with the denied boarding directive, which uses rather vague wording on the subject of 'extraordinary circumstances'. you're doing this at the expense of the passengers. we have also failed to impose fines for delays in this directive. the airlines have, particularly in recent weeks and months, exploited the fact that they do not have to pay for delays, but basically only have to grant passenger rights of a minimal nature, to the detriment of passengers. we shouldn't make that mistake twice. please therefore submit a proposal to amend this legal text in the next parliamentary term. another point: for me too, this is the last day of school here in this house, as for many colleagues. usually, you get a school bag on the first day of school, but maybe there's a bag of candy on the last day. mr president, i would like to ask you to put an end to the nonsense we have created with the fluids regulation and the security checks at airports as soon as possible. this regulation has not benefited anyone, it has not protected anyone, but has only caused trouble. it is only because no one is brave enough to tell the people and actually carry out this abolition that we are all still suffering under this unspeakable regulation. please fill this bag and put an end to this nonsense! thank you to all those with whom i have had the pleasure of working over the past few years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one question: if the irish say no again, how many more times do they have to go to the polls? a third, a fourth, a fifth time? this is not a democracy, this is a karaoke parliament!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we as social democrats were unable to sign the joint resolution in time for technical reasons, but we did so later. we are fully behind this as a whole group - and i say this in particular for our romanian colleagues, led by adrian severin.
i have to say, madam president, the czech republic, one of the new eu countries, held the presidency of the council, which was undoubtedly a welcome development in the spirit of european integration. the chaos into which this presidency has led us has been less welcome. of course, perfection is not expected of a new country with little european experience, but a minimum of sensitivity is. the art scandal that opened the presidency, for example, may not have been the fault of the government in prague, but the halfhearted reaction and the fact that the works remained installed can certainly be blamed on the presidency. but political leadership is characterized above all by the handling of difficulties, by crisis management. and here we have had some very serious shortcomings: 20 days of energy emergency in europe in the course of the gas dispute between russia and ukraine could still be overcome somehow; but the management of the middle east crisis was, in my opinion, already more than helpful. and as if the us missile shield in the czech republic were not bad enough, the us leadership in the czech republic has also been reflected in the council presidency, for example by denigrating the israeli offensive in the gaza strip as a defensive action. the treaty of lisbon itself was only half-heartedly criticized and delayed by the prague leadership. the great opportunity to bring democracy back into the european union has been lost. the fact that no agreement was reached between slovenia and croatia on the question of the maritime border is also regrettable. finally, croatia is no less prepared for eu accession than the ten new member states were when they joined, on the contrary, it is probably even better prepared! i think it is even more regrettable that sweden does not want to continue the mediation efforts. croatia does not deserve this. the czech presidency of the council is therefore a somewhat ambiguous one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. we need bold democrats and we urgently need an exciting, really functioning, democratic europe in this new era. the artists, and especially the free writers, have an identity-creating role to play in the making of this new europe. their uncensored imagination can contain the demons of bureaucracy and the destruction of democracy. because ultimately, it's compelling ideas that are at the beginning of social change. if you can get people's minds on the hopeful vision - and the swedes have historically been very good at it, and i trust my former colleague cecilia malmström will do the same - you can also make their hearts beat sociopolitically. i have therefore written the final paragraph of my new book, very consciously, at the beginning of this last campaign, which has brought about great changes. and this is coupled with great hope that you, from sweden, with your great democratic tradition and also transparency, are now seeing the signs of the times. we are not only facing the economic crisis - and here sweden has shown its skill in largely avoiding it - but we are also facing a rather threatening shift to the right. and that is why i firmly believe that we democrats must stand together for real transparency and especially as democrats for the fight against the far right!
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to ask you to allow me to speak to mr bildt in particular, because i would like to begin by addressing the question of enlargement, particularly in the balkans. you mentioned that this process of enlargement will be slower than some on both sides would have liked. however, it is very important to give clear signals. i expect the swedish presidency to help the people, especially in south-eastern europe, to overcome the problems they are facing - including intergovernmental problems - so that they have hope that the road to europe will not be cut off but can continue, even if it takes a little longer. but of course these countries must make the necessary preparations. secondly, i should like to come to another subject which you have raised, namely the question of the restructuring of the economy, the link between ecology and economic policy. it's been announced that we're gonna be fully behind you on this. i believe that this is an important european task. it is true that we are far ahead in this area, but we still have a lot to do. at the same time, unemployment is increasing. the unemployment rate in europe today is not yet at its maximum. it will go on. i'm sorry to hear that. it is therefore very important to mention the other side, the social side. because we will only get broad support for the ecological restructuring of the economy if people feel that their social needs, their social needs, are also being taken seriously. the nordic countries in particular have many good examples of active labour market policies. we cannot create jobs as the eu or as individual countries, but we can help people who lose their jobs to find work as quickly as possible. this is what we mean by social europe: the active labour market policy that we need in the individual member states, but in which the european union, the council, must also give clear signals. the restructuring of the economy towards ecology does not mean more unemployment, but ultimately less unemployment. that is what we are asking for!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we heard last week in a foreign affairs committee convened - to my great pleasure as a new member of parliament - from mr makhmalbaf, an iranian film director, who told us very clearly that before this election there was 20% democracy in iran, and after this election, which he considered a coup, there is no democracy at all. i too agree with this designation, it was indeed an electoral coup that, by means of massive electoral fraud, took away this right from the majority of the iranian population who had expressed their desire for change. mr president-in-office, i am particularly interested in the fact that mr ahmadinejad, who has been re-elected, will be inaugurated in mid-august. what is being discussed in the council and in the member states? will there be an official representation of the european union and also of the member states? i hope there won't be any! i think that after this electoral coup there should be no official representation of the european union or of the member states, although i am in favour of a further dialogue, but no one should be officially represented by the european union at this inauguration. what is your position on this? how is this currently being handled?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy, i said. and now we are faced with a situation which is an untenable state of affairs for all those who are not represented in a political group in this parliament of their own free will. i would ask the bureau to find a solution to the coordinators' problem in good faith. we are discriminated against in this context because we are not allowed to participate in coordinator meetings, to be active in various committees. i would like to help avoid that an action before the european court of justice - as was the case in the 2001 discrimination case - would result in the finding that all coordinator decisions taken up to that point were not in accordance with the law. this would not only be very harmful to parliament, but it would also be politically unnecessary. i therefore urge the bureau to take appropriate measures to put an end to the discrimination against non-attached members in this area and to return to the good working methods of the last ten years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the economic crisis has hit agricultural production hard. the situation in the dairy sector in particular has deteriorated dramatically over the last 20 months. with prices below 21 cents, farmers have to sell their milk below the cost of production. the survival of many family farms in the eu is seriously threatened and many can currently survive only by relying on personal savings, which is clearly not sustainable. the figures presented by the commission paint a dramatic picture of the fall in the price of milk and milk products. the support measures for dairy farming are essential to prevent the collapse of rural agriculture. quality comes at a price, but that no longer seems to apply in the agricultural sector. at present, the producer price has no relation to the consumer price. our family farms are in dire need of market support measures. the aim is to ensure food security in europe. we must not forget that hundreds of thousands of jobs in europe depend on a functioning agriculture.
i have to say, madam president, i shall begin by expressing my doubts. my wife is herself in the management of an automobile company in germany, and in austria they are happy that opel is being saved in this way. but if we look at the events in more detail, i have serious doubts whether we are not doing exactly the same thing as we have seen in austria in connection with the apparent rescue of the nationalised industry and as has already happened in germany around the holzmann company before a decisive election. i do not know whether there are any german colleagues here who would make a bet with me that opel would have been supported in this way by the presumptive german taxpayer if it had not been for the fact that such an important ballot was due in ten days. i would like the commission to look at sine ira et studio, to really consider whether this is reasonable. if we are always talking about competition, there should be competition, and it should not lead to competition downwards, to those who have actually done better than opel!
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what happened in greece this summer should never be allowed to happen again in europe. in total, 75 fires were raging in greece alone, six of them completely uncontrolled, the worst of which, as we heard today, were in the north of athens, near the capital. it is only thanks to the courageous and selfless efforts of volunteer firefighters and other voluntary organizations that the fires in many regions could not go completely uncontrolled and that human tragedies were kept within limits. i would like to pay tribute to the volunteer firefighters, whose equipment was often not up to date, as we heard. i say 'colleagues' or 'comrades' because i myself have been a member of a volunteer fire brigade in austria for many decades and can therefore sympathize and feel for what has been done here. let me turn now to the commission's comments. i think it is great that european intervention can help when local forces are not enough. but i also believe that the old saying 'help yourself, god will help you' is a very important one, and that is why i also think it is very important that civil protection mechanisms are set up. i can only recommend and encourage the use of the know-how that exists here, especially in central europe, in germany and austria, namely the system of voluntary service that has been tested by volunteer fire brigades for over a hundred years. i am also happy to be a volunteer firefighter myself and to make contacts with the state and federal authorities of the volunteer fire departments. in such cases it is also interesting to do something ourselves, and if it is desired, i can offer my greek friends a pilot project to set up a volunteer fire brigade in a selected region or municipality. i am also willing to help and cooperate actively with my colleagues from the upper austrian fire brigade!
in writing. this summer, devastating forest fires again broke out in some parts of europe, causing not only considerable economic damage but also killing at least 11 people. in the face of such natural disasters, europe can and must show solidarity. in such urgent situations the community can prove its worth and the european people can derive direct added value from the european union. however, in practice, the rules of subsidiarity must be respected. the member states are responsible for disaster preparedness and the preparation of disaster plans. the eu cannot interfere with this important competence of the individual member states. the community's solidarity fund is a valuable and good instrument for financial management. in the long term, the strategy for preventing such fires within europe must be improved and not just focused on short-term crisis management.
in writing. − once again, the impact of globalisation is evident in the applications from spain and portugal to benefit from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). in the countries of south-east asia, not least in the special economic zones, where people are exploited and employed without minimum social standards, textiles are produced at dumped prices and then thrown on the market in europe. our european companies, which respect the social rights of workers, which have been developed and acquired over decades, are lagging behind because of the higher costs that this entails. this development must be brought to a halt immediately. the importation into the eu of products which have not been produced in accordance with certain minimum social standards must be prohibited as soon as possible. until then, we can only reduce the damage caused by globalisation in the countries concerned. i therefore voted without reservation to release the funds from the fund.
in writing. − france was hit by severe storms in january 2009. the storm 'klaus' has caused devastating damage, particularly to infrastructure. the aim of the solidarity fund is to partially cover losses which have to be borne by the public authorities. all the conditions are met in the present case. for this reason, and not least out of a sense of transnational solidarity with the french citizens who were and in some cases still are affected by the storm 'klaus', i voted in favour of the draft amending budget.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate you and i would like to put one thing on your mind: a parliament is always as good as it uses its rights, as it activates its rights and as it does not leave the big political discourse behind. we all have a responsibility to work with you to ensure that this parliament does not allow itself to be pressured by commission proposals which are crude or one-sided in the interests of certain lobbyists. we have a responsibility to speak clearly and distinctly here, and we must do so now! we have to think about how lisbon will change our situation. i hope we can do all that. we must now make it clear - and this includes the question of the election of the president of the commission - that we are exercising our rights and we must send a clear signal to the commission. that means no direct elections for mr barroso now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i want to take a different tone in this debate and ask ourselves: who among us should not evolve? who among us could not be better? who among us is without fault? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. some paths are new. i feel that some people here are looking for a single culprit for the problems instead of approaching them with new energy and new ideas, with new energy and new vision to solve our common problems. some are suspicious and distrustful, distracting from their own weaknesses, and ignoring the election results of june 7, 2009, which is the democratic foundation of today's debate. we are accusing the president of the commission of doing what he is obliged to do, namely to respect the treaties and to implement the decisions. today we have heard the beautiful phrase: 'without freedom there is no solidarity, without solidarity there is no strong european union capable of action'. i would also say: there is no strong european commission. we're in a boat. each of us is partly responsible, each of us bears his own measure of responsibility. the president of the commission bears a high degree of primary responsibility. but as martin schulz said, it's not just him. its strength also depends on us, on the member states, on the competence and quality of the commissioners. and that's the next chapter we have to open. how do we implement the ecosocial market economy? how do we reorganize the commission? how do we create a financial market commissioner? like the diplomatic service? like the climate change? our president concluded today by quoting bronisław geremek: 'let us all put our feet on the pedals and seize the opportunity for change instead of blaming each other!'
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i campaigned as the leading candidate of the social democrats in austria for strong european financial regulation, for an amendment to the posting of workers directive, for the protection of public services and for the assessment of the social consequences of legislation. since all this was not done in the previous commission, which you chaired, i assumed that we needed a new commission, a new president of the commission. now you say you'll do everything i've asked you to do. how can we believe you now? my colleague stephen hughes has already pointed out that the barroso i commission has not delivered on some of the promises you have made before. you have a few weeks to prove that you really mean it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. because tomorrow you will - this has already been announced - receive support from many people who have nothing to do with these content objectives. they will have a lot of support from those members who have prevented these objectives from being achieved, or who have rejected these objectives, such as the posting of workers directive and the public services, and have very much supported privatisation. these members of parliament will be supporting you tomorrow. and then you have to prove that you can form a new majority with the commission that really wants to achieve the objectives mentioned. if mr lambsdorff thinks that this can only be a german election campaign and that the social democrats are leaving the european track, then i have to answer him: not the social democrats, you are going into a community with real anti-europeans, and that is the problem! many of us would be willing to support you if there were a clear social line from the commission. we take note of your promises today, but we also expect a decision that the policy of the future commission will take seriously the concerns i have mentioned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy! mr barroso, imagine that you were standing in an election in europe, all by yourself, no other candidate! what percentage of the vote would you get? what would the citizens do? i think they would have listened to you today and seen that you promised everything to everyone. i hope you'll get the same information you did five years ago. you promised most of them a lot. then you have to compare what you've already promised, what you're promising now, and what's to be expected. i think that's very, very little. they stand for the old, for the failed europe, for the contribution to the financial crisis because the commission failed, for the lack of commitment on climate issues and and and. i would put myself on the side of the majority of european citizens, because i believe they would not get more than 10 or 12 or 15% of the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not talking about my predecessor, of course, but i would ask you to be fair in interrupting speakers who are going over their speaking time! some people you dramatically withhold the word from, others you let slip for a very long time. this is not right!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that mr barroso is the walking compromise between the powers of europe. we also know that it is the lowest common denominator of the governments of the member states. and we know that mr barroso has something for everyone: a little maoism for the left, a little conservatism for the christian socialists, a little neoliberalism, and now he is also a little green and socialist. mr barroso will of course be the candidate without a rival, without an alternative. but he has a hard few days now, and he has to listen to the unkind words of the united left and other critics. but it is worth it, because we know that mr barroso will probably be president of the commission again after these difficult days and that there will be some rotten compromises between the large and powerful groups in this house, but also between the governments in the council, and that mr barroso, who has been the personification of the wrong developments in european integration over the last five years, will probably remain so for the next five years. we all have little say in the matter.
madam president, mr barroso has spoken quite often about the extraordinary times we live in, the important issues faced and the leadership the eu has to show in the financial market sector. however, mr barroso, there is one thing you i should like to ask you about – and you mention it in the paper you presented to us – namely the european union’s own financial resources. you do not say where they should come from. in this connection there is one question that i asked you about at the hearing we had with the greens/efa group last week. unfortunately i did not get an answer from you; hopefully i will now. my question is: what about a financial transaction tax? even mr sarkozy has now proposed this, and mr steinmeier and others are talking about it now. belgium and france already have legal instruments to implement it, so why not talk and bring pressure to bear with a view to a commission proposal on a financial transaction tax?
i have to say, madam president, the european union suffers from a glaring democratic deficit. unfortunately, this has not changed in the last five years under mr barroso. during his tenure, we slipped into a very severe economic crisis, and it turned out that all the warnings about the instability of the financial system were simply ignored. these warnings were very much in place. when mr barroso speaks in his speech about the need to change the financial architecture, for example to reform the bonus system for managers, i say quite clearly: mr barroso, that was your task for the last five years, and you have not fulfilled that task! that's why i'm gonna vote you out. i personally would like to see a young commission president who would fill his office with a lot of creativity, with the courage to make big changes and above all with independence, someone who would lead europe towards a genuine democracy. because i am sure that europe needs a new spirit of adventure. it certainly does not go with mr barroso, but only without him.
is there an impact assessment on how competitiveness in europe will change, whether we will save 20% or 30% and what will be the impact on small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, on jobs?
what incentives are there to encourage investment in renewable energy sources, not just in industry and commerce, but also in private households?
in times of resource scarcity, it is important to act with purpose, to channel the right amount to the right people at the right time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
another interesting phenomenon is that two-thirds of africa's population live in just eight of the 53 countries. so the problem of overpopulation in africa is clearly confined to individual states. how do these facts fit into the european union's development policy?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. this is particularly evident in this process, which is now beginning with the g20 because it may become even more, one could even think of a g3 which has fortunately gained momentum. what is the council's position - particularly in your tradition - on considerations to help establish a democratic control mechanism? it doesn't have to be a world parliament. but what is being done there needs to be democratically controlled by elected representatives in a much larger framework than the european parliament. i would also like to emphasize that the issue of systemic risk must be tackled in principle. especially with regard to the situations of coercion that we have been in time and again, starting already in 1998 with ltcm, hypo real estate and of course lehman, and the consequences of this, there should be rules that make it impossible that this fundamental problem of too big to fail can occur. this can be done under the law of cartels, but it is certainly also a matter of global principle. in the area of transaction tax, there was already the tobin tax group in the european parliament in 1999. i'm glad to see some progress. in the area of the supervisory package, it is urgently necessary to act in a european manner and not to be pushed back by those who want the wrong europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the data is getting better. the multiple causes of the crises - not just regulatory gaps - are still not eliminated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we're talking about the g20 today. it's a good process. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the first is the development of a democratic parliamentary process of legitimization; secondly, more eu in europe and more europe in the world - this also means that the values of the charter of fundamental rights are our export commodity, that the responsible model of the eco-social market economy is the basis of our global order; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are calling for european integrated supervision of financial markets, not merely coordinated supervision, on the model of the european central bank. the de larosière report is not enough. we are talking about the debate on bonus payments, but the change in the way they are paid out is not going in the right direction. we have to change the measurement framework, and wherever there is a bonus, there has to be a malus component. i think the procyclicality debate is lacking at the moment. we must eliminate the procyclical effects of the crisis and the existing regulations for 2009 and 2010. the political will must not be weakened. so after your speeches, madam president-in-office and commissioner, we are now optimistically heading for pittsburgh.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the united states is a key partner in the fight against terrorism. but it is precisely in the field of sensitive data that we want, in cooperation with the americans, european regulations on data security, civil rights and the personal rights of our citizens in relation to data. we therefore call on the european people's party to ensure that there are some basic criteria which must be met for the conclusion of such a treaty. first, there must be a balance between the security of citizens and their rights. secondly, we need legal certainty for the companies concerned and our citizens. thirdly, we welcome the european parliament's co-legislature and therefore we very much welcome the intention to conclude a transitional agreement. we wish you, madam minister, and the commission here, every success in the coming weeks! fourthly, we believe that both the transitional agreement and the final agreements should treat intra-european data sets in accordance with european law. fifthly, we want to pursue a comparable instrument, such as the tftp, which should also be introduced at eu level. and sixthly, we believe that this is the prerequisite for reciprocity, for reciprocity. these are our ideas, and we are very pleased that there is a wider consensus in the plenary. after the transitional agreement, we should negotiate and adopt the final agreement quickly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. in principle, such projects for the regional promotion of crossborder cooperation are welcome and very useful. however, strategies often have the disadvantage that while they set and achieve targets, sustainability is neglected in the implementation. sustainability must therefore be taken into account at the planning stage. it is therefore important that the regions, the organisations that are networked, work together in implementing this integrated strategy for the baltic sea region - a very important eu flagship project - because these organisations know best what is important to them in the different areas - nature, social structure, infrastructure - and they are the most knowledgeable in this area. it is a region with 100 million inhabitants and an investment of 50 billion euros. this is where special care should be taken to make this pilot project a success. this pilot project is also of particular importance for other projects in the danube region, for the danube-river countries in central and south-eastern europe.
in writing. − unfortunately, the summer of 2009 was also marked by devastating forest fires in southern europe, which caused major material and ecological damage. in this context, it has become clear that arsonists who profit from the destruction of forests are encouraged to do so by the lack of or absence of forest registers or by the lack of clearly defined land devolution. it was therefore important that this motion for a resolution also called on the member states to revise or amend these registers. in addition to reforestation, cooperation between experts, fire brigades and other emergency and prevention teams is particularly needed. the present motion for a resolution contains reasonable proposals on how the community can assist the member states in the event of disasters in accordance with the principle of solidarity. that is why i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the forest fires in the summer of 2009.
i have to say, madam president, the fact that serbia, macedonia and montenegro are now to be exempted from the visa requirement shows that the reform efforts of these countries are clearly bearing fruit. ten years after the end of the conflict, the divisions in the balkans are still deep. it's still boiling under the surface. this is also evident from the fact that albania, kosovo and bosnia, which did not get on the train this time, feel disadvantaged. but it seems that they prefer to cultivate old antagonisms rather than ask what the neighbouring countries have done better and how they can make progress in order to earn, so to speak, visa-free travel. in any event, serbia should soon be granted the status of a candidate country, as it is moving towards european maturity in many respects. but the wounds are far from healed and any eu action will be assessed accordingly. we must therefore, on the one hand, communicate better the reasons for the decisions and, on the other hand, make it clear to albania, kosovo and bosnia that they still have to make enormous efforts to become as european as they are. the peace process in the balkans in the eu's courtyard is much more important than the accession of turkey, which is being pushed so hard by some.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the greens, of course, welcome the liberalization of visas for montenegro, macedonia and serbia. this is something that i too have been very active in the last few years when i was a member of the austrian national council. it is an important step towards the realization of this dream of a united and peaceful europe. but this step you're taking now also comes with some stumbling blocks. it will make the muslim citizens of bosnia feel discriminated against. this was already the case when you announced that there would be liberalizations for the other countries. they argue on the basis of technical conditions which bosnia-herzegovina has not yet fulfilled. but you seem to overlook the fact that other countries that are now liberalizing are still very much in trouble. bosnia has already issued 40 000 biometric passports, has already introduced a system for displaced persons which does not yet exist in other countries, has introduced an anti-corruption agency which does not yet exist in serbia, for example. i have the impression that there is political discrimination here too, and i believe that this is very dangerous for peace in the region and for a multiethnic bosnia-herzegovina. so to name this danger again: there is a danger that ethnic lines will be formalized here too. i therefore ask you to make a joint package with bosnia-herzegovina and albania and also to start a visa dialogue with kosovo.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. as my predecessor has already said, this law, which was adopted in lithuania, threatens european values, european law, but also the freedom of people, namely the freedom of young people in particular, who are lesbian, gay, bisexual or perhaps even transgender, to live their lives without fear. because according to this law, factual information on this subject is supposedly harmful to these young people. i can tell you what that means. it means that these young people have to live in fear, possibly get depressed. we know that particularly among young people who are lesbian or gay or who are in this coming-out phase and not sure how they're going to live, there's an increased rate of suicide attempts. this law is in direct violation of european values. that is why i was pleased, commissioner barrot, that you had already given an answer in july. they also replied to the european regional association of the international lesbian and gay association (ilga) that the commission would analyse this text and then set out its next steps. i 'm interested in today 's: what are you planning to do? what steps have you and the council taken towards the lithuanian parliament? we know that the former president of lithuania and the new president, who was a former commissioner, do not approve of this law. but parliament insists on it. i am glad that there is now a proposal, including a resolution. i very much hope that we can all adopt this resolution together tomorrow and ask the european agency for fundamental rights to give its opinion on this law, because that is what it is for. it should be clear by now in this europe we share that lesbian and gay life does not disappear from families and schools just because a law prohibits information about it. being different is normal even in this europe we share!
the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments. the commission is not commissioner, thank you for your report. the security of supply for our citizens is becoming an increasingly important issue. it is in this context that your department will play an even greater role in the future, also in terms of european identity. it is about - you mentioned that right - diversification, of course. i can only agree with mr kasoulides that cooperation with russia will always be important, as it is an important partner in gas supplies. but we should not be too dependent on one country - no matter what country it is - but we should diversify accordingly. and here, nabucco is a good approach. my third point concerns the need for solidarity in the eu. here you have made some suggestions on how to strengthen this solidarity and how to strengthen the eu's role as a mediator in disputes that affect us, in particular between russia and ukraine. you also mentioned desertec. i believe that both projects are important, with their different short- and long-term implications. it is also necessary to consider - and this would be a task for your successor, whether you yourself or whoever - how we in europe are committed to some of the major projects, such as nabucco and desertec, but at the same time also advocate the decentralization of certain electricity or energy production. a number of industrial projects are currently under development, which will enable consumers and households to become more involved in energy production, which will bring energy security. this goes from smart meters on one side to direct production by individual households. this could be the european aspect, to say: yes, of course we need external supply, we need security of supply, we need large projects, innovative projects like desertec, but we also need to ensure that people, companies, enterprises, but also individual households can control their energy budget, their energy consumption, both in terms of price and in terms of both economic and environmental aspects.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nabucco was giuseppe verdi's first major opera success. but in the same vein as the new italian-russian remix south stream, the energy project of the same name is in danger of becoming a pawnshop. and when you consider that a supposedly green man like joschka fischer is signing a six-figure lobbying contract, the whole thing sounds more like an avoidable pop song for an oligopolistic market than a symphony of sustainability and thrift. in the next few years, electricity from solar energy will become much cheaper. the total investment could generate a total of 8 000 megawatts of wind energy. if we now add to this the fact that natural gas fields in iran and iraq are to be developed for europe, then we will probably end up like verdi himself. because he, too, hasn't been able to rest for years after his nabucco project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal here is welcome in and of itself and makes sense from an economic and real political point of view. however, it should be noted that the price decline, on a more nuanced view, was not due solely to a decline in demand. the problem of dairy farmers in austria and the alpine region must also be taken into account. the small, structured farms in the netherlands cannot really compete with the giant farms in northern germany and the netherlands. this creates an imbalance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quotas are not exceeded. the european market would be dominated by a few multinationals. the consequences for the quality of food are not hard to imagine.
in writing. - i agree with the commission's short-term solution of buying butter and milk powder, but i call for a long-term solution to the milk crisis, for example through flexible quantity control leading to a cost-covering milk price. the milk surplus must be contained at national level by means of european standards.
in writing. - the crisis in the milk sector has also led to a fall in the prices of butter and skimmed milk powder. i welcome the commission's proposal to continue market support and intervention until 28 february 2010 inclusive. it is to be hoped that the market will recover and prices will again be determined by supply and demand. i think that the interventions are necessary for the limited time available, which is why i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. − the planned international agreement will provide the us treasury with financial transaction data for the purpose of preventing and combating terrorism and terrorist financing. the transfer of financial transaction data to foreign powers constitutes a serious interference with the fundamental rights of our citizens, especially when the recipient of the data is the united states of america. they have shown in the past that they do not really take data protection concerns seriously, especially when it comes to the realization and implementation of the projects and goals set by the ruling system. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one. that is why i voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. - in recent months, a situation has arisen on the milk markets which is threatening many dairy farmers. the prices of their products have fallen rapidly. this is particularly true of small and mediumsized enterprises, which have to rely on their reserves to survive. this is why swift action by the eu is needed. the commission has so far been far too timid in its attempts to deal with the crisis, which it has helped to create by increasing the supply quotas. the initiatives of parliament, which are reflected in this motion for a resolution, are therefore all the more welcome. the main measures include the creation of a milk fund with a budget of eur 600 million, measures to increase demand for milk products, increased quality control and strict labelling requirements. i therefore took it for granted to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution and the measures contained therein, in the spirit of support for our farmers.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. i consider particularly important the significant increase in the share of renewable energy sources in the current energy mix, which is why i also welcome the desertec project, which is being planned by a group of private investors. the aim is to reduce the eu's dependence on individual countries, from which we have so far sourced our fossil fuels. the proposed nabucco project is not helping, unfortunately, because it makes the eu vulnerable to blackmail in view of turkey's planned accession to the eu. the project in its present form, with the direct influence of the islamic regime in turkey, must therefore be rejected. that is why, despite the many positive aspects of the text, i abstained from voting on the final text.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution is absolutely right in its essence, because it is our duty, of course, to speak clearly, especially in the context of the proposed association, also in terms of the protection of the family, relatives and comrades of muhannad al hassani, and also to demand the content postulated in article 2 of the agreement. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is not the first time that the european parliament has been called upon to make a statement on the human rights situation in the country. it is only two decades since the collapse of a communist terror system in central and southeastern europe. in this context, however, i would also like to remind you not to close your eyes to the fact that human rights are not being respected as they should be in the neighbourhood of syria - in turkey, so to speak. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty of rome, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take the necessary steps to ensure that the turkish authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the treaty of rome.
in writing. − the current financial crisis and its impact on the economic and ultimately social sectors of the eu member states require intensive joint efforts to deal with it. the decision of the conference of presidents of 17 september 2009 to analyse in a structured way and to develop proposals for appropriate measures to maintain viable, crisis-resilient financial markets through a special committee should be supported. however, it is critical to note that more than 12 months have passed since the first symptoms of the crisis appeared last year and were seen at the beginning of this year. the measures introduced in the meantime must be seen primarily as symptomatic and emergency measures to safeguard the workplace. in support of this request, it should be noted that special attention must be paid to coordinated and coordinated measures, since individual solutions would ultimately lead to distortions of competition, taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too was very pleased and relieved last saturday that the irish people, by a two-thirds majority, had said yes and had thus clearly stopped believing in the false statements and the horror stories about a minimum wage of €1.84 and that they had said yes to this common europe. finally, in foreign policy, we have the chance to work together for more conflict prevention, for more human rights and democracy in all parts of the world, and thus to take greater account of the global responsibility of the european union. but for it to really come into force - and some have already said this - it will require the support of all european heads of state and government, so that president klaus will also be persuaded to sign the treaty. i mean, all of them. i was very indignant this morning when a head of government - namely the austrian chancellor, werner faymann - said in an interview that if president klaus did not sign, he saw an opportunity for austria to hold a new referendum here. this is european political irresponsibility! i would ask the president-in-office of the council to make it clear to the austrian prime minister that this is a matter of our common european political responsibility. i would also ask my colleagues from the socialist group to clarify this. the point is that all those who are in favour of this common europe should now make it clear that president klaus should also sign that we cannot have any kind of undermining of this process which is leading to the fulfilment of the lisbon treaty. nor is there a "spampanadln", as we say in austrian, so let's do what is popular among the population. i think that is really irresponsible from a european political point of view and i hope that the austrian prime minister will back down.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the majority are happy, relieved. i expect the minority to respect the result! the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations. we find that there is a democratic majority and a blocking minority. this 'yes' of the democratic majority was a 'yes' of reason, a 'yes' to a more democratic, more transparent and closer to the citizen european union, a 'yes' of people who think and act in a pro-european way, a 'yes' to the strengthening of the european union in the world, an important step in the right direction. we are far from finished, because we need a common foreign and security policy to become a global player. we must develop democracy further, for example by the possibility of a european referendum, by a uniform european electoral law and much more. we have a lot to do now, we can't waste any time. i expect the commission to press ahead swiftly with the reform of the dossiers and to begin discussions with the member states through the commissioners. i expect the council to make clear its position on this result. and i expect us to be more involved in information, communication and dialogue with the public. we have seen clearly that the better the information, communication and dialogue, the greater the majority. politicians who do not believe this are out of place, as are politicians who hide behind referendums because they themselves do not want to approach the citizens and take responsibility. the more european the debate, the greater the majority. we say no to the nationalisation of european politics, no to national referendums on european affairs, except when it comes to the accession of one's own country!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr zahradil asked who was benefiting. he meant us as parliamentarians. i guess. it is not so bad, after all, that in a parliamentary democracy the parliaments - and this is not just the european parliament, but also the national parliaments - have a share of it. but in reality, citizens benefit when we can represent their interests more strongly and better. as mr schulz has already pointed out, we live in a changed world, a world in which there is a strong china, a growing india, a growing brazil and a still strong united states of america. if we look at washington today, we see that the new government is asking: what does europe say on the various issues, from afghanistan to other issues? is there a clear statement and a clear language? if we don't have it, we won't be taken seriously. russia is always trying to play the eu member states against each other, because of course that is more pleasant for our partners. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report because it is not in a position to do so. in reality, those who are fighting this treaty are actually strengthening our so-called partners, if you will, and our opponents. it is already clear: yes, we still have some institutional questions to solve, particularly in connection with the foreign service. but let us not try to continue institutional debates. the citizens want a clear answer on the substance. they want us to speak a strong language when it comes to climate change, when it comes to security issues, when it comes to financial regulation. in each case we can prove that lisbon is better. but we must argue in terms of substance so that the citizens feel that the european union is not only concerned with itself but also with the interests of its citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to ask mr karas a question, which i may ask later. i ask mr swoboda, after mrs lunacek has already criticised our chancellor faymann and his party colleagues, how he, as a social democrat, will now react to the proposal by his party leader or chancellor to hold a referendum in austria.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not think we should have an intra-austrian debate, but it is quite clear that there is no referendum on the treaty of lisbon, not even in austria! that is clear and unequivocal! the lisbon treaty has been ratified and must enter into force as soon as possible. that's my opinion and ours!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in all the debates over the lisbon treaty in recent years, it has been repeatedly said, even by those who are in favour, that this treaty is not optimal, that it has many weaknesses, that it is not really a particularly successful compromise. now these supporters are rejoicing that this treaty is close to being implemented, and that is legitimate. but if we now hear these supporters say that the majority has spoken democratically and the minority may accept that, they are right, but i would have expected this statement even after the first referendum in ireland. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i believe it will lead to a centralized superstate. but one thing is clear: this europe will only be a good europe if it is a democratic europe. a democracy that consists of voting as many times as the establishment gets the result it wants is not a democracy. i hope that the czech president will not be pressured to complete this result as quickly as possible. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a shame for democracy that the traditional politicians in their member states deny their own citizens a referendum, but at the same time demand two referendums in ireland. it is also a shame that these politicians did not accept the result of the first referendum, but now at the same time demand that the result of the second referendum be accepted. whether or not this treaty of lisbon on constitutional reform enters into force, we need a new basic treaty. this new fundamental treaty should include: genuine separation of powers, a truly independent court for subsidiarity issues, full transparency and economy and, above all, binding referendum decisions. we can still escape the trap of europe. that's what we should be focusing our energies on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the whole process of ratifying the lisbon treaty on constitutional reform was a tragedy for democracy and also for the european union. let me say, perhaps, as a young new member of parliament: with referendums for all citizens in the european union, we had the historic opportunity to merge the very elitist drafting board of the european union with the people of europe. you have had the opportunity to breathe life into the emotional wreck of the european union with referendums. but you didn't take the chance. quite the opposite. they have said, loud and clear, no to more direct democracy, no to citizen participation. i can only say that democracy is something else. because democracy requires a separation of powers, a clear separation between opposition and government. that's what we stand for, that's what we stand for.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the financial conditions for the entry of airlines into the market have already been discussed in the transport committee. and at that time the question of guarantee funds was already on the table. the question was obviously not considered by the majority at the time to be of sufficient importance or significance. now there are cases that really give rise to reflection and to regulation. because we need to make adjustments here. firstly, we must be constantly vigilant to ensure that the passenger rights we have adopted here to protect consumers are respected. the question of denied boarding and the many cases of denied boarding which we have to record unfortunately show that every loophole that exists is immediately exploited. it needs our observation, it needs the adjustment. we will therefore probably have to find a solution through a guarantee fund or insurance to adequately protect passengers against such commercial practices. because you just have to look at the history of this last case: there were reports on the last day that everything was fine, and many people relied on it. however, such a solution must ensure that all parties involved make a fair contribution and that there is no situation where a few airlines, including low-cost airlines, sit back and let the others bear the risk. a fair market not only protects passengers, but also protects competitors from unfair practices.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. mr president, would you be sitting here today if there had been italian conditions of berlusconi-style in western europe in the 1970s and 1980s? but what we are also seeing is that it is not only italy that is a problem, but that europe is being connived into a berlusconi. and that is very, very dangerous. as a member of the convention on the rights of the child, i was able to witness firsthand how hard this central issue of media concentration was fought at the time. unfortunately, it was the resistance of certain forces here that failed to advance us. almost ten years later, we're paying the piper. this is a very dangerous development. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. and why, under these conditions, have we not made the progress that so many europeans have been waiting for, and for which they have even led revolutions, where europe is really needed, in this very central area of freedom of the press and of expression? where is the directive? mrs. reding, what are you afraid of? what forces are at work? are they called murdoch or something else? public television in austria 62% of citizens get their information from it. and who controls it? almost exclusively the ruling political parties. if i look at the administrative apparatus in germany, there are also the wrong people at work. we need freedom of the press, not just in italy!
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution on the g20 summit in pittsburgh has many positive aspects. it thus clearly points to the difficulties of the fiscal stimulus measures currently being taken by most countries. the consolidation of government budgets must be given a significant role in the coming years. i also welcome the fact that attempts are being made to tackle the causes of the crisis by pointing to unbridled speculation and the lack of regulation in the financial markets. however, this is only done superficially. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is far too little in view of the enormous crisis we are still in and which will unfortunately still leave us with a large number of unemployed. i therefore abstained.
in writing. the resolution on the g20 summit in pittsburgh explicitly states that the crisis is the result of reckless and irresponsible risk-taking by some financial institutions and a lack of regulation of the financial market. the door to total speculation was wide open. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. the ideas put forward in the motion are sometimes welcome. unfortunately, however, the basel ii rules are also being applied, which, as we know from experience, have led to a near-total withering of the flow of capital to small and medium-sized enterprises. i cannot support the strict abolition of banking secrecy either, given the many small bank customers, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - developing countries are being hit hard by the current financial and economic crisis, which has been caused by banks and other speculators in america. this has a massive impact on their already weak economy and will bring millions more unemployed. the unemployed may seek refuge in europe and thus increase the pressure on europe to migrate. that is why we europeans must help those countries to build up their economies. the current form of development aid is an inappropriate approach, however, because much money disappears in dark channels or bypasses the european bank accounts of corrupt despots. that is why, despite the many positive comments, i abstained in the final vote on the motion by the committee on development.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not it's actually kind of a shameful spectacle. we have made it clear from the outset that there is a case for italy, but we do not want to focus on that. we want to say something about freedom of expression in europe in general. so we chose the title to be about the occasion, but also about general statements. you shouldn't try everything! you've been trying to put off the case for weeks. be honest with me . if you say we want to defend berlusconi no matter what he does, that's an honest position. but now you're pretending to be neutral, to be objective. let's stick to the title, that's reasonable! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a brief remark and a request to you, mr president: we are discussing on thursday, among other things, the appalling death sentences in iran, which are totally unacceptable and are often imposed for so-called crimes which, in our legal sense, are not to be prosecuted at all. we should make it clear on this occasion - and perhaps you should make it clear on another occasion - as the council should - that because we are against violence, we condemn terrorist violence in general, even if it is directed against iranian state bodies. i believe that our objective position will be strengthened if we make it clear that the attack which claimed the lives of 42 people is not in line with our policy. we are fundamentally against violence, against the death penalty, but also against terrorist violence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the immediate vicinity of my home country of upper austria there is an extremely dangerous nuclear power plant, temelín - 127 accidents since 2000 also near vienna mochovce in the slovak republic. both are an unpleasant mix of old soviet architecture and american technology. the whole thing is problematic from a legal point of view, since in both countries the environmental impact assessment is carried out in breach of european law. the parties to the proceedings have no possibility of obtaining judicial review of the final award. this is contrary to article 10 of the community directive on environmental impact assessment. i would ask the community to speak out clearly against these construction projects.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. 'equal pay for equal work' is a principle of the 1957 ec treaty. this principle is still relevant today, because although more and more women are occupying managerial positions, a glaring income gap remains. it is incomprehensible that women, simply because they are women and not men, should be paid less for the same work and certainly for the same quality of work. the benefits to a modern democratic society of finally fully implementing this principle - which is better called a demand - should be clear and obvious to all. it is therefore important to me that something is done to improve the existing laws and paytransparency. a small example from austria: the income gap here is about 28%.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy! if you have just listened to what my predecessor said, then you see very often that if you go too far and too fast, you get the opposite of what you really want. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty for a long time, and it is the european parliament that has been the driving force behind the maastricht treaty. this is what we are experiencing in my country. i come from a country that is divided. in the west, in voralberg and a little further, we are happy about the open borders, and in the east you can see that schengen has gone too far too fast. what you, ladies and gentlemen, are getting in return is a new revanchism and nationalism in my country and elsewhere. let us not hide behind technical debates. let us face these challenges. of course, this must necessarily mean that the european parliament will have the right to vote and that you, mr commissioner, will wait until we have this right or at least grant it to us.
i have to say, madam president, it is known that in 28 countries, of which at least 25 are eu countries, controls on the movement of persons at the common borders have now been abolished. such a degree of freedom of movement does, of course, require a broad basis of trust between the states concerned. it is essential that the free movement of persons be regulated in a sustainable manner by effective accompanying measures. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. we're still miles away from that. the observance of the accompanying mechanisms is therefore an essential factor for the security of eu citizens. my home country, austria, is particularly affected by this because of its geographical proximity to the countries of eastern europe. in this context, we should recall the recent seizure of a refrigerated lorry in austria, carrying 64 illegal kurdish immigrants who were to be smuggled from turkey via hungary and austria to germany. the case shows how important it is to be able to rely on proper and effective surveillance of the external borders, but also how little this is the case! we are also faced with an increase in crime in many parts of europe. this is increasingly due to an organised cross-border gang system. i think that it would be worth considering the possibility of temporarily reintroducing internal border controls. as you know, this proved to be very effective during the 2008 european football championship. since the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the schengen acquis is in any case a key interest of the member states and in particular of their citizens, i believe it is very important that the european parliament, as the representative of the citizens, is involved in the decisions taken in this respect.
thank you, madam president. i shall try to keep to the time of the speech. in principle, we welcome the introduction of sis ii and its functionality. i have done a lot to bring about this system in my time as home secretary in the early years of this millennium. at that time we were promised that it would be introduced in 2007, partly because we urgently needed it for the new member states to participate in the security architecture. the new member states are here, but sis ii is not yet here. the time delay must be ruthlessly analyzed and questioned. there must also be clear consequences. we should learn from the experience for the future. we must acknowledge that the commission has done its best to continue the sis ii project, and has not been able to obtain very good test results. we must, however, be clear that there is no point in making too many compromises here, because this would be at the expense of the stability and reliability of the system. we should therefore avoid any additional financial burden on the member states which might result from the analysis or the tests, and any further delay in the system. but what we need is 100% transparency, and we need very clear language to those who are carrying out the project on behalf of the commission, and that must also mean that there must be financial consequences for those project providers if necessary.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we're talking about politics here, not religion. that is why we should keep facts or empirical facts separate from hypotheses. the fact is that the global temperature has increased by about 0.7 degrees celsius since the pre-industrial era. but it is also a fact that the temperature has barely risen in the last ten years. another fact is that copenhagen is an international conference and that the community's co2 emissions account for about 17% of the world's co2 emissions. the community has already passed legislation requiring a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020. let's look at the hypotheses. one hypothesis is that global temperatures will continue to rise. a second hypothesis is that there is a direct relationship between co2 emissions and the co2 content of the air and the temperature increase, and a third hypothesis is that humans can actually influence the co2 content of the air. there are different scientific opinions on this. this is a dilemma we face as politicians and we must make a decision. but it would be useful to have a second observation to help guide our policy, and this observation shows that all societies that are very energy and resource efficient are very successful. in this context, it is useful to pursue policies that make it possible to be energy and resource efficient, also as a community, so that we can continue to play a leading role in international economic policy, but also to help other countries, in particular the less developed countries, to take this path. if we look at the transfers of funds that are being discussed here, it is a central point that they are very controlled and conditioned, otherwise we are only opening up a second avenue of development aid.
in writing. − if animal welfare transport is detected, the current law requires the authorities to return unvaccinated young animals separated from their mothers much too early to the owner after a 'take-back' for animal welfare reasons. in practice, this is of course shamelessly exploited. the present codification would be a good reason to amend the eu transport regulation accordingly, so that puppies can be permanently removed in non-welfare transport and this back door is closed. unfortunately, this opportunity was missed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare rules are not changed.
in writing. − since diet is an essential factor in the health of the population and animals are one of the essential food commodities, it is particularly important that comprehensive protection be provided in this respect, including veterinary controls. veterinary examinations are particularly important at the external frontiers of the community, especially since the standards in this field in third countries are often not up to european standards. this requires more sensible, uniform and clear legislation to ensure that import controls are applied in the same way at all external borders. the commission's proposal for a codified version of the council directive laying down the basic rules for the veterinary checks on animals entering the community from third countries is a step in this direction and i therefore support it.
in writing. - on the one hand, poultry farming is an essential part of the economic activities in the agricultural sector, where it is a source of income for part of the agricultural labour force. on the other hand, eggs and poultry are among the most common foods. the trade in these products should therefore be regulated in a uniform and clear manner, also in order to protect the health of citizens. the commission's proposal for a codified version of the council directive on animal health conditions governing intra-community trade in and imports from third countries of poultry and hatching eggs is in the interests of farmers and traders in this sector as well as of eu citizens as consumers, and i therefore support it.
in writing. − this agreement between mauritius and the european community provides for visa exemption for nationals of the contracting parties travelling to the territory of each other for a maximum period of three months within a six-month period. i am voting against the conclusion of this agreement because maintaining the visa requirement as a barrier would prevent unwanted immigration, whereas exempting people from the visa requirement for stays of up to three months would allow sufficient time for people who are actually planning to stay permanently to build up social networks.
in writing. − the present reports on the agreements between the european community and numerous small island states such as mauritius or barbados provide for visa exemption for the citizens of the contracting parties when they travel to the territory of the respective other contracting party for a maximum of three months within a six-month period. i am opposed to these facilitations of entry and have therefore voted against the conclusion of these agreements, since the maintenance of the visa requirement is undoubtedly a barrier to criminals and has thus greatly reduced unwanted immigration. in addition, it is likely that persons who stay in the eu for three months under these exemptions will establish numerous contacts and may use them to delve into the illegal activity. the increase in illegal crime must be avoided at all costs.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. the crisis is not just in numbers, it is not just in falling exchange rates or billions of euros to support banks and to revive our economy. it is also reflected in the exploding unemployment rate. the crisis is manifested above all in the very real fears and anxieties of the citizens of the european union. they fear for their jobs, they fear for their pensions. our citizens are concerned about climate change, energy supply and the curtailment of their individual rights in the fight against terrorism. the eu can make a positive contribution to alleviating the legitimate fears of citizens, although at present these procedures need to be made even more effective and efficient. i am thinking in particular of the funds for adaptation to globalisation, as in the case of nokia, and the solidarity fund for the earthquake victims in italy. i am concerned that, in order to ensure that the funds from these funds actually reach the people concerned, these procedures must be made even more efficient and that there must be clear controls, because the globalisation adjustment fund must not be misunderstood as an eu back-up for multinationals. europe has long been a guarantor of peace and prosperity. let us work together to keep it that way. the european union is our europe!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i believe that this budget will also enable us to develop new strategies. i am pleased that the house has decided to support the small business act, after all with €1 million in commitments and €500,000 in payments. commissioner verheugen has promised to use these funds accordingly. we have also increased the research programme for small and mediumsized enterprises. this is particularly important in a crisis situation, and the solvit programme should also be considerably strengthened. the aim is to overcome the barriers of the single market, which often presents a particular challenge for smes. i am pleased that the erasmus for journalists programme is finally on the agenda and that erasmus for young entrepreneurs is working successfully.
the commission has already done so. it is a matter of the european parliament, the council and the commission, and it is a matter of the european parliament, the commission and the council. i have a question for you: how is it that for the last five years i have only had the experience of working with male senior commission staff? how is it that the commission is not gender-balanced? and it looks as if it will not be able to be filled in the future. would it not be good to set an example here, so that we can take much more credible steps?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have many erasmus programmes for students, for young entrepreneurs, and recently for journalists. do you think that erasmus programmes could also be used to improve communication in border regions, and where would you place an emphasis on this?
i'm not going to tell you. in the case of cigarette smuggling, there is a threefold division of flows: the finances, the goods and, ultimately, the accompanying documents. could you imagine introducing a tax or levy on the financial flows that are known and flow here? we know of this type of financial transaction tax, where not the commodity and not the paper, but the financial transactions are heavily taxed. it is a fascinating challenge to think about this with countries like switzerland.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i also thank you for the 280 million euros. i really hope that this money will reach our 40 000 austrian dairy farmers in full, because they may really need it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. commissioner, austria has always been against the abolition of quotas. well, you've made your way and followed it consistently. we are trying to prepare our farmers for this and to help them as much as we can. i cannot understand your proposal for a voluntary quota buyback programme at all. if we do this, it will result in an appreciation and an increase in the price of the very quota you are letting run out. how are we to explain this to the austrian peasants?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. before i turn to institutional matters, i should like to make a brief comment on copenhagen. you are quite right, madam president-in-office, and the president of the commission has stressed that one of the main decisions we have to take now concerns copenhagen. we need binding objectives, not general explanations. this will not be easy, because the americans have not yet completed their legislative process. we will have to make some decisions after copenhagen next year. but at the end of this process, there must be binding targets. it is absolutely necessary. secondly, as far as the financial markets and the economic situation are concerned, it is quite scandalous and provocative what is being paid out in bonuses again. especially in america, but it's coming to europe, too. this is not the central problem, but it shows how many managers still do not understand what is involved in the reorganization of the financial markets, and also the responsibility they have towards the population. madam president, i agree with you that the question of employment policy in particular must now be given priority. it is not just a matter of maintaining the incentives we have in connection with the recovery programme, but also of introducing really new incentives and new elements to promote employment. the president of the commission also responded positively yesterday to what stephen hughes asked for. i am very pleased that at least here there is a consensus that employment policy must be at the centre of our activities in the coming years. let me say something to lisbon. first of all, as regards the missing signature of václav klaus, i expect that the constitutional court will give a positive decision. i think it is unacceptable that the beneš decrees are now being used to open them up again and wait for the signature. i would remind my czech colleagues that before accession, we - madam president of the council, you remember that you were one of our colleagues - were asked to draw up an opinion on the beneš decrees, to see whether they were an obstacle to the czech republic's accession. we were in the majority at the time. the decrees do not have a new effect, but they had an effect at the time they were written. if we say that the beneš decrees were not an obstacle to the accession of the czech republic, it is now unacceptable to use the same decrees to possibly refuse to sign the treaty of lisbon. we must therefore speak a clear language here. the lisbon treaty has two main objectives: firstly, more democracy in europe, that is to say, more parliamentary democracy, especially in the european parliament, (calling out) - yes, you do not want that, because you are not in favour of more democracy - and secondly, more efficiency. the council president, it is now a very important task for you to ensure that in the coming weeks the institutional and personnel issues do not stand in the way of this. president barroso was right to say yesterday that we need a president of the council over whom we have no influence, but who cooperates well with the commission - and i would add with parliament - and who also sees the community method as the centre of the decision-making process. this is very important. we do not need a council president who is a peacock, who shines and who is a force to be reckoned with. we need a president of the council who will work well with us. we need an external service, of course, not only for the reasons mentioned by the president of the commission, which concern efficient regulation, uniformity and a common foreign policy, but also for reasons of parliamentary control. it is not acceptable that something should suddenly be distilled from the treaty of lisbon, which should have brought more parliamentary control, so that we would have less parliamentary control if the foreign office were floating around. i know that you have to find a compromise. but you must note that we - at any rate together with the rapporteur, mr brok - are in full agreement with the president of the commission here that we need a clear structure. but the decisive factor for us is once again parliamentary control, including over the foreign service and over foreign policy by the high representative, of course also in recognition of the role of the council. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the middle east, but that we should be concerned about the situation in the middle east. i hope that we will really implement the lisbon treaty as it was intended: more democracy, more parliamentary control and more efficiency in foreign policy! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have been very busy with this because there are also many sudeten germans living in austria and i recognise their rights, needs and concerns. but we must finally put the ghosts of the past behind us. we must look to the future! and the future is not the future of the beneš decrees, but the future of a free europe with free citizens who have rights under the charter of fundamental rights. that is my vision of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr. farage is going out now. i just hope there's no one in this room who hates what he's put us through. hatred is contrary to the european spirit, and selfishness, protectionism and nationalism are the greatest enemies of the european union's common project. secondly, i hope that there is no one in this chamber who is playing parliamentary democracy against the citizens and who sees a dividing line between us and our role as representatives of the citizens, as he has suggested. we can all feel the crackle before the summit. we hope for the decisive, liberating pass of the constitutional court. we expect the council to live up to its responsibility for europe, not to be held hostage by one person, and to take the necessary decisions in terms of staff, institutions, time, content and finances. i would also like to appeal to governments not to look for the lowest common denominator when selecting and nominating commissioners, but to look for the best solution for the community of which we are a part. i call on the governments not to play the well-known partisan games in the selection of commissioners, but to put the common european responsibility at the centre of the selection of staff. i ask the president of the commission to set an ambitious demand profile for the commissioners and the member states. the second point is financial market supervision. i welcome the macro-surveillance, but it is far from over. we also need micro-monitoring, and the commission's proposal is, in my view, the lowest common denominator, the minimum. we must go further, we must have a european financial market supervision with a right of initiative, similar to the european central bank. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. according to the commission, the number of registered illegal immigrants has increased by around 63%. the eurodak database recorded 62 000 sets of fingerprints of illegally intercepted persons in 2008, not to mention the number of those who were not intercepted. my home country, austria, is a particularly popular destination because of its geographical location, with devastating consequences. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union does not become a victim of the terrorist attacks in the balkans. the burden of the steadily increasing number of illegal - i emphasise illegal - immigrants is intolerable for eu citizens in the long term. and if we do not solve this problem quickly, we need not be surprised by a growing eu-skepticism and resignation among our citizens. i therefore ask the european council to take this matter into account on 29 and 30 june.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. let me make three comments on the forthcoming council meeting. firstly, i believe that the irish 'yes' is primarily due to the financial crisis, and last year banks were reorganized with taxpayer money. now the bankers are expecting record salaries again. the eu will certainly be judged on its ability to stop the waste of billions of taxpayers' money in this area. secondly, thanks to the lisbon treaty, new eu top positions are now being filled. the technical qualifications are obviously of secondary importance, since the candidates are mostly former politicians who have failed democratically in their home countries and have been voted out of office. and who is to represent the eu now? the president of the council, the high representative or the president of the commission? we're going to have chaos. and the third point, mr president: if the treaty of lisbon is now signed in the czech republic by president václav klaus, on condition that he receives a footnote stating that the beneš decrees, which are contrary to international and human rights, will remain in force, then there will be two basic rights: for germans, for sudeten germans and for the others. this can't be!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we always talk about - and this is really in quotes - an 'economic and financial crisis'. why are we not talking about a structural crisis? because it started with a veritable banking crisis, including investment banking, an industry, and the entire world economy was affected.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the united left has been blowing the whistle on the attack and the settlement of accounts with berlusconi. the media's high concentration in italy is presented as a threat to freedom of expression and democracy. everything that is not left must therefore be fought. the joint motion for a resolution by the greens, social democrats, communists and liberals also calls for the eu to have a role in monitoring media diversity, as it is aptly called. i am strongly opposed to this, since the member states alone have the power to do so. it is precisely because the freedom of the media and of expression for the fpö and for me personally is one of the most precious assets in democracy that must be defended that i had to speak out against these attempts at interference in party politics and vote against the joint motion for a resolution by the left.
in writing. - there are undoubtedly significant deficiencies in freedom of information in italy, especially since the italian prime minister berlusconi, through his political position and his additional media empire, concentrates the majority of television stations directly or indirectly in his sphere of influence. however, this is not a problem specific to italy: for example, in france, a constitutional reform introduced the provision that the president of the republic appoints the chairman of the public television broadcaster (groupe france télévision: france 2-5), which has led to considerable controversy within france. (in addition, the ceo of the largest private television channel tf1 was sarkozy's son-in-law and is therefore very closely associated with him.) the case in question could therefore be more partisan and directed against mr berlusconi by the european union than a genuine struggle for freedom of the media and information. i therefore vote against the motion for a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council acts in an opaque manner. in fact, decisions are taken in the many working groups, which are often opaque, and in coreper. only 1% of the items on the foreign affairs council's agenda were publicly debated in 2008. it is precisely in this context that the esdp has developed since the end of the 1990s, far from any participation or democratic control. it is in this context that the european external action service is to be developed. i'm going to say no. this can't be! this can't be! we need real democratic parliamentary control and we also need real transparency. i am also a little surprised that you, mr brok, are now suddenly advocating parliamentary control. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. but that's the contract you're for! and when we talk about budgetary control, we can of course see quite clearly how your group is acting in the discharge to the council. i am not saying that the council should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i am sorry to say that your draft has very good ideas, but it is hypocritical, it is not credible and it is, in effect, an admission of the failings of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. what was not promised by the lisbon treaty: the eu should become more responsive and democratic, the european parliament should have more say and citizens should express their popular aspirations for the eu. in fact, however, member states were put under pressure by the threat of the withdrawal of commissioners. now the eu could show good will and finally ask the people to join turkey. but referendums seem to be there only to be ignored. it is also a mystery how much more responsive the eu is to be if the treaty only lays down the responsibilities of the newly created jobs. conflicts are as likely to arise here as in the newly created foreign service with uncertain access rights. we already have an increasingly expensive emergency budget with an increasingly dense network of different eu agencies, which inevitably involves duplication and overlap of competences. the balance must therefore be maintained so that the new system does not create duplication but rather synergies, and does not circumvent parliamentary control and impede the member states, and does not restrict national competences. in all of this, the new body must also have the necessary skills to carry out its tasks and to work efficiently with europe's strategic partners.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has already been mentioned that with obama and the new majority in congress we have a great opportunity to intensify cooperation, especially in the common transatlantic market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i agree with mr brok, of course, on the basis of legislation, whether it is financial regulation or environmental and energy regulation. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt. one area which has already been touched upon and which we have been able to discuss this morning is certainly the central issue of climate policy. many of us will be in washington in the next few days, where we'll be talking to our congressional colleagues. even if the legislation on climate policy is not yet ready, there is at least a quasi-authorization for representatives of the american government to make binding commitments, even if they have to be specified in detail only after the american legislation. copenhagen must be a success. it is not the end of a process, but it is an important step in the process of common climate policy, and we all need to see that copenhagen is a success. and it will only succeed if there are binding climate policy goals. finally, and this has already been mentioned, we cannot accept certain things in spite of all the friendship and love and despite the good relationship. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is important to speak with the united states on an equal footing, to have a partnership, but also to say what we cannot accept, namely a policy which discriminates against us europeans.
in writing. there is no doubt that economic relations between the us and the eu need to be nurtured. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. on the contrary, it is time to learn from the economic crisis, which originated in the uncontrolled financial markets of the united states! europe must preserve its economic independence and find its own way out of the crisis, especially as billions of dollars of bonuses are being paid out on the new york stock exchange at this very hour. i therefore call for a strengthening of the european position within the framework of the transatlantic economic council! in april 2009, at the eu/us summit in prague, us president obama urged the european union to accept turkey as a full member soon; the eu will thus contribute to a better understanding with the islamic world. the us support for its strategic nato ally (which paved the way for rasmussen to become secretary-general of nato) must not lead to an acceleration of the negotiations on full membership. turkey will not become a candidate for accession even if the united states is behind it, because the massive cultural, geographical, economic and political differences are not diminishing. the eu should also take a clear stand on this issue vis-à-vis the usa!
in writing. the further strengthening of eu-us relations at the transatlantic economic council is an important step in times of economic crisis and preparations for the copenhagen climate conference. in the field of the environment, the conversation must be directed above all to novel foodstuffs. the possibilities and perspectives of nanotechnologies are relevant here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. europe should not shy away from making the concerns of some member states clear to its trading partner. in the area of chemicals and toxic substances, there is a need to work towards high safety standards and better coordination. this not only facilitates trade and economic relations, but above all guarantees to final consumers in europe that they are protected from toxic substances in the environment and in their products. the constructive dialogue ensures that eu-us relations remain of a special importance.
i have to say, madam president, the rapporteur naturally concentrates in her remarks mainly on the situation of member states from which parts of the population emigrate to seek work elsewhere. i understand that too. austria, on the other hand, like germany, a country with massive immigration, was able to obtain an extension of the transitional periods until the total opening of the labour market. the reasons were clear. negative displacement and distribution effects in the context of large income disparities - especially now in the context of the unfavourable development of the labour market - and increased immigration would have led to a considerable overload of the labour market and thus to social tensions that we all do not want. i would therefore ask whether these problems, as they are in austria and germany, will be recognised and whether solutions will be found to them.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to join the previous speakers in warmly congratulating mrs tagliavini and her team for the report they were able to deliver. the report made it very clear that both sides were responsible for the escalation to the conflict that finally took place in august 2008. it is clear that russia had been building up a military presence in south ossetia, which was georgian territory. however, it is also clear that those provocations led to an overreaction by georgia’s president saakashvili. it is important to have said that both sides were responsible, and we now have to look at how things can develop in the future. that was the very big achievement of this report. i also agree very much with everybody who has said that the territorial integrity of georgia, and of all countries, has to be respected. international law has to be respected. however, it is also important to look into some of the reasons: the aggressive language, xenophobic language and nationalistic language that were part of the build-up to this conflict. another thing is to ask what the eu will do now. we have a monitoring mission, which is important, but it has to have access to all parts of georgia in order to support displaced persons and others. in our discussions now - the member of the commission has suggested moving to a free-trade zone with georgia, and parliament will be discussing microfinancial assistance for georgia - it is clear that the eu also has to consider placing conditions on georgia, for example to reduce the amount of its military budget. the defence budget has been building up over the past years in georgia, which is then short in other areas, such as social issues, civil society and media freedom. the eu has to monitor that very closely. in brief, it is important that the eu support the efforts to tone down the aggressive language, and financial assistance has to come with conditions.
i have to say, madam president, the 2008 caucasus conflict, also known as the five-day war, was a regrettable armed military conflict on georgian territory between georgia and russia, which also affected the so-called "separatist provinces" of south ossetia and abkhazia. in view of the unfortunately often very one-sided coverage of the facts and background of the war by the international media, i would like to make a few clarifications here: the united states condemned russia's military action in the strongest terms, portraying it as a mere show of intimidation and power, and defended georgia's position. first of all, russia was not the aggressor in this case, but acted in response to saakashvili's declaration of war. the latter was well aware that he faced a superior adversary in implementing his reunification programme, but he counted on the backing of nato and the usa. so he decided to take back the rebellious provinces by force. the russian reaction was undoubtedly exaggerated, but it was in what is known as a situation of emergency defence under international law. the us support for georgia was therefore clearly not only aimed at protecting the democratic right to self-determination, but also - and this must be said - at military policy objectives, especially as georgia acted as a strategic vassal state in the caucasus on the russian border. the georgians should be cautious about the us backing. i am not going to go into the details of the situation in hungary, but i would like to say that the situation in hungary is very different from that in the united states. however, the outcome was disastrous: the hungarians were abandoned by the western world in their struggle for freedom. finally, i would like to refer to the report of 30 september 2009: the commission of inquiry set up by the eu council of ministers explained in detail that the international legal justifications put forward by georgia for the attack are legally invalid.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to make a suggestion to you: human rights, democracy and the rule of law are too important and urgent to be discussed this afternoon on a thursday. unfortunately, there are only a few of us left. a month ago we were talking about the murder of journalists, today we are talking about the disastrous human rights situation in guinea, iran and sri lanka. i know many of us share my opinion. let us find a better time, another date, for this important debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to say that we should keep the new proposal, because it is clear that the negotiations in honduras have failed. there is no common proposal for this election. this election is illegitimate because the current president came to power through a coup. that is to say, i ask the house to give its consent to the bureau's proposal for this amendment, that the elections be withdrawn.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president of the council! mr president of the commission! perhaps it is a coincidence - but a happy coincidence - that this debate takes place immediately after václav havel's speech. a man who reminded us of the importance of this trial 20 years ago. i was born just a few miles west of the iron curtain, it could have been the other way around. i was in the soviet occupation zone at the time, and i saw the hungarian refugees of 1956, the refugees of the prague spring of 1968, for example my colleague libor rouček. and i see the lisbon treaty as a complement to this process of bringing europe together. it was probably not václav klaus' intention to complete the ratification process in the month in which we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. but it is a fortunate coincidence that this treaty is coming into force de facto now, although it will be legally effective a little later. and now we have to make the personnel decisions. i do not envy you, mr president-in-office, for this task. but i have a request or a question for you: are you prepared to ensure, in a dialogue with the heads of government in the coming days, that we also achieve a certain geographical balance in this europe, which corresponds to the new europe? are you prepared to make sure that perhaps stronger women are represented? i am not saying this just because of mrs malmström and mrs wallström sitting here. can europe today afford to occupy top positions - and this is also addressed to my own group - in which so few women are represented? is this the image europe presents to its people today? the president of parliament has already said so. it is not your fault if it does not happen, but i ask you to at least point out in the discussions that we need better geographical and, above all, gender representation in europe to signal that we represent the entire european population. you spoke of the high commissioner. are you prepared, mr president-in-office, to ensure that it is made clear that if you nominate a high representative, he will not take up his full functions until ratification or the decision of this parliament? i know that there is a time difference, but it must be clear that the high commissioner, in this joint function as vice-president of the commission, needs parliament's approval. we're going to have to do this very carefully and conscientiously. it must be clear that we are doing our job in this area and, in general, mr president of the commission, i think we can promise that we will conduct these hearings in an orderly and careful manner, but also with a view to reaching decisions as quickly as possible, because the citizens of europe demand that we work and reach decisions quickly and not spend months talking about people. the last point i would like to make here is the so-called financial crisis which you mentioned, because that is also something which is of great concern to us. you have rightly mentioned unemployment, which will continue to rise. they also said that we cannot stop the aid measures as long as unemployment is at this level. the citizens also expect us not to accept the high unemployment rate we have now in this new europe. there is also the debate on the financial transaction tax. i know it has been awarded five times to others, but it is probably also an important debate to signal that we are serious about control, not because we want to impose heavy taxes now. but we should make it clear that we want to use all the instruments that can help to curb speculation and that, above all, there are resources to help those banks which are still in difficulty, to prevent a new crisis. and we need to send clear signals. the head of goldman sachs recently said, "you have to let that sink in: i'm just a banker doing god's work". this is certainly a particularly cynical and perhaps blasphemous expression, but it shows the consciousness with which some of these people act. you speculate in the name of god, to put it very rudimentarily. we do not want to claim that by regulating our finances we are doing god's work, but human work, protecting the people of this continent from unemployment and speculation, that is what we must do. i hope that you will be able to set some signs in this direction during the swedish presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. democracy needs a revolution and it is never wrong, mr dartmouth, to speak out for transparency, mr verhofstadt. and you, in particular, in the swedish presidency of the council, could be a shining example and then really tell us how the very unworthy post-mortem search for the top positions for the european project will have gone and also - mr barroso could go ahead - in appointing the commissioners. germany and austria are a negative example, but others are unfortunately also. qualified people are sitting in this room, but they have no access. i would ask you to be brave now that the treaty of lisbon has been adopted and to be honest and say: we need much clearer and more transparent decisionmaking structures for the commission and for the top positions. it should be possible to find the right people in the european parliament with so much expertise and not to gather them in some of the länder.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. twenty years ago we peacefully ended the violent division of europe into freedom and dictatorship. the european union is the political project that will make possible the reunification of our continent. the european union is the political project which aims to extend the area of peace, freedom, democracy and stability in europe. we have a responsibility to strengthen the community of values and the community of law. we should do everything we can, and contribute today, so that the joy of what has been achieved gives us the strength and the determination not to build new walls and barbed wire between the people of our continent and the world. the treaty of lisbon is the greatest democratic boost since the first direct elections thirty years ago, and it gives the european union, the institutions, the chance and the opportunity to become the voice of the continent. but we must seize this opportunity! we must have the political will to implement and enforce the treaty. and if we have the political will, then that also means that we have to say goodbye to always looking for the lowest common denominator. every opt-out weakens the community. we have stopped the crises only when unemployment has fallen sustainably and growth has returned to a sustainable level without multibillion-dollar packages that are driving our public deficits to dramatic heights. the last sentence is also clear: thinking in a european way means looking at each other and looking for the best solutions. the staff debates of the last few days have given rise to the fear that we are not looking for the best, not for european solutions, but for the simplest solutions for the member states and the political parties. this is the wrong response to the developments of recent years and to the treaty of lisbon!
in writing. what happened a few days ago at the european council summit is scandalous and shakes all faith in the community of values so often emphasised by the eu. they wanted klaus to sign at all costs, even to indirectly acknowledge that historical wrong. the beneš decrees led to the mass deportation and the declaration of approximately 2.9 million people as enemies of the state until 1947, and to the tragic death of some 230 000 people on the basis of their nationality alone. the decrees are not directed against persons on the basis of specific crimes committed; the only link is ethnicity. today this would be called ethnic cleansing, which would have to be openly rejected by all the member states. legally, the deportees were denied both the right to a presumption of innocence, to a regular trial, and to adequate compensation in the event of expropriation. in fact, in his 1991 legal opinion, professor felix ermacora, an expert in international law and former un expert, concluded that the expulsion had met the criteria of genocide. despite all this, klaus was granted a derogation without substantive justification to ensure the non-application of the eu charter of fundamental rights. however, the footnote will not enter into force until iceland and croatia ratify it. compensation claims could be brought within this time window.
the commission has already done so. the georgian war, the gas dispute and the inability of the european union to agree on a somewhat unified line towards russia have left their mark. russia is undoubtedly an important strategic partner for europe, not only in terms of energy supply. whether the new memorandum on the prevention of energy crises and the european early warning system are worth the paper they are printed on will soon be seen, at the latest when the next gas dispute comes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas supply to the community is not reduced to a mere mere pipeline. it would be naive to think that tehran could not put pressure on europe. i believe that the european union must pursue a reasonable and realistic policy towards russia. it must strike a balance between european and russian interests and respect russia's historical sensibilities, including geopolitical ones. otherwise we may soon have to fear not only a bilateral ice age but also that citizens in europe will be freezing to death because of the gas dispute.
i have to say, madam president, yes, we must take russia seriously, as mr kowal said, especially after the signing of the treaty of lisbon, and it is interesting that the president of the republic, who for a long time refused to sign the treaty, has taken a particularly uncritical attitude towards russia, namely václav klaus. to take russia seriously means to develop a reasonable relationship, a pragmatic economic relationship with russia, but not to be uncritical of internal political developments and above all of human rights issues. we have noted with great regret what the last elections have shown, namely that some things are obviously not going in the right direction. we are of course particularly concerned about the attacks on human rights defenders. i don't want to blame these attacks on the russian government. what i am asking for, and what we are asking for in this resolution, which is a very balanced one, is that russia takes the protection of these human rights defenders seriously. this is not happening, at least not to a sufficient degree. the european union has a duty to help the people of the region. the differences may not be very great, but if anyone is taking a more enlightened, positive stance, it is certainly president medvedev, and we should encourage and support him in that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i have nothing against north stream, i have nothing against south stream, but i do not want to be dependent on anyone, on any country for gas supply. that's why i'm all for the nabucco pipeline. diversity, diversification - that's the key to gas supply, whether it's through another pipeline, like nabucco, or through lng ports. and not because the country is called russia, but because europe should not depend on anyone. if ukraine is now involved, i would like the ukrainian politicians to take full responsibility and implement the investments agreed with europe. i know that russia often takes advantage of the situation, but if ukraine keeps its promises, then russia will not be able to take advantage of the situation because the corresponding investments have been made in ukraine.
in writing. in our ageing society, the number of neurodegenerative diseases such as alzheimer's or dementia will continue to rise. to prepare for this in the best possible way, we need to improve the research structures and make better use of the existing facilities. the planned pilot project in this area is an ideal starting point to better link up current research efforts. prevention is important, along with the best possible care for those affected. member states are encouraged to promote information campaigns on active living.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by joining the words of my predecessor and express my sincere thanks to both rapporteurs, mrs fajon and mrs sarah ludford, on behalf of the afet and libe committees, and also to the shadow rapporteurs. we have succeeded in making a proposal, in making a demand to the commission and the council, to make a comprehensive package here for all the people of the entire western balkans and not to leave some outside. i very much hope - and i am addressing this to commissioner barrot - that you will be able to convince the council that the objective of visa liberalisation will also be achieved for kosovo, that the dialogue will start now and that visa liberalisation will be achieved for bosnia and albania by the middle of next year at the latest. i wish it was sooner. let me get something straight. of course, it's about implementation, but i heard that in serbia, not everything has been implemented yet. i'd like to know what you think of that. it's important to implement everything. thank you to everyone who has worked with us, and i hope that all people... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask all those in the epp who have advocated the european union sending election observers to honduras today, on this day when václav havel spoke in this house about the freedom won in eastern europe 20 years ago: what would you have said if, more than 20 years ago, the european union had declared that it was sending election observers to an illegitimate election in one of your countries? what everyone said, there is no freedom there. there is a climate of violence there. there is uncertainty. what would you have said then, more than 20 years ago, if the eu had said: yes, we are sending election observers there because the regime that is now in office says it is okay.? they all said it was illegitimate for the european union to send election observers there. that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the epp, i ask you today to apply the same criteria to what is happening in honduras. that is to say, no election observers to an illegitimate election! i would also like to thank the commission for taking this very position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. young students have asked me to report to the european parliament's plenary on current events and incidents in austria and also in parts of germany. mr ombudsman, i apologize for accepting your request at this stage. under the slogan 'die uni brennt' (the union is burning), a socio-political movement has been forming in austria for weeks, the likes of which have not been seen in austria and other parts of europe for decades. thousands of students are demonstrating, they're taking to the streets, they're occupying lecture halls. they are calling for education instead of training, they are calling for the democratization of universities and, above all, for free access to education. one of its main criticisms is the criticism of the bologna process. for example, there is a banner at the main university in vienna which says: "let bologna be the process!" for years, conventional politicians have hailed the bologna process as a decisive step towards a european education area that would make us much more competitive. but what we're left with is a very rigid scheme, semi-privatised universities that want to make educational output predictable. but science is something quite different from a planned process. it's the way enlightened people communicate and articulate. scientific curiosity and scientific creativity cannot be planned either, as this movement proves once again. we should support it for that, it is a living democracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a member of the committee on petitions, i am concerned to be able to represent the interests of citizens even better. i would like to see the wider public aware of the possibility of bringing their problems to parliament. this is particularly true in the light of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to wish you, mr ombudsman, a much more successful career than you have had so far.
in writing. the eu is a jungle not only in terms of funding, but also in terms of its responsibilities, decision-making processes and even its internet presence. in short, for the average citizen, the eu remains a book with seven seals. and this is precisely where the treaty of lisbon could have started, could have provided for greater transparency, for a europe of european peoples of culture and of nation states that have grown historically in an equal partnership, diverse, federalist and subsidiary at home, but united and strong at home in the representation of european interests. but there seems to be little interest in transparency council decisions and the election of the eu commission president are held behind closed doors. a common internet presence requires the consistent use of the eu's official languages, english, french and german, which can be used to reach the majority of eu citizens. the presidency of the council should take note of this! the establishment and work of the eu ombudsman is a step in the right direction, but more efforts are needed to close the gap with the citizen. the most important would be referenda on key issues, the results of which would then have to be respected. and certainly not with the beneš decrees, wrongdoing must be legitimized. for second-class citizens, an ombudsman is no longer helpful.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to table the following amendment, which is tabled in agreement with the applicant. i read the text in english:condemns the brutal assassination of maksharip aushev, a popular human rights activist and an opposition figure who was shot dead in ingushetia; then we would have a deletion, but it would continue as follows: calls in particular on the russian authorities to adopt preventive protective measures as regards human rights defenders, such as starting an investigation as soon as threats faced by them are known by the prosecutor and the judicial system; this would have a clear message, and therefore i would like to support that kind of amendment, together with the green group, which has put the amendment to the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to comment on the paliadeli report because i believe that the european ombudsman is actually supposed to represent the citizens of the european union. but last year he did something that is completely contrary to that mandate, because he let himself be bought and used by economic interests. he has asked the commission to take action against the fact that several countries have banned wildlife from circuses. and i don't think that's his job. it is not his job to protect the few circus operators who still work with wild animals and not to support the vast majority of people who very much support this ban on wild animals and who are satisfied with circuses without wild animals. i therefore do not regard his action in this case as positive and have voted against the report.
in writing. - the abolition of the visa requirement for serbia, montenegro and macedonia is to be welcomed as it was recommended by the commission after careful consideration and compliance with conditions. the inclusion of bosnia-herzegovina and albania is, however, to be rejected. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left behind. kosovo can only maintain its administration with massive eu aid at the moment, so there is no point in negotiating visa-free travel at this stage. we must communicate better the reasons for the decisions, but we must also make it clear to albania, kosovo and bosnia that they still have a long way to go before they are ready for europe.
in writing. − for five western balkan countries - albania, bosnia and herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia - the conditions and possibilities for visa facilitation were discussed. the commission proposal states that macedonia, montenegro and serbia have met most of the targets and are therefore to be exempted from the visa requirement. the report also provides for reference to the progress made by albania, bosnia and herzegovina and the corresponding early inclusion of these countries in the positive list for visa exemption. in view of the potential for illegal migration emanating from the above countries, and the worrying radical islamic tendencies, particularly in bosnia, herzegovina and albania, i am voting against the adoption of the present report. in addition, my home country, austria, would be particularly affected by the geographical proximity of the western balkans. the visa requirement in the states concerned acts as a barrier to unwanted immigration and should therefore be maintained until further notice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the draft commission decision on the progress microfinance facility, as i believe it is imperative that the legislative procedure be completed before any further steps are taken. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
in writing. the european council welcomes the progress made in the implementation of the eu-russia summit and the commission's efforts to promote the eu's relations with russia. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the eu is also trying to prevent russia from negotiating energy projects with individual eu countries. the unilateral stance on the georgian conflict, clearly taking the side of georgia, is contrary to the eu's role as an independent and impartial observer. the whole tone of the request does not help to improve relations with this country which is important for europe. i therefore voted against this resolution.
in writing. - there is no doubt that there are democratic and rule of law deficits in russia. but i think that it is the wrong way to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries, especially since the eu cannot be a model of democracy. i also think that the one-sided view of the georgian conflict is wrong. i have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution on the eu-russia summit.
in writing. − in europe, around 7 million people suffer from neurodegenerative diseases. with an aging population, that number is likely to double in the next few decades! in addition, in the field of neurodegenerative disorders, there are unfortunately so far only treatments to slow down the disease process, but not in terms of prevention and actual cure. dementia and alzheimer's in particular are causing enormous health costs: the annual cost of just one dementia patient is estimated at around 21 000 euros. additional costs are incurred by the complications of such a disease, as patients tend to avoid examination for additional physical ailments and often react unwisely to medical treatment. europe is facing a major health challenge, and sharing knowledge, best practice and methods in the context of joint research across europe is certainly a sensible approach. i therefore support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the excessive number of amending budgets may give the impression that the eu is not capable of planning. and i'm sure you're not entirely wrong about that. just think of the ever-growing network of eu agencies with ever-increasing budgets and the potential overlap and duplication of competences that this entails. this is also the case for the new external service created by the lisbon treaty, which will need to design the eu budget in such a way that the new system avoids duplication and allows for synergies, avoids parliamentary control, does not impede the member states and does not restrict national competences. the present amending budget is probably premature because of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, as some points still seem to be unclear, and that is why i voted against it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one in seven europeans belongs to an ethnic minority. the protection of indigenous minorities in europe is nevertheless a shadow. while brussels never tires of assuming all the responsibilities of the member states, the commission declares minority conflicts to be the affair of the states concerned, on the grounds of non-interference in their internal affairs. there is no uniform approach in europe, and international law is applied very differently in the various countries. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. in austria, on the other hand, there is a slovenian minority which has all the opportunities for development. i believe that these wide disparities demonstrate the need for a european law for ethnic groups. if europe is to preserve its historically developed ethnic diversity, it is essential to draw up a european law on ethnic groups for indigenous minorities that is binding under international law. the eu could thus prove that it sees the preservation of national diversity in europe as more than mere lip service.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in times of climate change and global warming, it's clear that we need to reduce greenhouse gases and conserve energy. the eu is trying to be a pioneer in this area, sometimes more and sometimes less successful. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. there is a very successful company in my constituency, austria email ag, which manufactures electrically operated hot water storage tanks. in austria in particular, this is very practical and very good, since a large part of our electricity is produced from hydropower and is therefore a very environmentally friendly energy. the ecodesign directive now seems to prohibit these storage systems in the future, but instead encourages gas storage systems or gas furnaces, which in my view are not useful at all, but are much less environmentally friendly than these storage systems. in addition, 400 jobs are currently at risk in my own country. that is not the point, that is a bad development. if environmental protection is a good thing, then it is certainly a good thing, and above all it is appropriate, but not in this case, where jobs are being put at risk for a product which does not really seem to make sense.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last thursday, murders of unimaginable cruelty became public knowledge in peru. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. are these reports true? in any case, these are murders of unimaginable cruelty. we are all now, as recipients of these cruel messages, busy trying to find out if all these colporteurised messages are actually true. the fact is that we should at all costs get to the bottom of this matter here in europe, to exclude that european pharmaceutical companies or european cosmetics companies, such as colporteurs, are in any way connected with these unimaginably cruel murders.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the difficult debates in the mediation process had a central and important reason, namely the realization of fundamental rights and freedoms on the internet, especially the consideration of rule of law procedures. these cannot be overridden by the interests of individual economic powers on the net, because they defend with teeth and claws an outdated copyright system that is not internet-ready. we need a whole new system for protecting the rights of creatives online that we need to develop together. but we must be consistent in protecting the rights of citizens, even monitoring the implementation in the member states. it was the council that did not agree with the protection of these rights and would have liked to have dropped them. we must fight this power struggle to protect the rights of citizens and we must win it. no member state can any longer sneak away from this obligation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner very warmly. the telecommunications legislation of the last five years has shown that europe is moving forward honestly and consistently, thanks to the commitment and the ability to put it into the right terms. i would like to thank the staff, but above all the rapporteurs. we have seen new generations of technology emerge, and these new generations - such as the fourth generation lte network - need a place in the european single market. we need to make a sensible use of the digital dividend and we need data roaming in the spirit of a single market. i see here some great tasks for the future. but there was also a very hard and intense debate about the freedom of the internet. i want to thank everyone involved. on the other hand, we still need to act on intellectual property in order to take the necessary steps in the next election period. i am also particularly pleased that the national regulators have now been given additional rights over berec. its task is to help national industries and national consumers to enforce their rights in the other 26 countries. there is a great need for action by national regulators because we have a starting point here to expand the digital space in the future not only in europe but to give europe a leading position internationally.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a good thing that recently, thanks to europol's activities, smuggling organisations have been able to be broken up again to smuggle in illegal migrants. it is also welcome that europol will be able to take action in the future against all serious forms of international crime. of course, it is a good thing in principle when the various authorities cooperate in fighting crime. the question of data protection is not at all settled in the case of the planned unrestricted access of all authorities. we are being fed the promise of a data protection officer, of whom it is not even clear what rights of review he has. the national data protection officers are already reaching their limits too quickly, with little scope for intervention and little change. the situation will probably not be much different at eu level either. in the name of fighting terrorism, civil liberties and civil liberties have been increasingly curtailed over the past decade. if the ministers of justice and home affairs want to pass the financial transactions agreement now, before the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament a say in this matter, and they want to do so quickly, it is probably only because they know that there are massive data protection concerns and because they know that they cannot get away with the swift agreement. if the national security authorities are not even granted this right by the constitution, why should europol and, through the eu back door, the usa in particular, be granted it without restriction? i think we should put a stop to this attack on data protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much for your understanding of parliament's clear position on the procedural question. we do not reject the proposals of the council and the commission, but we want to help shape them. that is the decisive point for our vote. it is clear that europol is one of the success stories of the european union. in particular, in the fight against drug crime, trafficking in human beings, terrorist financing and counterfeiting, europol acts as a hub for the exchange of information and a hub for existing police cooperation networks. it is very important that this be developed further. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the directive. we need the exchange of data, we need the connection within the police in the european union. we need that to fight terrorism and crime successfully. but we also need to do so - and we must say it with the same clarity - to safeguard the rights of european citizens. there is a european spirit here, there are clear european values, which were also reaffirmed by a large majority in the resolution on swift in the middle of september here in parliament. what we must ask of the council and the commission is that this basic line, these guidelines, be implemented now in the negotiations with america. we need this to protect the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. democracy needs a revolution. i always say that now, and i say it with particular emphasis to you, mr president. what are you doing here? they make life unnecessarily difficult for people who share the european ideals but who, for reasons of principle, do not want to belong to any political group, and they thus take advantage of their situation. what am i referring to? the first paragraph of article 192 - which was enforced in a hush-hush action - many people did not notice - allows the political groups to appoint a coordinator. in the past, mr president, there was always the addition: 'the same applies to the non-attached members.' that was not interpreted as such. i wrote you a letter. two months later, you answered me and simply repeated the paragraph. please read this letter again. i hope you will understand that you are now in the process of reducing a parliament which i support in principle to a two-tier parliament. with your personal history, how can you do this? because we, as non-partisans, have no way of actually getting the relevant information in time and being able to actively participate in the decision on reports and the like. the rules of procedure must be changed to that end! i would also like to know why mr corbett, who was voted out by the extreme right because he does such things, is able to sit in the plenary as a sort of supervisor tonight. this is a two-tier parliament. we're gonna have to sue, but i'd like to avoid that lawsuit.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the continuing economic and structural crisis has shown how the international community can provide large sums of money in a short time to alleviate the acute situation, even if the method is sometimes debatable. the crisis continues to show that the most diverse states can cooperate when there are larger, overarching goals. like the structural crisis, the dramatic climate change is largely of our own making. the aim - and i am talking about the aim of mankind - must be to manage the resources of our planet in a sustainable and balanced way. we want to preserve the diversity of the biosphere for future generations. if we succeed in creating a framework at european level which promotes science, innovation and modern, environmentally friendly technologies, green technologies and renewable energies, then we europeans can achieve two objectives. firstly, we are all making a positive contribution to reducing climate-damaging co2 emissions and thus to achieving greater independence from fossil fuels. secondly, if we increase our support for science and environmentally friendly technologies, europe will remain the centre of innovation in the long term. this is the only way to create jobs in europe in the long term.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. albert einstein once said, "let's make things as simple as possible, but not simpler". we must be careful not to fall into that trap. we are now fooling ourselves that certain weather phenomena - such as the flooding in ireland - are directly linked to climate change. we also say that the global temperature rise that is inevitable across the continents is directly related to the co2 levels of the earth, which are caused by humans and have increased slightly. there are scientists who doubt these causalities, and we should keep that in mind as we go to copenhagen now. we should go there with optimism, but also with realism. europe is responsible for only 10% of co2 emissions. there's nothing to shake about. at the same time, we know that the united states, china and the apec countries, which are responsible for two-thirds of the world's carbon emissions, are very critical of the whole issue. it is not so much a question of racing the numbers and reducing by 20 or 30%, but of trying to achieve a global agreement, not a european one, but of trying to achieve binding targets for all, which are then also controlled and, above all, respected. it is equally important that we take our citizens and businesses with us. it is of no use to anyone if europe is at risk of carbon leakage and the factories that produce twice as energy efficient here in europe as in other parts of the world are leaving. it also does no one any good if different countries around the world cut down rainforests. in brazil, 12,500 square kilometers of rainforest were cut down last year. karl-heinz florenz has quoted borneo. that is why it is much more important to stop the current situation than to join this race for numbers. i therefore ask the negotiators to go to copenhagen with realism and not too much optimism.
i have to say, madam president, climate change and sustainable development are issues that should be seen as affecting us all. but without close cooperation - in particular with the global players - sufficient progress will not be achieved. as long as the us and china do not want to commit themselves to joint, binding reductions in greenhouse gases, only morally binding decisions, i.e. decisions without teeth, will be taken in copenhagen, as the un climate chief rightly noted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the positive effects are minimal, the costs are enormous, and the risks are very high. i therefore support a resolution drawn up by the anti-nuclear commissioner of my home region of upper austria calling for the eu to introduce a levy on nuclear electricity. this idea makes sense because the trading of emission allowances would not be geared towards nuclear power.
in writing. − i very much welcome the fact that the regulation on statistics on plant protection products now provides a common legal framework for the collection and dissemination of data on the placing on the market and use of pesticides. there is no doubt that risk minimisation is a priority for both human health and the environment. this is now made possible by harmonised risk indicators and reliable data from all member states. however, i would like to emphasize that the additional administrative burden of collecting data should not be borne by our farmers. for example, by avoiding the repetitive collection of existing data, synergies can be exploited, which means a reduction in red tape and additional burdens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the basic rules for the granting of community financial aid for transeuropean networks. these networks are of great importance for the development of transport infrastructure in europe. the new regulation clearly defines the conditions and procedures for granting community grants, thus providing legal certainty, in particular for the states and regions planning projects in this field.
in writing. - in principle, close cooperation between the various authorities in the fight against crime is also desirable. but the data protection is not regulated at all in the planned unrestricted access of all authorities, and the announced data protection officer is not even clear what audit rights he has at all. the swift agreement also has massive data protection concerns. the european parliament must be given the opportunity to put an end to this data protection fiasco in the interests of the citizens. that is why i voted for the report.
in writing. - i am voting against the adoption of the europol package. i voted for the rejection of the whole package because i find it scandalous that the commission and the council are trying to whip the package through before it comes into force in lisbon.
in writing. − next year, a maximum of eur 200 million in macrofinancial assistance will be made available to serbia in the form of a loan. the aim of this money is to support serbia's economic stabilisation, to support its balance of payments and to cushion the effects of the global economic and financial crisis in serbia. i see the macrofinancial assistance to serbia, which supports serbia's programme to stabilise the economy in the current crisis, as an important tool for promoting the stabilisation of the entire balkan region. serbia and its economy play a central role in regional integration, and serbia's participation in european integration is also of great importance. for these reasons i voted in favour of the ransdorf report and therefore in favour of granting macrofinancial assistance to serbia.
in writing. - in recent years, rail freight and long-distance transport in particular have undergone some improvements. the passenger must not be left behind. compensation schemes for delays in international rail transport are not enough. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services in the community. nor must the current privatisation frenzy lead to security flaws and massive delays in the style of england. it is not only for environmental reasons that it is important to remove obstacles and technical difficulties in cross-border rail transport. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
president of the commission. − regarding the ignalina question, as you know this is a matter concerning the treaty of accession of lithuania. we have to respect that treaty of accession, which was signed by all the member states, including lithuania. what we are doing now is looking at not only the economic aspects, but also the safety aspects. i believe all this is taken into consideration in our decision and that we can work with the lithuanian authorities to assure the safety of the nuclear situation there. by the way, at my recent meeting with president medvedev, i once again made the point about the supply of energy from russia to lithuania. i asked him why they cannot be more cooperative regarding the issue of the druzhba pipeline. so we are working actively with our lithuanian friends, and also with other partners important to the security of energy supplies to lithuania.
mr president of the commission! the question of the survival of opel plants is one which has been of great interest to the european public and was also of great importance in the german election campaign. the sale to the consortium led by magna was known long before the election, but the european commission only expressed concerns on 16 october. why did they wait until after the elections? this has an important effect on the outcome of the elections in germany. how can you refute the suspicion that there were political considerations involved, especially since your close relationship with the german chancellor is known? are you prepared to make public your conversations and written contacts on the opel question which took place before the german federal elections on 27 september?
president of the commission. − taking your last question first, of course i am happy to give you all my correspondence with chancellor merkel. there is no problem about that. having said this, we organised two meetings before the german elections with all the countries involved with general motors/opel, and yesterday we organised the third one. it was the third ministerial meeting on opel organised by the commission, and the first since general motors decided not to sell opel. other than being a facilitator, mainly by ensuring that all stakeholders have the same information, the commission will continue to ensure that internal market and state aid rules will be respected. this is very important to avoid a ruinous race to subsidies between member states which will in the end benefit no one. but the ball now is clearly in gm’s court. indeed only after the gm business plan is known, and our member states might be willing to provide state aid, can the commission assess whether competition rules are being respected. we cannot act on suppositions. only in the face of business plans can we say whether they are or are not compatible with our community rules.
i thank you very much and i'm happy to accept your offer. of course, there were also the contacts, we will find a solution. in the second part you have now tackled a very central question: there is not only a wage-dumping race, but also a subsidy race. it was a very clever move to convene this summit yesterday. what are your conclusions from what you've experienced? how can we deal with the emerging danger of a subsidy race, as we have seen repeatedly between different eu member states at the expense of the european taxpayer, and of course also intervene in the economic process of this dynamic?
the commission is proceeding with the accession negotiations with turkey in the most uncritical manner. the situation of the member states and their inhabitants is hardly taken into account. now, in the person of president van rompuy, a clear opponent of accession has been elected, and i quote him as follows: 'turkey is not part of europe and will never be part of europe.' the universal values which prevail in europe, which are also the fundamental values of christianity, would lose their force with the accession of a large islamic country such as turkey. i would therefore ask the commission what it thinks of this clear statement. and if citizens' concerns are not taken seriously, are you at least taking the president seriously?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fight against terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration is certainly an important european concern. however, it must be said that the stockholm programme unfortunately continues to follow the path of continuous reduction and interference with human, civil and civil liberties that has been established since 11 september 2001. privacy concerns are simply being swept off the table in the fight against alleged terrorism. the eu has repeatedly put the spotlight on ordinary citizens, whose data can be recorded, collected and possibly misused, even without being suspected of any crime. officially, it's used to fight organized crime. this is all very well and good, but there are already approaches and tendencies to restrict, prohibit and, who knows, perhaps punish any expression of opinion which does not conform to the consensus of so-called political correctness. george orwell sends his regards, and we should prevent that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the stockholm programme certainly contains a number of sensible approaches, and it is only to be welcomed if the fight against child pornography and terrorist networks on the internet is advanced. i also support measures against illegal immigrants and organised crime. the full access of security authorities to the eu fingerprint database is justified in this respect. the control must not go so far as to make the eu a surveillance state and to pass on data to the usa. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the data collected are not misused. finally, the fundamental right of every eu citizen to privacy is at stake, and in this sense it is important to remember that freedom is freedom from the state, not freedom by the state. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the asylum system is not affected by the current situation. a right thing, i'm sure. in any case, we must be quite clear: without harmonizing economic conditions in the countries, this will not be possible, because of course you go where there is the best social security, the highest incomes, the cleanest roads and the safest cities. one thing is clear: harmonization yes, but europe must not become a self-serving country with an asylum policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the esdp is certainly not a fleet at the moment, but it is always a warship in international politics. every year, when it comes to relieving this warship of the council's budget, it suddenly sinks into the bermuda triangle, and the european parliament acts freely according to the motto: whatever is not on our radar screen does not exist. last spring, extra-budgetary accounts suddenly appeared and the council was not given a discharge. four reasons were given, among others. firstly, the council has not accepted any official and formal meeting with the european parliament. secondly, the council did not send any substantial written replies. thirdly, the council has not sent us the report on the activities and the full list of budgetary transfers. the council's budget is not a budget for the european union, but for the european community. and now suddenly, tomorrow, a few months later, they want to give the council a discharge. but none of these four justifications has been really explained and fulfilled. the council representatives continue to refuse any formal meeting with the eu parliament. the report on the activities has not yet been submitted, nor have the extra-budgetary accounts been deleted or closed as requested. mr president, i would like to ask you: in your first report you put 20 requests and questions to the council. but where are the precise answers to this? can you tell me that? no, you can't. and instead of putting more pressure on the council, what do we do? we are here as petitioners, and these demands are formulated as requests in the new report. and anyone who now agrees to this discharge from the council will be supporting this very situation as the european parliament's petitioner.
my question relates to the eurostars concept, which we have implemented at eureka, which allows for fast and efficient allocation, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. do you think this program is scalable? and how do you see the challenge for the eighth framework programme for research, where it is discussed that we should in future provide 50 billion euros for energy efficiency research, especially in the area of smes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. research and development is a key driver of innovation and disease control, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector, which in turn benefits eu citizens. what action will the commission take in future against pharmaceutical companies which attempt to curb parallel trade in the pharmaceutical sector? will it classify such measures as restrictive of competition?
in the first half of this year, heating oil prices for gas suppliers have fallen by up to 40%. this current trend has only a marginal positive effect on consumers, which would be important especially in the cold season. what measures will the commission take to ensure that consumers are also affected by positive price developments?
i would like to know how you intend to label local products in the future and to market them fresh and of high quality.
whenever tourism is discussed at european level - and i know that there will be no legal possibilities for it in the future - we are faced with a major problem, which affects tourism, transport and environmental protection, namely the european holiday periods, which are not uniform, are not integrated and are not adapted. i would now like to ask you a question - drawing on your long and rich experience as commissioner - whether you see any possibility of coordinating holiday periods in europe in the future - perhaps not legally at first, but somehow starting the attempt to coordinate them in such a way that this chaos we have at present with holiday periods starting everywhere at the same time, always on saturdays, will stop, that we can become more flexible here and that the whole thing could be coordinated somewhat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. free trade can be good if free trade is not limited to free trade. there is much more to such agreements, and there must be more. it is not just about establishing a free trade area, but also about sustainable effects. it has to be about creating development. it has to be about creating security. it must be about creating prosperity for all. that is much more important than making sure that pure liberalization happens, that markets are opened and that in the end a few may benefit. if we want to make trade more free, then the aim of all these efforts - both in our country and in our neighbours to the south - must be to combat unemployment. it must be about creating more opportunities, especially for women, for young people, for the rural population. if that's our goal, then we're on the right track. if it is a question of liberalizing, opening up, making profits possible for a few, then we are on the wrong track.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think i can do it in less than a minute. i also have a question for the commissioner: we all agree that free trade agreements and trade agreements should not be limited to trade but should also have other objectives which in the end help us all. how does this process lead to more democracy, more human rights, more equitable distribution of wealth, both for ourselves and our partners? can you see any of it now, or is it gonna take a while? if so, how long will it take?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's not really surprising. we can say that wherever there is liberalization and privatization, accidents and incidents increase. it's very clear: where there is a need to make high profits, there are low paid employees, there is less skill because skill costs, there are less controls because controls cost, and there is in the end - we've seen this everywhere - when everything is broken, incredible costs for the public to repair what has been broken by liberalization and privatization. we've been going the wrong way here. mr bach thinks that it is enough to check this carefully, to introduce better security mechanisms. it was the wrong way to go, and we should get back to a way that offers quality, safety and efficiency. this is certainly not further liberalisation. it's the other way around.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not for all the differences we have, it is a good sign that we have a president of hungarian origin, of whom we are sure that he will not act discriminatory, but that it is simply a matter of course in this europe that, regardless of language and origin, is trying to respect the law. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the language law is not optimal, as has been pointed out. but it doesn't violate the fundamental rights, that too must be stated. the commission has therefore decided to make a number of proposals to the council to improve the legal framework for the application of the directive. it is very important that this debate today sends a signal that we are making improvements, not because we want to play one ethnic group against the other, but because we want to improve the relations between slovakia and hungary within slovakia, but of course also between the two countries. it must be in our interest. and especially with the elections coming up, i can only appeal that moderation, reason and dialogue lead to a good outcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. my mother, who was born in miskolc, and i, who was born a few kilometres from bratislava, feel and feel this. but the key is not to build up and fuel conflicts which are often essentially between political forces and not between citizens who get along well. and just as there is a hungarian minority in slovakia, so there is a slovak minority in some hungarian-majority communities within slovakia. so we have to connect the dots. the second signal from this debate is also crucial. we have a number of problems together. the slovak republic and hungary share a common problem, for example the roma problem. and wouldn't it be much more sensible to focus on solving these existing problems together in a dialogue, in an effort to give all minorities in this region a better chance? because we are all minorities, after all. the aim must be to make a clear commitment to linguistic diversity - as the commissioner has said - in order to promote multilingualism, because languages are an asset. knowing more languages is an advantage, and if everyone understands and accepts this, then we will look to a better future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after this excitement, perhaps a few more objective tones: energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries were not even willing to implement the kyoto protocol. so i think it is doubtful whether anything will change now with the copenhagen conference. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and it certainly cannot lead to the promotion of nuclear power stations as a kyoto-friendly alternative. the second urgent crisis issue, the race for subsidies around the failing car manufacturer opel, is no less explosive. forecasts such as declining orders were probably not taken seriously enough, and the eu itself may have contributed to the decline of the once-thriving industry with a flood of regulations. we must learn from this to create a predictable framework for all sectors in the future, and until we have mature concepts, it is irresponsible to pour european tax billions into it. we must at least ensure that it does not flow to america and that rules for repayment are established. the european council will be held in brussels on 27 and 28 june, and the european council will be held in brussels on 27 and 28 june. because with the stockholm programme, people are not given more rights, but fewer, because they have no control over the use of the data. there is no question of ending the surveillance of passengers, the issue of data protection is still unresolved, and if we are to introduce a european asylum system, then i think it should be based on the strictest standards, such as those of denmark.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a clear focus for the future for me, for all of us and for the european union as a whole, and that is the labour market. the creation of new jobs and the safeguarding of existing ones must once again receive much, much more attention. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative, and i hope that the commission will take it up with the council. we should be aware that a low unemployment rate has a positive impact on many other areas. let's put the lever in the right place. i also do not understand some of the speakers here who complain that some european politicians are not world famous even before they are elected. why should they be? let us be so confident as europeans to say who we want, who we think is suitable, and then to vote for these people and not to be guided by whether some of them are known or unknown to anyone else or whether they are in the face of our partners worldwide or not. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to congratulate you, mrs malmström, on your move from parliament to the government and from the government to the european commission. all the best! we have the last meeting in nice and we are talking about the first meeting in lisbon. this quantum leap, this change, this new chapter must be felt at the first summit. europe has changed. the institutional debate is over, and i hope the staff debate is over too. we are moving back to policy-making within a new framework. citizens' rights and parliaments will be strengthened, the capacity of the european union and the institutions to act will be strengthened, and we - all three institutions - will be given rights that will make it easier to represent the continent in the world. paper is patient. it will depend on all these meetings in the coming weeks whether we can convey to the people that we also have the political will to act, to formulate objectives and to make citizens participants in the project. i expect from this summit a new dynamism, a new responsibility, more seriousness in dealing with the issues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the lisbon summit calls for europeanization and policy-making! so i expect that we know what we're going to do with the social market economy model. how do we deal with the financial and economic crisis? this is not about defending existing rights, but about finding global solutions. i'm also expecting a cash crunch. we need to know how much money we have for our policies. this cash crunch must be brought to the commission from this summit. we must talk about these issues seriously, truthfully and openly and set new goals. all the best!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agree with most of the speakers who have spoken before me that with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon we are entering a new historic phase of european integration. but the fact is that people, citizens across europe, are not just always in a cheerful mood when they think about it. many people also fear that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty could strengthen centralism in europe. many fear that the small eu member states - like my home country austria - will have less weight because the big ones could determine everything through the new voting arrangements. the people also feel that the weakest and lowest common denominator has been chosen in the choice of the two top positions of the union. that is not to say that mr van rompuy and mrs ashton are not personally qualified. but it was a process where people saw that there was no democratic choice. so if we want to lead the union into a fruitful future, then we must insist, in this parliament in particular, that democracy is practised, including in the selection of the top positions.
in writing. - the much-vaunted increase in democracy and the right of parliaments to have a say in the treaty of lisbon has not been fully realised. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and has also taken steps to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not misused. the lack of democracy in the eu persists even after the lisbon treaty, and it does little to change this when the european parliament is allowed to choose the president of the commission from a pool of politicians who have failed in elections. the fact that the stockholm programme is being implemented so quickly so that we cannot raise the concerns about data protection shows the real state of play of the vote. the changes to the cmo introduced by the lisbon treaty will in reality bring little more transparency or say-so. that is why i voted no.
in writing. − for too long, the eu has tried to reduce greenhouse gas concentrations on its own. meanwhile, energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries were not even willing to implement the kyoto protocol. it remains to be seen how much the copenhagen conference will change this. in this sense, there is a need for rules on financing and sanctions for non-compliance. to make a difference, environmental policy needs to be re-engineered, not just to shift millions in the allowance trade, but to promote real alternatives such as renewable energy and reduce the eu-subsidised freight transport across europe. the present report does not deal with this problem sufficiently, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. − the improvement and strengthening of multilateral contacts in the mediterranean region, and in particular with the southern and eastern mediterranean countries (semc), is very welcome. the european union's efforts to modernise the economy and thus help the people of these countries should also be supported. but there are serious doubts as to whether this can be achieved with the proposed euro-mediterranean free trade area. a sustainability study carried out by the university of manchester warns of negative social and environmental consequences for the semcs involved. it is feared that this agreement will bring additional markets to the eu countries, but will seriously damage the economies of the semc. the parallel introduction of free movement of workers, as called for in the resolution, would also lead to a huge wave of migration to europe and an outflow of the labour force which is badly needed in the semc. i therefore voted against this resolution in the interests of a positive future for the semc.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the resolution. in particular, in the light of regulation no 261/2004 on the common system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, which has already been adopted, and repealing regulation no 295/91. the right steps have already been taken and it is only a logical development to strengthen and protect passenger rights.
in writing. - i see the need for a discussion on the creation of a european legal framework for the indication of the origin of commercial end products, particularly in the context of consumer information and transparency between trading partners. the use of a uniform label contributes to better and more accurate information for consumers and clarifies the social and environmental standards of the products concerned. in addition, the use of origin labels is an important step towards the coherence of trade rules with third countries. however, a balance must be struck between producers and consumers. the transparency created for consumers must not be developed at the expense of producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the course of further discussions, clear guidelines must be drawn up and defended in the interests of austria. a possible solution would therefore be to create a european designation of origin for commercial end products on a voluntary basis and taking into account existing national and regional quality labels.
in writing. the introduction of the european union's system of origin labelling is to be welcomed. from now on, certain products imported into the eu from third countries will have to be labelled with the country of origin. the purpose of labelling is in particular to enable eu consumers to obtain information without restriction on the country of origin of the goods they buy and thus also to associate the goods with the social, environmental and safety standards of the country concerned. this is also a first step in the fight against the dumping of goods from the far east, often produced by exploiting labour, onto european markets.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the european greens and the free alliance, i have to say that i am very pleased that this joint resolution again says that there is a strong commitment by the european parliament to enlargement, and that the momentum for enlargement, about which we had a discussion in the committee on foreign affairs, is to be kept up. that is especially true for south-eastern europe. i hope that the history of armed conflict, of cruelty beyond imagination, in that part of europe will be over once and for all, and i think the european union plays an essential part in that. in that sense, too, i am very pleased that the strong commitment is being kept up in this resolution. there has been progress, as has already been said, on many issues. there has been progress on some of the conflicts we have there and, as rapporteur for kosovo, i am very pleased that the spanish presidency has announced during its presidency it will invite kosovo to take part in the western balkans conference, which i hope will be an opportunity for progress on the status issue. there is one thing about kosovo that the speaker before me has already said. i would have preferred kosovo to have been part of it, but at least we have ensured that there will be a start to visa dialogue with the objective of visa liberalisation. i would like to comment on one amendment that we will propose for tomorrow. it is about one of the minorities that have a very difficult status in many regions of south-eastern europe, and in other parts of europe as well, but especially in kosovo, that is, the roma minority. at the moment some 12 000 roma people, mostly children, are about to be sent back from member states, mostly to kosovo, where we know the conditions are such that they will be unable to have a humane life. so i would ask members of this parliament to vote tomorrow for the amendment that we propose in order, at least for the winter time, to stop sending roma people back to kosovo and to help kosovo make conditions liveable for roma minorities there and here. on the international day for the elimination of violence against women, i am also very pleased that we have achieved amendments in this text which make it clear that discrimination against women and violence against women are also something that both the governments of the region and also the european union have to work against. one last thing: other ethnic minorities and sexual minorities. i find this is an important path towards democratisation.
i have to say, madam president, it is shocking how the eu's democratic deficit is becoming the subject of turkey's accession. the majority of the eu population is clearly against accession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is not honest to pretend that we are not moving towards full membership. turkey is already receiving €2.26 billion as a candidate country for the years 2007 to 2010. the whole thing is being paid for by net contributor countries whose citizens do not want to join. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i therefore support turkey's participation in a eurovision song contest, in the opinion of the highly respected former german president theodor heuss, who clearly defined europe. the european union, he said, was built on three hills: the acropolis of greek humanism, the roman capitol of the european idea of statehood and the hill of calvary of the christian west.
i have to say, madam president, i missed the beginning of this debate because as rapporteur for croatia i had to speak in the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee. i would like to take this opportunity to thank carl bildt and olli rehn for their help in bringing about a solution to the border dispute between slovenia and croatia, at least for the time being. it is a good example of how cooperation between the council, the commission and this parliament can help countries to overcome their problems. i have also contributed to the fact that croatia has now ratified this treaty almost unanimously. but what worries me much more is bosnia and herzegovina. i was recently in banja luka and sarajevo. it is true that dodik has offered some compromises in the course of the talks, some changes to which he can agree. but i want to take up an idea that doris pack has just put forward here: how can we reach out to a wider range of people? because there is a great interest in overcoming this lack of language or these contradictions that exist at the top of some policies. we must somehow manage to address them, because, contrary to what the earl of dartmouth has just said, there are, mr president, many people in this region who are not interested in the european union's money, but who want to enter a union of peace, a union of understanding, and to leave a region of hatred and war. that's what europe is about. you don't want to understand, and you never will. but the people of sarajevo and banja luka know what europe means, and we should help them.
in writing. a differentiated approach is needed to the enlargement strategy: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu. unresolved problems are difficult to deal with after accession and linger for years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for years, the turkey progress reports have been a single list of shortcomings. and in fact, this country is not geographically, nor intellectually, culturally, part of europe. this is evident in the systematic disregard for human rights and freedom of expression, which the kurdish plan cannot prevent, as is evident in the cyprus question. but perhaps the eu also wants to deviate from its human rights standards otherwise the kneeling to the beneš decrees cannot be explained. turkey considers itself to be the supreme power of the turkish people, and therefore the problems of the eu would only be greater with turkish accession, as has been made clear time and again by the actions taken so far. positive aspects such as improving the security of energy supply can also be achieved through a privileged partnership. it's high time we had some honest, clear words.
in writing. i myself am a non-smoker. i am well aware of the health damage caused by the use and secondhand smoke of tobacco. however, as is so often the case, the eu's plans in this area go a step too far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the eu is delusional about tobacco consumption, whereas there are a host of statistically proven dangerous and harmful behaviours in everyday life: fast food diets, uv tanning, alcohol and coffee consumption, driving, no exercise, little sleep, to name a few. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to the use of the euro as to the use of the euro in the euro area. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. a total ban on smoking in workplaces is planned for 2012. the main victims, the catering industry, are not taken into account at all. these companies are faced with a drop in turnover of up to 20%, which would in turn lead to the loss of many jobs. in addition, in recent years, the caterers have been encouraged to set up smoking and non-smoking areas in their establishments, and a total smoking ban in 2012 would make these costly investments obsolete. the draft council recommendation on smoke-free zones is not a sensible measure.
in writing. member states, in particular, have some catching-up to do in the area of non-smoking protection. the protection of vulnerable groups such as children and pregnant women must be a key concern. the european union has no direct and immediate influence on this particular area. health care has been and is a matter for the member states, and the countries must take responsibility here. the eu is therefore focusing on what it can do in non-smoking protection: protecting workers at the workplace. the basic intention of making europe smoke-free, expressed in terms of as many worker protection regulations as possible, does not, however, solve the problem satisfactorily. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat smoking in the community.
i have to say, madam president, long-term food security is one of the key challenges of the cap. in the light of food shortages, it is particularly important to stress the importance of a strong common agricultural policy, which must continue to play a key role in addressing global challenges. this also requires long-term financial provision for the common agricultural policy. the cap is an important element of eu food and security policy and will play a significant role in development policy, including external food security policy, after 2013. the proper functioning of ecosystems, fertile soils, stable water resources and further diversification of the rural economy are of the highest priority. international cooperation and solidarity, as well as balanced trade agreements that promote food security rather than jeopardize it, are an essential element of global food security. and here a strong common agricultural policy can be effective.
i have to say, madam president, our citizens have high expectations of the safety and quality of their food. this applies not only to animal health and food safety, but also to environmental standards, production and animal welfare. the traceability and the accompanying transparency of these foods from the producer to the consumer are only guaranteed in europe. the protection of consumers and the competitiveness of european agricultural products, and thus the competitiveness of agriculture, must be guaranteed and are in the interests of all of us. i therefore consider it essential and one of our responsibilities as members of the european parliament to promote this debate and to ensure the political conditions that go with it.
we need a revolution of democracy! the commission has already done so. good morning in this new world of the lisbon treaty! this is your chance. i have been following your reports for 11 years in this house - and before that as a journalist - and they are very similar. but now you have the opportunity to look ahead. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. look at what else is working - in germany, where you can check the economy and the usefulness of expenditure, in austria - and develop a concept, perhaps in the context of an own-initiative report coming from a parliament, of how to do what you do much better so that you can actually do your job.
president of the court of auditors. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the honourable members who have spoken to us, words which will certainly be much appreciated by all those who work at the court of auditors and which have formed the basis of the report presented today. in the time allotted to me in such an intense and interesting debate, it is a little difficult to answer all the questions which have been put to me directly. i would like to begin by addressing the question of mr de jong, who asked me whether i was discouraged that i was not able, as president of the court, to give a positive sda. my answer would be that, as a listener, i would be happy to give that opinion when the time comes, but it is not for the listeners to be happy with the opinions they give. auditors need to build on a solid foundation, on evidence from the field. if i have to give a very sincere answer, it is that i as an auditor prefer to give an opinion like this year's. i will not tell mr audy whether it is positive or negative, it is a realistic opinion, which highlights the points where progress has been made. it has been found that errors have decreased markedly in some areas, particularly in the agricultural sector, but there are also areas where more care must be taken. so rather than being optimistic or pessimistic, i prefer, as a listener, to be realistic. i think that is the way our message should be understood in terms of future prospects. several members of this house have asked: what can be done to solve these problems? the court has contributed in this report and in previous reports by pointing out that its recommendations for improving the supervisory and control systems in the member states are important and by indicating at commission level that it is also important to simplify the regulatory framework, which means not making things more complicated than they need to be. we cannot go from a stage where we want to do everything, control everything - which leads to excessive controls - to a stage where there is no supervision. otherwise we would not be able to find the right balance to achieve the political objectives. many of you have said that this report does not speak of the efficiency of the use of funds. did the few errors or irregularities detected prevent the projects from being carried out? of course, the court, in its reports, is supposed to give an opinion on the financial statements - and that is a clearly positive opinion - and on the transactions underlying those accounts. and this is about how these transactions are compliant with the rules they're supposed to follow. but the court also gives you, in particular to the competent committees of parliament, to the committee on budgetary control, all our reports on the effectiveness of policies, the proper use of funds in the various fields. i hope you will find important information on what can be done better in the policy framework. but as our report says - and as i stressed in my speech - it is important to seize the opportunity that the reform of the financial regulation, the new framework for the financial perspective and the budgetary reform offer us for the future, to grasp the basic and substantive issues. let me conclude, madam president, by saying that our methodology follows international auditing standards. our samples are those we deem appropriate to draw our conclusions. mr. audy asked this question: are your samples sufficient? the answer is yes. of course, if we had more resources, we could possibly do more work, but our resources are limited and we are expected to manage our resources carefully. finally, a word on the role that the court of auditors and the national audit bodies may play in the future. we are constantly working with the national auditors and national audit bodies in a spirit of trustful cooperation, as provided for in the treaty and reaffirmed in the lisbon treaty , to do our utmost to ensure that, overall, the external audit function can bring added value within the european union. i would like to make a few brief remarks, madam president, without wasting your time. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, thank you for this debate and for the good words addressed to the commission. i have two points relating to the past, from 2008 and recent years. firstly, one important thing was underlined: transparency. i want to remind you that together we have made a big breakthrough. all information about beneficiaries of eu funds is now public and this has also been one of the major changes during this period. the second fact from the past is that we discussed how much money has been lost and how much money should be recovered, amongst other things. i would like to illustrate this with one number, from what is a very complicated title. it is in annex vi to our synthesis report and is the ‘summary of waivers of recoveries’, which actually means an amount of money which is completely and irreversibly lost. in the 2008 synthesis report this was eur 18 380 363.22, which is under 0.01% of the eu budget. this is lost. we have discussed all these billions which have not been properly managed in the structural funds, but something is recovered finally. the process is not perfect and we have to work hard on this and sometimes errors are corrected. it is a long process and we must take it very seriously. now some points for the future. in the very near future we will start discussions on the new financial regulation and the new budget perspectives. very many things are linked to this process. national declarations and the participation of member states need a stronger legal basis. we can clearly go ahead with this simplification, discussed so much and so many times here. as president caldeira has already said, objectives are defined by more than 500 programmes accepted by the commission, parliament and council. every programme has its own legal basis, its own objectives, and everything must be measured including the money which has been spent in accordance with these objectives. that is a key issue. at the last plenary session when we discussed the discharge for 2007, one idea was to reduce the number of programmes and to have bigger projects and bigger programmes which are much easier to survey. this is a key issue and, as one member said was the case with rural development, you cannot measure objectives – especially in external actions, where you have very political objectives – and say that those objectives are being achieved. this is a key issue, but one within the framework of the future discussions on financial regulations. concerning dialogue, which was underlined here as important, i must say that we have tried to do our best to have good dialogue with parliament, with the committee on budgetary control and with the court of auditors. i myself like to debate everything with people with different views, different attitudes and different assessments. that is normal life. what i do not like is that some people deliberately and constantly use incorrect facts. you cannot have a dialogue when the facts are not correct. we can have different assessments, different interpretations and different views, but the facts must be correct. i strongly wish that in our future dialogue this principle will also be respected. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, i am sorry to have to take this opportunity to make a personal remark, for which i would be allowed three minutes under the agenda. i won't be needing these. i have been very constructive in my contribution and i have been very constructive in the debate in pointing out all that could be done on the new basis. in order to arrive at this assessment, i have followed the debate closely this morning, i was there much earlier than the honourable member has claimed, i left later and i am here again. i find it very unfortunate that mrs. gräßle obviously finds it necessary to mount personal attacks at the lowest level. i would like her to be constructive herself, to be less of a false-fairy in the tabloids and instead to offer constructive suggestions on how to get the cow off the ice here, how to actually give the court of auditors the means to do so. it is also a great pity that it is mrs gräßle who makes the work of the non-attached unnecessarily difficult, who discriminates against us, who denies us access to information and the opportunity to work with staff, and who then considers it critical to attack us on the basis of false facts. you should learn democracy, mrs. ugly!
in writing. while there are still significant deficits in some areas, particularly in cohesion policy, the fall in the error rate in the area of agriculture and natural resources to below 2% gives me an optimistic outlook. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the first concerns cooperation between the commission and the member states. the aim is to identify and correct errors and inaccuracies in the various expenditure fields. the second is to improve the eu's payment arrangements with the member states, both in terms of disbursements and repayments of eu funds.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have been overtaken by reality by the activities of google books in our european strategy of slow, targeted action and the many concerns that are expressed in the course of this. we are facing a widespread digitization that google has done to books, including books by european authors who had not given their consent and who now find themselves surprised and irritated by the fact that they are in google books where they don't want to be. i would like to start by saying: it is not just a question of money when it comes to copyright, it is also a question of the sovereignty of the author, who should already have the right to decide whether and how and in what form his (or her) book is digitized and used. this is a central question and a necessity. but this raises the most critical questions of the so-called orphan works, i.e. where authors can no longer be found, and how there could be a good solution. each and every one of us knows the situation when you have lent a favorite book, and you can't get it back, and you can't get it again because it's expired. for such questions, of course, google books could be a very good solution, which also preserves and helps preserve treasures from literature and neighboring areas that otherwise disappear from our culture. but it also has to be designed in such a way that it makes sense. google books can't just walk away from anything on suspicion of being wrong. here, we must try to find the author and protect his rights. the role of the collecting societies comes into play here, and i am also calling for a fair solution. and as mrs niebler has already said, the role of collecting societies must be re-examined in this context. if you refuse to use new technology today, you have the right to do so. but it also has its consequences and may later be absent from the vast pool of knowledge that is being formed. that's the key today. we may need statutory exceptions and can solve the problem relatively well.
in writing. - i strongly oppose the commission's enlargement strategy for turkey: the clear majority of eu citizens are against inclusion, but still have to co-finance billions of payments to the official candidate country turkey. turkey is not a european country, geographically, culturally or in respect of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the enlargement strategy hardly takes account of the concerns of the citizens, but rather represents the geostrategic interests of the usa and the unresolved conflicts on the turkish borders would become problems of the eu with accession. i regret that the whole enlargement strategy, that is to say, both for iceland, the western balkans and turkey, has been dealt with in a way which should make a serious, selective and differentiated debate impossible. the arrogance with which the issue of turkey's accession is being dealt with is reflected in this approach. the unwanted voices of the anti-accessionists, who represent the majority of the population, are largely ignored.
in writing. − long-term food security is one of the cap's key challenges. in the light of food shortages, it is particularly important to stress the importance of a strong common agricultural policy, which must continue to play a key role in addressing global challenges. this also requires a long-term financial endowment of the cap. the cap is an important element of eu food and security policy and after 2013 it will play a significant role in development policy and also in external food security policy. the proper functioning of ecosystems, fertile soils, stable water resources and further diversification of the rural economy are of the highest priority. international cooperation and solidarity, as well as balanced trade agreements that promote food security rather than jeopardise it, are an essential element of global food security - and this is where a strong cap can be effective. net food importers are the countries most affected by rising food prices, and at the same time many of these countries are the least developed in the world - and the eu must act to counter this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of human rights and respect for minority rights has been a constant area of conflict in relations between the european union and the people's republic of china for years and decades. the situation of minorities in particular has become increasingly difficult since the end of the olympic games, and it is therefore necessary to note that tibetans and uighurs have been particularly pressured in recent months. i cannot understand why they do not want paragraph 9 in the resolution because it is precisely because it is, for example, a question of peaceful dialogue rather than of the oppression that is in place. china is a powerful player on the world stage. to be a recognized player on the world stage, china must maintain respect for human rights, and this must not only be in the constitution, but must be implemented in practice. that is what tibetans, uighurs and human rights groups in china are demanding and nothing else. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not you have, as far as we understand, spoken of a resolution in connection with the first motion. we have not voted specifically on whether or not to adopt a resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know whether what i am saying is still relevant to the agenda, but i think it is most appropriate to this point. the treaty of lisbon has also changed the number of members of the european parliament, and for austria this means that two new members will be coming to this house. these members are ready, they are elected and it is important that they come here soon. i would like to ask you what steps have already been taken to ensure that these members can come quickly, whether as observers or as full members, or what you intend to do to ensure that this happens quickly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on 8 december, the esdp mission in atalanta celebrated its first anniversary. according to the swedish presidency, the operation has demonstrated its ability to take effective action against piracy and has led to a significant breakdown in attacks. the latter statement is highly questionable, however. according to a report by the international maritime bureau, the first nine months of 2009 saw more attacks than the whole of 2008. the number of armed attacks also increased by 200% overall. the financial efficiency of this operation is also highly questionable. the total damage caused by piracy in this region is estimated at $200 million. in contrast, the eu and its member states invest 408 million a year. the new esdp mission in somalia is not tackling the root of the problem, it is not tackling it at all. it would be really worthwhile if the eu were to work towards an effective coastguard, the prevention of predatory fishing ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to make two points very briefly. firstly, the open problem of equal rights for men and women is joined by the equally urgent question of equal treatment. it should be a fact that women and men, with the same qualifications, the same quality and the same position, receive the same income. in austria, the world is curiously upside down, because the more qualified women are, the worse they perform compared to their equally qualified colleagues, and topical: the disadvantage of women increases with age, i.e. women over 60 earn about 34% less than their male colleagues. secondly, i would like to point out that children need protection. i would have welcomed it if the un convention on the rights of the child had been enshrined in the austrian constitution. i hope that the discussion in austria will soon be resumed and brought to a positive conclusion.
i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to you for your report, commissioner. this is an important signal to our farmers who have to survive in this tense market situation. in your report you also referred to the fall in demand in the agricultural sector. it is important to stimulate this sector and to promote sales. the commission is called upon more than ever to identify crises early, regardless of the sector of production, and to take swift and effective action to address them. i am convinced that a sensitive area such as food production needs market instruments. the added value of agriculture in the area of maintaining our cultural landscapes, landscape and biodiversity and much more is irreplaceable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the exchange of views on his guidelines, commission president barroso promised that sustainability and the preservation of biodiversity will be the main policy objectives of the european union for the current period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a very strong appeal to you here today to promote and support those measures, and only those measures, which contribute to the conservation of biodiversity and sustainability.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. i remember very well that the debates we are hearing today began in this house ten years ago. i would urge you, commissioner, to take note of what is coming from harlem désir, but also from the greens and some members on the left. do you not realise that the approach with which the european union entered into the negotiations cannot be used as an honest broker to remedy the imbalance, and that, in conjunction with what we are currently experiencing in these hours and days in copenhagen, we really need a new approach? the developing countries are no longer developing countries in many of the things they do today. they're emerging markets, they're developed markets, and they're very confident. if we fail to make a fair start on the european side, we will end up where we do not want to end up, namely in protectionism and, in 1933 and the years that followed, in europe as well.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank the commissioner in particular for having put the european union's ideas very clearly on the table during the negotiations in geneva, because, of course, in the doha round we are trying to give a new framework to the world economy, which is in crisis. i think it is not so easy for 153 countries to work out a unanimous common solution here, but for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular, which are the backbone of the european economy, trade facilitation is of course one of the most important points we must make, if we want to continue to achieve economic growth of 2-3% worldwide in the future, in order to be able to guarantee employment not only in our own europe but also in the many poor countries of the world. it is therefore important that we protect the products we produce, especially in agriculture, by means of designations of origin, so that the added value produced locally can be used accordingly.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european union has a budgetary instrument, the globalisation adjustment fund, which provides financial support to workers affected by the far-reaching global structural changes in world trade patterns. now it is also the people in my own country who are directly helped by the globalisation fund. i have already pointed out on several occasions that the globalisation fund should not be misunderstood as a backup for multinationals, but should directly support the citizens concerned. i therefore support monitoring mechanisms and would like to see regular progress reports from styria. the fund is working precisely where society needs it most, with the people themselves. this is a positive contribution by the european union to its citizens!
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am pleased that we are discussing today how to respond to the global crisis and in particular to unemployment. it is a matter of a very large number of innocent companies which simply have too few orders, which is why they do not generate any sales and which are therefore losing their liquidity and thus their creditworthiness. i am grateful that the focus here has been on small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. i believe that bridging assistance is particularly important to enable them to continue to work and to take advantage of new opportunities in the markets. and we should analyse the results of this funding carefully, where we have applied best practice, where we have actually helped to secure jobs and, above all, where we have succeeded in ensuring the reintegration of the displaced into the labour market as quickly and as efficiently as possible. it is now time to help quickly, and that is why i also support the mobilization as soon as possible, particularly in austria in styria, where a whole region is involved in car manufacturing and where many suppliers are involved, who of course have a special importance for the infrastructure. i think it is good that this 5.7 million euro is being made available. i would ask that in all the cases we are considering positively today, an analysis be made, not only of the fact that the money has actually flowed, but also of the fact that it has led to the re-employment or the re-establishment of businesses, and that in the future active economic activity will make it possible to restore the strength of this region as it has been up to now. i'll thank the commissioner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the application from austria for support from the egf concerns former employees of a total of nine automotive suppliers in styria. if you look at the case, you can immediately see that this is a classic case for the european globalisation adjustment fund, namely reparative medicine. the egf can do exactly what it was set up to do, namely to provide protection for those who are directly affected by the negative effects of globalisation and who now have to compensate for the irresponsibility of financial market jugglers through the sudden loss of jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is to say, the whole region is shaken because now the market - especially the demand for cars - has collapsed. the figure for the decline in car sales is minus 59.4%. in this context, the eur 5.7 million is an excellent investment for the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market. this investment will be used to send the workers to regional employment foundations, the "automotive", or to carry out orientation and qualification measures.
i have to say, madam president, i'd like to use the blue card for a correction. in austria, the support is not granted for one person only.
i have to say, madam president, you see, obviously an austrian issue and styria, one of our heavily affected federal states, is very dear to our hearts, with an above-average proportion of the population in the automobile industry on the one hand, and of course an above-average proportion of these products is also exported. the global decline in demand has led to the 744 redundancies mentioned above, and we are very pleased that 400 of those affected are being supported by the egf. that is very welcome. it is not just about subsidies for simple restructuring, but also about support for individual workers in the form of subsidies for living expenses and training measures. i agree with mrs cornelissen who said that we must have a particularly forward-looking approach to training. the future will require more skilled workers, and retraining in the fields of technology and renewable energy is certainly a valuable step. i am sure that styria will be very keen to do so.
i have to say, madam president, if we assume that most jobs across europe - not just in my home country of austria - are at risk from the effects of globalisation, then we must be particularly careful that younger workers - some of whom are not yet registered as unemployed because they are in training or have just left school - are also at risk. we must take special care - and this concerns austria in the first place - to support those workers who have to enter the labour market first and to give them the opportunity to enter the european labour market with european union subsidies.
i have to say, madam president, we have talked about the egf today, and now we are talking about micro-credit. both instruments are urgently needed to combat the effects of the financial and economic crisis in the eu and to stimulate the european labour market. we need both instruments, because not everyone is called to be an entrepreneur. it is not the aim of our employment policy to turn formerly selfemployed people, those who are selfemployed for purely business reasons, into new selfemployed people, for whom the term 'pseudo-selfemployed' would be much more appropriate. the member states must take appropriate precautions in this respect. but for all those who want to take up the challenge of self-employment, the means must also be made available to enable them to set up or expand these enterprises. but it is - and here too the european parliament and the member states are called upon - to ensure that the normal social security system is maintained. we need new money for new ideas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. whether you live in urban areas or in the countryside, we live in an information and knowledge society. the people, businesses and organisations that best use modern information technologies have the greatest competitive advantage. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's external relations. this is where the second part of the european economic recovery programme starts, and it is thus also a support for the lisbon strategy. energy security present and future is a key issue of european importance. bulgaria has opted for the strategy of immediate decommissioning of the kosloduy nuclear power plant. the cost of shutting down the plant is hundreds of millions of euros. nevertheless, radioactive waste remains a permanent risk factor for the health and safety of future generations. i am interested in the true external costs of using nuclear energy and how to calculate them. it is high time that we not only continue to explore and promote alternative renewable energy technologies, but also to implement them more intensively. the joint declaration on building policy stresses the importance of a medium to long-term building policy. personally, i think there are three things that are important to me here. first, energy-efficient buildings can reduce co2 emissions by up to a third. secondly, the use of materials harmful to health, in particular asbestos, must be avoided. thirdly, i am, as always, in favour of a clear and controllable policy, including in the field of building design.
in writing. in times of economic crisis, when citizens are suffering from a wave of redundancies and cuts in social benefits, the european union must also save. next year the eu wants to spend around 123 billion euros, seven billion more than last year. of course, difficult economic times require measures to stimulate the economy, but whether instruments such as the european recovery programme can achieve this is doubtful. in the past, well-publicized eu programmes have remained paper tigers, and various eu subsidies have proved to be an invitation to abuse of any kind. for years, the eu court of auditors has found blatant shortcomings in agricultural and structural funding in its annual reports. so for years, the taxpayers' hard-earned money has been going down some dark channels. the complexity of the rules, which even the brussels eurocrats often lose sight of, contributes to the flawed nature of the system. and the eu is not even in a position to recover funds wrongly paid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. instead, the systemic flaws should be eliminated by extensive renationalization, for example in the field of agriculture. the member states could then decide for themselves which areas they wanted to promote. and as far as measures to stimulate the economy are concerned, they should be carried out in a coordinated manner by the member states.
in writing. - i support the report on the creation of a new microfinance facility to help people whose jobs are at risk to set up or expand micro-enterprises. micro enterprises are defined as companies with fewer than 10 employees and a turnover of less than eur 2 million. the financing option is to be offered for an initial period of four years, starting on 1 january 2010. this will enable people who lose their jobs as a result of the crisis or whose companies are struggling to continue to be financed to continue their education, to keep their jobs and, in some cases, to create new ones. this will continue to stimulate the economy and help to bring the crisis to a halt.
in writing. the financial and economic crisis, caused primarily by anglo-american speculators, is now also leading to rising unemployment in europe as a result of the economic downturn. young people, who have been at high risk of unemployment in the past, are particularly affected by the new situation. the aim is to give them a chance to start or re-enter their careers and to pave the way for some of them to become entrepreneurs. the new european microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion progress will hopefully provide substantial support in this respect. this new instrument can also be used to deal with the credit crunch which still exists. in addition to interest subsidies, micro-entrepreneurs will also receive support in the form of mentoring, training, coaching and skills development. i support the committee's initiative to increase the appropriations for the microfinance instrument by 50% to 150 million, compared with the commission's proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for all these reasons, i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the overall resolution on the introduction of the microfinance facility, as i consider its rapid adoption to be a top priority. this gives disadvantaged groups the opportunity to obtain credit and to help themselves. but now my appeal to the council: no money from progress. here, the money is to be kept in full. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president of the commission, 2009 is ending in a very difficult situation, with high unemployment, economic and budgetary problems. at the same time, five years of the barroso commission are coming to an end. what conclusions do you draw from the first five years for the second five years, if the commission is confirmed, particularly as regards these economic and social questions? what message do you want to convey to our citizens, but also to your commissioners, about what should be different in this new period? we should work together to set new accents, new priorities, especially with economic and social policy objectives, and to avoid what we have now in this situation. so what are the conclusions you draw from the first five years, and what do you want to do differently, better, more clearly in the next five years to meet the wishes of the citizens?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. if we come to the conclusion in the hearings in this parliament that the division of portfolios does not fully meet these objectives and then make proposals to change these portfolios, are you prepared in principle to take up these objections and make an adjustment? would you reject this on principle, or are you prepared to accept it on principle?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, madam president of the council, madam vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy! first of all, i would like to thank the swedish presidency very much for this initiative. that was a good initiative, and i congratulate you on it! i would like to thank mrs ashton for sitting with the commission for her first appearance here, even though she was speaking primarily as the union's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. it is a matter of common foreign and security policy. in this respect, it may not matter where you sit, but it is important that you are here and that you represent a common foreign policy. secondly, the declaration adopted by the council is a good declaration and it is not anti-israel in any way. on the contrary, it is in the interest of israel, of israel's security and stability. that is absolutely important to stress. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would ask you, madam high representative, to take this seriously. we were in the united states a few days ago and talked to our congressional colleagues. president obama has little choice when he hears what is being said in congress about one-sidedness, about the lack of understanding of the situation of the palestinians. they have a great understanding of the situation in israel. we too oppose all forms of terrorism and we too want the captured soldier to be able to return to his family. but we also have concern and understanding for the plight of the palestinians for everything that is mentioned in this statement, particularly as regards the 1967 borders, the difficult situation in jerusalem and settlement activities. it is completely incomprehensible - but a continuation of the policy of recent years - that a very ambivalent attitude is being adopted on the question of settlement development. once it's stopped, it goes into the national priority program. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when you see the palestinians being deprived of their land every day, it is totally unacceptable! what happened to a parliamentary delegation is also totally unacceptable. mr de rossa will be commenting on this. we in this parliament must say, together with the council and the commission: it is the right of members of parliament to go to gaza and see the situation there. what is israel hiding that it's preventing parliamentarians from coming to gaza? we cannot accept that and i hope that we will stand together against it. transparency and openness are among other things the prerequisites for a meaningful middle east policy. we should support that!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. article 75 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides for the creation of restrictive measures to combat terrorism and thus also for interference with the property rights of citizens, such as the freezing of accounts. while these provisions deal with police cooperation in criminal matters, article 215 refers to the common foreign and security policy. however, the council retains sole competence in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in both cases, however, there is a question of any interference with the individual rights of citizens or legal persons, which is why it is essential for the council and the commission to clarify the relationship between these two provisions and why parliament should not be involved in article 215 in particular.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of transparency and citizens' access to documents within the european union will undoubtedly be important and relevant, as people across europe are still very much disillusioned with european integration policy. we in austria are still faced with a large number of people who are either disillusioned or sceptical of the european union, because they feel that they have no transparency and no access to politics. the events of the introduction of the treaty of lisbon, and now the election of the president of the council and the high commissioner, have given the public the feeling that they cannot see, that they have no transparency and that they have no idea why and how these things are done. i believe that if the treaty of lisbon is to be a success for the citizens, it will be important to give people the feeling that they can see who, why, and how decisions are being made in the union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to focus on two things. the first is the relationship between economic aid and support on the one hand and democratic development on the other, and the second is some of the fundamental issues raised in the tagliavini report. commissioner, you have rightly said that georgia needs financial and economic support and that the european union should provide it. they have rightly set three conditions for this, namely the question of democratic reform, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. i am particularly concerned about one question: unfortunately, in the past, georgia and the government have spent a lot of money on arms purchases, including in the run-up to last year's conflict. how will you ensure that this does not happen with european funds? secondly, a human rights case which has also been raised by the council of europe commissioner hammerberg : two teenagers are still in detention in south ossetia, despite the fact that hammerberg had already been promised that they would be released. have you taken any initiative here? do you see any chance of them being released anytime soon? the report by mr tagliavini has for the first time really addressed with such clarity how the conflict arose, with the building up of xenophobia, of hate in language. what will the commission and the council do in this area to reduce it and make it clear that this is the prelude to armed conflict and that it must be stopped before it even begins?
the commission has already done so. the eu is pursuing a foreign policy line in this region which, in my view, is not really coherent. the caucasus is known to be a transit region for energy and russia, which is an important strategic partner, is of great importance to us. it is precisely in this sensitive starting point that the eu, possibly influenced by the pro-us attitude of some member states, has been misled by president saakashvili in the georgia crisis. the political shortsightedness in the georgian crisis has not only widened the internal divide in the union but has also put a heavy strain on relations with russia. we'll get the bill when the gas fight starts. we shall see whether the new eu leaderships will prove themselves in this respect. so if brussels really wants to uphold human rights, it should also intervene in georgia with regard to possible electoral manipulation, for example, slave-like working conditions and the re-regulation of the right to demonstrate, which is known to be in breach of the charter of human rights. the european union is not prepared to accept the newly elected president of the council of ministers, who is the only one who has been elected by the people of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are currently in a financial and economic crisis, and i believe that liquidity is the most important thing in a crisis situation, not only for banks and companies, but especially for workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, creditworthiness is based on what you earn, whether as an employee or as a business or as a bank. if you don't earn anything, you can't have credit and you can't have liquidity, and that's where the negative spiral starts. it is therefore very important that we ensure that in future there is no extra tax on transactions in goods, but that we consider how a so-called financial transaction tax could be levied on purely financial transactions without a background of service or warning transactions, which could serve to seek a refinancing of the banks on the one hand, but also a refinancing of the public budgets, and thus of course form the basis for the creation of new employment. in fact, it is not acceptable that there is unemployment. unemployment is also the main factor behind the financial and economic crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to the creation of the hygiene regulations, because the present commission communication on the experience gained in applying the hygiene regulations gives a generally positive picture. this is not to be underestimated, because as has already been said, these new regulations are a paradigm shift in food hygiene policy. this innovative nature was also the reason why a first experience report was to be drawn up three years after the entry into force. member states and food businesses were generally satisfied and reported good progress in implementation. the member states and private interest groups do not consider that there are any major difficulties for either the companies or the public authorities. they are unanimous in their view that these rules certainly need some adjustments, but that no fundamental revision is necessary. the challenge of ensuring the highest possible quality and safety of products for consumers and of responding flexibly to the needs of businesses, particularly the smallest ones, is already being met by the existing rules. the principle that 'if you stop getting better, you have stopped being good' is of course followed in the reporting of the problems reported, as mr schnellhardt has already mentioned, to investigate their causes and, if necessary, to develop proposals for solutions. it is also necessary to continue to monitor the implementation of the hygiene package closely, as it was too early for some member states to carry out a balanced and detailed assessment. it is only after a comprehensive assessment has been carried out that a decision should be taken as to whether and, if so, what changes should be made to the food hygiene regulations.
i have to say, madam president, we austrians have been spared many years of terrorist attacks, thank god. but vienna has had to learn that too. i would like to add my voice to that of mr jáuregui atondo. on the one hand, we certainly need this charter for victims and support for victims of terrorism. but what we must do at the same time - and in parallel - is to drain the biotope from which this violence arises, which leads to terrorism. i am starting with education and enlightenment, and this means that the house is also documenting a very clear rejection of the use of language. we are here preaching tolerance in many areas. there is one area where we cannot tolerate violence, and that is where it occurs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the swedish presidency of the council is thus coming to an end - without major setbacks, but also without outstanding successes in my view. the ambitious goal of getting the economic crisis under control was not achieved. we have pumped billions and billions into a system that benefits a few, while the public is left to bear the risks and costs. we cannot have european taxpayers' hard-earned money going into the bowl of bank managers' bonuses. i think that if we are going to have a climate summit, then there should be more cost-effectiveness and honesty in the discussion about nuclear reactors. if we are to find solutions to climate change, we must also put an end to emissions fraud. in the swift negotiations, i think the swedish presidency has let the united states dictate something to it by giving out the bank details. the citizens are becoming more and more manipulable and more and more glazed by this and the stockholm programme. with sweden, turkey will also lose a supporter of accession. i think it is time to stop negotiating on this and offer a privileged partnership.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need a revolution of democracy. as an admirer of so many swedish traditions, i was all the more disappointed by the record of their activities. unfortunately, it was not a folksheim presidency, but a presidency of councillors and also a presidency of major investors à la wallström, it was not malmström. i know you, madam commissioner, from the very time you were a member of the european parliament. now you were something else. and i very much hope that when you come back, you will continue where you have been before, which is inspired by parliamentarism. why did you leave swift so late? why are we now dealing with a directory at eu level, as it were, and this in the light of the swedish objectives of transparency? please use your future to go back to where you were before.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we often pretend in the debates on the council presidencies that the council presidency is the european union. the presidency of the council is not the eu, but it is an important manager of a european institution. so i ask for more fairness and serenity. the presidency of the council has done a good job in the last six months. it has helped to open a new chapter in the history of the european union's success. we do not want a europe of governments. we are working towards a people's europe, towards closer cooperation between the institutions and the parts of the european union. each of us is a part of it. the institutional debate has been concluded, the staff questions have been answered and the council has taken a position on some important points so that we can continue to work. let us look to the future. it has been mentioned that we have a major problem: the lisbon treaty has not yet entered into the council's working methodology. the council has more say in the european parliament and its committees than the european parliament has in its working parties and council meetings. we are also demanding equal treatment for both institutions, because we are equal legislators. it was a mistake, yes, it is possible to argue about the content of the swift vote, although the co-decision of parliament the day after was different. the decision on financial supervision has not yet been taken. we must improve, we need executive power, we need more european supervision where crossborder institutions are concerned, and we must achieve greater coordination between the member states, the commission and the ecb within the basle committee, otherwise a parallel structure will be created.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we voted on amendment no 8, the small screen was still showing , at least on our side, and 7d on the left. i just want you to make sure that the votes are properly recorded.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the allocation of eur 15.9 million in aid to austria, sweden and the netherlands. in total, 744 workers in the automotive supply industry in styria alone had to be laid off as a result of the world economic crisis. the eu has now granted austria's legitimate request for assistance from the eu globalisation adjustment fund in the amount of eur 5 705 365. this is quite justified, since austria is particularly affected by the decline in exports. for example, exports of road vehicles and passenger cars decreased by 51.3% and 59.4% respectively. the crisis is felt throughout the automotive industry, due to the close interconnection between companies in the automotive sector and the low diversification of many suppliers.
in writing. − once again, the impact of the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) must be mitigated. this time, styria is also badly affected. a total of 744 people have been made redundant in nine different companies in recent months, which is why the land of styria has asked the eu for support. as with previous applications, everything was examined very carefully and i am pleased that the steier fulfils all the conditions. the negative effects of globalisation are once again becoming more and more apparent, particularly in the context of the current financial and economic crisis. it is all the more incomprehensible in this context that parliament has today adopted a resolution calling for more liberalization and the removal of trade barriers and thus also for more globalisation. until the eu has a change of heart, we can only reduce the damage caused by globalisation in the countries concerned. i therefore voted without reservation to release the funds from the fund.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus. there is no doubt that the removal of trade barriers and the increase in trade in some areas will lead to greater prosperity and wealth. but it has been shown that free trade makes sense, especially between similarly developed countries. if the trading partners are too different in their development, this often has negative effects on both sides. the full opening of developing countries' markets to exports from developed countries has sometimes resulted in the destruction of local economic structures, the further impoverishment of the population and, consequently, greater migratory pressure on the western countries. conversely, europe was flooded with cheap goods from the far east, many of which were produced by exploiting workers. domestic production was relocated or closed, leading to unemployment in europe. in this respect, certain trade barriers, for example to preserve food sovereignty in europe, make perfect sense. it should be borne in mind that the liberalisation of services in financial markets has contributed massively to the current financial and economic crisis. the resolution nevertheless calls for further liberalization and the upgrading of the wto as part of a new world order policy, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the doha development agenda today because i am against any kind of liberalisation of public services. i am thinking in particular of the liberalization of water supply, health services and energy. the cohesion of society requires that all citizens have access to public services. this must be done in a high quality and universal manner and above all at an affordable level. the national authorities should have a wide margin of discretion and a wide scope for design.
in writing. - in the name of fighting terrorism, more and more freedoms have been curtailed in recent years. the swift agreement and the stockholm programme are making the 'glass man' more and more a reality. of course, in times of modern technology, globalisation and the eu without borders, it is important that the authorities work together and also upgrade accordingly. the state must not, however, stoop to the level of terrorists. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world of terrorism. the control of legality is an important counterweight to the granting of minimum rights to the accused in accordance with the requirements of a modern democracy. the report is not clear enough on the procedure and does not deal enough with past failures and data protection issues, so i have abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps you will allow me, as a member of the iranian delegation, to make a brief comment. there was a debate with the iranian ambassador in brussels at the european parliament in brussels some time ago. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road. i would like to say that perhaps this problem, along with corruption, will be adequately addressed in the action plan.
mr president, the council president, the honourable mrs benita ferrero-waldner, has just spoken. i am particularly pleased that benita ferrero-waldner, as our commissioner, has always stood up for democracy and the market economy and has set new standards here in belarus. i would like to thank her very much for her work as foreign affairs commissioner and wish her well for the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union's policy towards belarus is certainly an example of a sound neighbourhood policy. we should thank the outgoing commissioner ferrero-waldner for her successful work here. the european union should certainly support belarus in the reform process and also in its democratization. but the european union, or the members of the european union, should not be so arrogant as to think that their own democratic standards must be an example to the rest of the world. the european union has a duty to respect the historical and geopolitical interests of the kremlin. the european union has a duty to help the people of belarus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the displacement of millions of people, thousands of rapes and hundreds of murders, this must not be the sad record of the world's largest un peacekeeping operation. ten years ago, the congo operation was decided, and not much was accomplished. militias continue to plunder the resource-rich region, terrorise the residents, and commit crimes against humanity. the embargoes have so far been ineffective. rebels simply switch fronts and carry out their crimes in the safe uniforms of congolese soldiers. two war criminals were recently brought before the war crimes tribunal in the hague, development projects and elections were held. at least partially. the fdlr also succeeded in striking a small blow at the worldwide network of democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda. but the brutal civil war could not be stopped. it's just the fronts are shifting all the time. the situation will be particularly worrying if the allegations against the un mission are proved to be true. the blue helmets must not stand by while atrocities are being committed, much less must logistical support for the army be accompanied by support for human rights violations. the congo mission must not become a kind of vietnam for europe. in principle, we need a coordinated european security policy and peace operations, but perhaps primarily in the context of europe and not in distant africa, where the ethnic fronts are unclear. i believe that the eu must concentrate its peace operations on the crisis regions on its doorstep, such as the balkans or the caucasus. the eu's participation in the african un mandate should therefore be terminated.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in november 2009, the exchange of ambassadors between rwanda and the democratic republic of congo a small glimmer of light for the violated country and its violated people! the leader of the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda was also arrested. both are signs of improvement in the situation in eastern congo. my question to the commission is: what measures are being taken to bring the congo and rwanda closer together? now, on the un mandate, there's a lot of talk in here about taking all the action. let's be honest: if there is a un mandate, it is clearly to protect the oppressed, the tortured, the abused, the mistreated, especially the women and children in this country. one thing must be clear: if a un mandate is announced and we austrians are a bit restrictive in this area, then we must be consistent and, if necessary, also protect the oppressed with weapons in hand.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in kosovo. on the one hand, there is an albanian minority in serbia, on the other, there is a serbian minority in kosovo. my question is: in view of the visa facilitation for serbia, how does the eu ensure that there will be no grey areas and no grievances? does this approach of giving relief to a population group in kosovo contradict the controversial recognition of kosovo as a sovereign state?
the so-called microfinance instrument planned by the eu is not being re-financed, but the funds are to come from the progress programme. in this context, how can it be avoided that the new instrument will be used to the detriment of earlier employment and social programmes?
my question is: does it not make sense to prevent unemployment in the first place? do you see any public duties that could be assigned to the unemployed? and, above all, how can we strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises so that new ones can be created? are there opportunities to apply methods and best practices across borders to create more and new enterprises?
to be sure, it makes sense to cooperate internationally if - and i say this clearly - this cooperation does not have to be bought with eu aid. with which other countries are negotiations currently under way or planned, and have financial incentives been offered to the turkish state to participate in this frontex operation?
president-in-office of the council. − i can only reiterate the principles and the values that the european union stands for and that the council, of course, defends. also, the particular events that mr czarnecki refers to are being examined by the relevant authorities of the council of europe and, should there be any other form of discrimination, it is the commission’s task to make sure that the member states comply with the treaties and with the laws of the european union.
acting president of the council. - thank you for asking. the council is particularly aware of the human rights situation in vietnam and we are closely following developments in the country. twice a year the council and the commission assess the situation in the context of the human rights dialogue we have with the vietnamese authorities. the latest dialogue meeting was held in hanoi last week, on 11 december. many pressing issues were discussed, such as freedom of speech, reform of the criminal code, including the death penalty, and freedom of religion and belief, including the situation of the plum village supporters. an eu list of persons and prisoners of particular concern was submitted to the vietnamese government. in addition to the human rights dialogue, the eu regularly raises particularly worrying issues with the vietnamese government. on 10 november the council and the commission held a long discussion with the members of the plum village community. the european parliament resolution on the subject was published on 26 november. on the same day, the commission held a high-level meeting with the authorities in hanoi, in the framework of the joint committee for the negotiation of a partnership and cooperation agreement, which we hope to conclude next year. our main message at the meeting was to express our concern about the human rights situation in vietnam. we mentioned the expropriation of church property, we mentioned the attacks on human rights defenders and bloggers which have been previously addressed by colleagues here in the european parliament and we also mentioned the situation of the supporters of plum village. we called on our counterparts to protect and respect human rights and to fulfil all their commitments under the universal declaration of human rights and the international conventions to which vietnam is a signatory. the resolution of parliament gave the message extra strength, and i would like to thank the european parliament for that. we have also informed vietnam about the new and important role of the european parliament, particularly in relation to the future partnership and cooperation agreement. an eu delegation visited bat nha monastery and phuoc hue pagoda on 8-10 december 2009, where nearly 200 remaining members of plum village have taken refuge. we then spoke with the religious leaders and the local authorities to get more information about the current situation. the eu will also continue to monitor very closely the situation at phuoc hue pagoda.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i think this a question dear to you as well. låt mig börja med att påminna om vad som sades i rådets slutsatser av den 8 december. där skriver rådet följande: ”island är ett land med gamla och djupa demokratiska traditioner och har potentialen att ge ett viktigt bidrag till eu, både strategiskt och politiskt. landet är redan nära integrerat med eu på flera områden genom sitt medlemskap i europeiska ekonomiska samarbetsområdet och schengenområdet.” islands ansökan om medlemskap i europeiska unionen överlämnades officiellt i stockholm den 16 juli 2009 till det svenska ordförandeskapet. jag var själv med och tog emot den. ansökan vidarebefordrades omedelbart till medlemmarna i rådet. vid mötet den 27 juli 2009 erinrade rådet om den förnyade konsensus om utvidgning som återges i slutsatserna från europeiska rådets möte i december 2006, inbegripet principen att varje land ska bedömas efter sina egna meriter, och vi beslutade att inleda det förfarande som anges i artikel 49 i fördraget om europeiska unionen. kommissionen uppmanades därför att lägga fram ett yttrande för rådet om denna ansökan. ansökan kommer att bedömas enligt principerna i fördraget, de kriterier som fastställdes vid europeiska rådets möte i köpenhamn 1993 och slutsatserna från europeiska rådets möte i december 2006. i enlighet med de slutsatser som allmänna rådet antog förra veckan så kommer det att ta upp frågan igen när kommissionen har lämnat sitt yttrande. detta bör göra det möjligt för rådet att fatta ett beslut om ett eventuellt inledande av förhandlingar med island under de första månaderna av det spanska ordförandeskapet.
president-in-office of the council. − the icelandic application has to be dealt with in accordance with the rules and procedures, and the commission has not yet finalised its scrutiny and its elaboration of the opinion. they are making progress, as is iceland, and they have already appointed their negotiation teams and are prepared to be very thorough but quick in their work. i think therefore that we can count on the commission presenting an opinion at the beginning of next year and hopefully the council can take a decision on further measures.
acting president of the council. − large amounts of waste are produced in the eu member states every day. of course, how we deal with this has major implications for the environment. the commission's recently published report on the implementation of eu waste legislation concludes that, while some member states have made progress, huge implementation efforts are needed in many countries to ensure that waste management infrastructure meets eu requirements. the implementation of the landfill directive is particularly difficult. as regards the removal of biodegradable waste from landfills, the commission report states that only nine countries reached their reduction targets in 2006, according to the rather limited data available. in its june 2009 conclusions, the council has already stated that we agree with the commission. it is very important to meet the eu's targets for reducing biodegradable waste in landfills. the council also invited the commission to continue its impact assessment to prepare a proposal for eu legislation on biodegradable waste, if appropriate. the council considered that the need for eu legislation, in particular on the recycling of biodegradable waste through composting and energy recovery in biogas plants with subsequent recycling of residual waste, should be taken into account. the council also noted that better management of bio-waste would contribute to a more sustainable management of our resources, to increased soil protection, to the fight against climate change and, not least, to the achievement of the objectives of landfill, recycling and renewable energy.
president-in-office of the council. − i have to confess that i am not an expert on this theme, but, as far as i understood from the commission statements, the appropriate infrastructure to deal with it is missing and it is quite costly to put into place. it is of course beneficial in the long term, but member states have not invested in the appropriate infrastructure and that is why it has taken so much time.
acting president of the council. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. we have had a clear ambition to increase the transparency of the council's work in all areas. i would mention, for example, the presidency's website, where information on meetings, background documents and links to webcasts have been available in three languages. in the past months, the presidency has also done its utmost to ensure that the transparency provisions of the council's rules of procedure are applied. in july, september, october and november 2009, 20 public debates were held on the initiative of the swedish presidency, in accordance with rule 8 (3) of the rules of procedure. a public debate was also held on the presidency's work programme for the work of the ecofin council. this has resulted in 21 public debates over four months. as regards the number of public consultations, 59 acts were adopted publicly as a-points under the codecision procedure and nine legislative proposals were discussed as b-points in a public council meeting. in addition, a public consultation was held on the initiative of the presidency. if the honourable member thinks that this sounds a bit like a lot, it must be remembered that the number of items on the council's agenda where deliberations are to be public varies slightly depending on the number of items which are codecision. the new parliament has also not had as many items as usual. the new commission will certainly increase the number of legislative proposals to be considered by the council and the european parliament and the number of items will increase. moreover, now that the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, all council meetings concerning the part of the agenda relating to legislative deliberations are public. the swedish presidency welcomes this improvement in the it will make the european union more effective and more democratic. in conclusion, i would like to mention that yesterday the swedish presidency took the initiative of meeting the interinstitutional working party on transparency with commission vice-president margot wallström and vice-president diana wallis. we discussed a number of very concrete proposals to make information in the eu institutions more accessible and user-friendly for europe's citizens.
it is rare that there is occasion for almost any particular form of emotion in the plenary. i consider it an honor and a pleasure that we, of all people, are here to have this last dialogue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'd be interested to know what message you're leaving us, what successors could actually improve. i am thinking of the council working parties. i am not happy with the number of items on the agenda which have been made publicly available so far, nor with the way in which the documents have been obtained. do you see the long-term prospects, based on your experience of 10 years in european politics, of us getting to where sweden has been for decades in terms of transparency?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have probably also heard that there is a great deal of concern and unease in the committee on regional development because a so-called secret commission document has been circulating since october. this includes a draft budget reform for the period 2013-2020, which represents a 180-degree turn in budgetary policy. the original regional budget would be abandoned in favour of a sectoral one. the new draft represents a massive restriction on the principles of subsidiarity and multilevel governance, which would again be contrary to the lisbon strategy. the draft specifically provides for the deletion of objective 2, namely competitiveness and employment policy. since there are objective 2 regions in every member state, this would of course also affect two thirds of all eu regions. the reason for this unfortunate proposal is also that the difference between the new - and future - member states and western europe at national level is so great that a new budgetary policy is needed. the aim was to stimulate the economy in the face of the financial crisis. it is obvious to me that this proposal is already anticipating the possible accession of turkey. we know that there are increased financial needs, and this is also the plan to secure the huge financial resources needed for accession. but i want to make it clear that at the regional level, the success of cohesion policy is closely linked to local economic problems! this means that the money is being invested in a sensible and efficient way, as it has been in the past. without the regional component, the economic crisis will certainly not be solved. i was not convinced by barroso's reply to mrs hübner's open and concerned letter and i therefore expect a speedy and concrete statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. everyone - or at least many - talks about the european social model, but this is not reflected enough in the eu budget, including cohesion policy. i therefore call for an independent european social fund, separate from european structural policy. the csf is to be strengthened financially and made more flexible. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget and will continue to monitor the implementation of the budget. the commission has also proposed that the european regional development fund should be used to finance the development of the regions concerned, in particular those which are most vulnerable to the effects of the structural change. the esf is thus intended to contribute even more to tackling labour market problems such as high unemployment, low female employment rates, high school drop-outs and low rates of continuing training.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i see our role here as the house and the role of the european union as creating the conditions for people in all member states, in the regions where they live, to achieve the highest possible quality of life. the conditions for this are very different in europe. we therefore need a strong and adequately funded cohesion policy. we must reject all the arguments we have heard today that are a departure from the path we have taken. we don't need to renationalize! we need instruments to support all european regions, those which are disadvantaged but also those which have already made very positive progress. because we can't risk what we've already achieved. we need a transparent system of support which, on the one hand, allows easy access, but on the other hand, ensures that the funds are used efficiently and correctly. we must think european but act regionally!
in writing. the europe of the regions is a principle that the eu has long been committed to. cohesion policy post-2013 must continue to deliver on this vision. a good approach is to pursue territorial cohesion as a primary objective in itself. interregional cooperation also plays an important role in this context. in recent decades, some success stories have been written on interregionality. the various eu projects in this field make europe directly accessible to citizens and also bring european policy to the regional level. but there is work for the future. interregionality requires good coordination to reconcile the different structures of different nation states. other important cornerstones for regional policy in the coming years are additionality in funding, cross-sectoral cooperation and conditionality. to ensure that funding reaches the people who need it, projects must have specific objectives. i also believe that careful long-term planning is an added value and prevents the waste of valuable financial resources.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the eu budget for 2010. i am particularly pleased that in this budget, although it is the last eu budget negotiated on the basis of the treaty of nice, on the basis of which the european parliament has no formal decisionmaking power on agricultural expenditure, it has managed to negotiate a budget title of eur 300 million to support dairy farmers.
in writing. − in times of economic crisis, when citizens are suffering from a wave of redundancies and cuts in social benefits, the european union must also save. of course, difficult economic times require measures to stimulate the economy, but whether instruments such as the european recovery programme can achieve this is doubtful. in the past, well-publicized eu programmes have remained paper tigers, and various eu subsidies have proved to be an invitation to abuse of any kind. for years, the taxpayers' hard-earned money has been pouring into some dark channels. instead of further inflating the eu budget, there should be a far-reaching renationalisation of the subsidy system. that is why i reject the present draft budget.
in writing. - in the vote on thursday 17 december 2009, i voted against resolution b7-0194/2009 by michael cashman on the necessary revision of the legal framework for access to documents following the entry into force of the lisbon treaty (regulation (ec) no 1049/2001) for the following reasons: this resolution addresses issues that are not related to the issue of transparency per se and includes demands that, by their scope, would not be constructive in ensuring transparency. i would like to emphasize that i am very much in favour of transparency and public access to documents, but that these important objectives will not be achieved by meeting the demands of michael cashman, but only by dealing with the issue responsibly, as is shown in the epp resolution by renate sommer, simon busuttil and manfred weber on this subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on belarus because it presents the situation in a balanced way, and shows both the positive aspects and the progress made, as well as the democratic deficit in many areas. i believe it would be particularly important for the belarusian government to urgently guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of assembly and association, which also allows opposition parties to operate.
in writing. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. despite the high human and financial commitment of the international community, peace and stability have not been achieved. on the contrary, the un soldiers are accused of taking sides and contributing to the further escalation of the situation. i must clarify this matter. the cost of over seven billion euros for this un mission, including humanitarian aid, is enormous and can only be justified if there is clarity about the exact use of the funds. i have abstained because the resolution does not clearly require this.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. let me tell you a little story. four or five years ago, i was in kampala myself, and i met with lesbians, gays and transgender people in a pizzeria, one night, and the owner allowed it. that evening, a government minister said that in future raids will be carried out in places where lesbian, gay and transgender people meet. i was a little scared that night, too, just like the ugandan lesbians and gays. nothing happened that night, thankfully, but it was the beginning of a growing homophobia in uganda. and now this proposal for a law that not only criminalizes homosexuality, as it already is, but also brings the death penalty. so many african leaders - like museveni - have done a lot for their countries, but to assume now that homosexuality is un-african is simply wrong. homosexuality has existed in all cultures, on all continents, at all times, and it will continue to exist no matter what laws are passed. i am glad that we have managed to reach a joint resolution on this from almost all the political groups, because it is important to express this and to empower lesbian, gay and transgender people in uganda, not to accuse them of hate laws and say nothing about it. as the european union, we have a duty to speak out on human rights throughout the world and to remind the ugandan members of parliament that, for example, the cotonou agreement clearly states that human dignity and human rights are for everyone and must be defended by everyone. i also hope that the resolution as we have it will be adopted in its entirety, because it also means that organisations which are fighting for the rights of lesbian, gay and transgender people will also be supported in uganda, also by the european union.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the rapporteur has already mentioned some of the details of this resolution. the resolution was prompted by an incident in july 2009 where two young bloggers, emin milli and adnan hajizade, were arrested after being attacked in a restaurant, went to the police to report the incident, and were arrested themselves. they were then tried in a trial that all international observers, including amnesty international, found to be anything but fair. for example, the video that was apparently taken in this restaurant, and which clearly showed who attacked whom, and that the attackers were not these two bloggers, but others, was not shown. so it is quite clear that this conviction does not meet the criteria of a rule of law, and i very much hope that in the second trial, if it takes place, everything must be shown. i am glad that we have succeeded in securing a resolution from almost all the political groups. i regret that mr provera's group does not agree with me and stresses that we should wait and that the case will resolve itself and that diplomatic channels should be used. i think, mr provera, that it is necessary for parliament, which is in partnership with the azerbaijani parliament, to make a clear statement. human rights are fundamental - and my colleague, mrs schaake, spoke of the sakharov prize here yesterday - and it is necessary that we speak out for and defend intellectual freedom in all parts of the world. president aliyev himself has said many times how important the rights of every journalist are and that they must be defended by the state. it is our duty to remind them of this, and i very much hope that in future there will be a resolution on partnership cooperation between the azerbaijani parliament and the european parliament, unlike two weeks ago, where unfortunately this was not possible.
