president. - ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteurs have worked hard to produce an agreement which deserves our support. firstly, because it pursues ambitious environmental and health objectives and secondly, because it remains economically rational in agriculture and thus also takes account of both food security and the viability of agriculture in the union. as always, a compromise is a give and take. i still have some difficulty with the cut-off criteria, because i would have preferred to have based the selection on a scientifically based risk analysis, but i admit that the possibility of derogation makes things possible. on the positive side, i would like to emphasize the following points: firstly, the fact that member states have a margin of discretion in setting the volume reduction targets. secondly, the division of the union into three zones, with mutual recognition of authorizations, which brings us closer to a single market with less hassle and faster availability of better plant protection products. thirdly, the fact that member states have sufficient flexibility to determine how buffer zones around watercourses are handled; finally, it is also good that member states can take measures to facilitate the application of plant protection products to small crops. for countries with intensive agriculture, with small areas, this is really important and i hope that the fund for minor users will receive sufficient financial input. president. - as little as possible, as safely as possible, but as much as necessary for safe and profitable cultivation, that is a good guideline. if we recognize and control sensibly and if we are committed to professional or informed use, and if we also take into account that agricultural production is taking place on a world market, then we are balanced and therefore the compromise deserves our support.
the directive on the sustainable and risk-reducing use of pesticides and the regulation on the marketing of pesticides are both extremely necessary and useful. sustainable food production and consumption is a basic human right. we have two compromises between parliament and the council. our group will approve both texts, although we would naturally have liked to have had an even stronger final result. i am also very surprised by the approach and the fierce protests of the agricultural lobby and the pesticide industry in this dossier. the laws we are voting on tomorrow will, however, ensure better protection of people and the environment and will also ultimately result in more innovation and safer substitutes. the criticism of the agricultural lobby that more than half of the pesticides will be eliminated can no longer be maintained. now even the agricultural organizations admit that at most 9% of the products will have to disappear, and not immediately, but over a period of several years. the protection of public health against substances which may cause cancer, alter dna, impair fertility or disrupt hormones remains crucial. the compromise on this is honourable, with respect for the agricultural world. it was even agreed that if a specific agricultural sector is in danger of getting into trouble, a separate plan could be drawn up to give that sector more time. i believe that we are here making an honourable and acceptable compromise between ecology on the one hand and agricultural economics on the other.
madam president, the citizens of europe should be pleased today with the very good agreement reached by the commission, the council and, of course, our rapporteurs on the pesticide issue, and this in a climate of, as has been said, very intense and particularly effective lobbying, if i am to hear this debate, in great britain and ireland. a package of legislation which reconciles health and the environment, competitiveness and innovation, instead of opposing them as is too often the case. it must be borne in mind that, while the 800 or so chemical molecules involved play an undeniable role in protecting crops against pests, there are many voices today denouncing the exposure of populations to preventable health risks and i am thinking, of course, in particular of farmers, who are more exposed than others to certain harmful substances, cmrs or endocrine disruptors. the who figures are encouraging, one million serious pesticide poisonings with some 220,000 deaths each year. it is this philosophy of all chemistry, of the cocktail effect, of a short-term view of agriculture that is being called into question today, a necessary change of course which, tomorrow, if the compromise is of course accepted by our plenary, will bring an ambitious, realistic and resolutely modern pesticide policy to the baptismal font. ambitious, because the europeans want to get rid of dangerous products, as we do, and they also support a ban on aerial spraying and stronger protection for public areas; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i conclude, madam president, that this pesticide package is modern because integrated pesticide management is an essential part of a new agricultural policy, with less but better pesticides for europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to add my voice to what has already been said by my colleagues. i am very disappointed in your answer. you say, of course, that the commission is coming up with a number of proposals on urban mobility. i'd say that's pretty obvious. but that's not what we asked. what we are asking for is a coherent vision, an action plan detailing what measures, what proposals the commission will launch in the coming years, so that we can have a debate about it, not only among ourselves but also with the public and with all the possible stakeholders and parties concerned. i would therefore ask you to report to your colleagues, to urge them to reconsider after this debate in parliament and to come forward with a proposal very quickly before the elections, before the closure of this parliament. it has been said by colleagues on several occasions: urban mobility is something that everyone in europe faces. in all our cities we have mobility problems. at european level, the union can play a very positive role in solving these and related problems; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to reconsider your answer and come forward with an action plan as the commission will do shortly.
member of the commission. − madam president, as has already been mentioned, my colleague ms kroes had a small accident so that is why she cannot be with us. on 4 november 2008 the commission published, for consultation until 15 january, a draft new broadcast communication. we are serious about the process of wide consultation. parliament’s committee on culture and education has scheduled a hearing for 5 march and, as has already been mentioned, the ppe-de group already held such a hearing on thursday, last week, in the presence of the director-general for competition, philip lowe. this dialogue between the commission and parliament is important. we stand ready to listen and to reply to your questions. we also know that parliament agreed in september 2008 that state aid to public broadcasters should be delivered so that they fulfil their function in a dynamic environment, avoiding the use of public funding for reasons of political or economic expediency. this concurs with our views; both public and private broadcasting are important. the dual system of broadcasting is an answer to europe’s media landscape which must be safeguarded on all platforms. the draft broadcasting communication therefore seeks to consolidate the commission’s state aid case practised since their existing 2001 communication. the draft ensures that our rules reflect the rapidly changing new media environment. the objective of modernising the communication is to increase transparency and legal certainty. the draft communication clarifies that public broadcasters shall provide audiovisual services on all media platforms while leaving private operators sufficient incentives to stay in the market. this is ensured by the so-called amsterdam test, which balances the value and the negative effects of publicly financed media services at the national level. why do we have these tests? because having these tests at the national level helps to avoid commission intervention. the commission increasingly receives complaints about borderline cases where a public media activity may have no clear value for citizens but where the market impact appears considerable. the commission, however, feels that repeated interventions in this sector would not be in the spirit of subsidiarity. this is why we want member sates to share the commission’s responsibility for controlling the market impact of state finance media services. the amsterdam test will ensure that new media services of public broadcasters satisfy the social, democratic and cultural needs of viewers and listeners while limiting the collateral damage for state aid for private operators to a minimum. we cannot agree that the amsterdam test would involve an unjustifiable administrative burden. of course, any test involves work but the minimum effort we require is reasonable and necessary. firstly, the test is only foreseen for important and truly new services; and here our draft leaves a large margin of appreciation to member states. each member state can decide when a new audiovisual service actually merits being tested. secondly, the draft exempts pilot projects from the test. public broadcasters can therefore continue experimenting with new media without any preliminary tests. thirdly, the draft leaves member states full freedom to choose their adequate procedures and institutions which apply the test. it is finally worth mentioning that smaller member states, such as belgium and ireland, already implement such tests. the solutions found in these countries are proportionate to the resources available. as the test is quite broad there is also no possibility of infringing on editorial freedom. the test merely requires that a public media service satisfies the social, democratic and cultural needs of society and that its impact on the market is commensurate. to safeguard editorial independence we also open the possibility in the draft that, under certain conditions, the test is done by a public broadcaster itself. in summary, i would say the amsterdam test should be seen as an opportunity rather than as a threat. it will help to maintain media pluralism in the new media environment by safeguarding fairness and certainty for both commercial media, including online newspapers and our excellent public media.
i would like to ask you to convey our best wishes to your colleague mrs kroes, because we understand that she has gone off the rails. we hope, of course, that mrs kroes will be back with us as soon as possible. we naturally agree, commissioner, that you as the commission are and will continue to be the guarantor of a level playing field for all actors in the audiovisual field, both public and private broadcasters. it is crucial for a balanced supply and it will only improve quality. but what the commission is now proposing and what mr visser has already made very clear is contrary to that for various reasons. i would like to make a small preliminary remark, commissioner, to what you have just said, that the market test you propose is already being applied in belgium, among other countries. well, part of it is true, part of it is not true. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the use of the internet. it does look a little different. i would like to say a few words about our reservations about the proposal. my main objection is that it curses the lisbon strategy. the fact is that in many member states today it is the public service broadcasters who are the catalyst and the stimulus for innovation in the media. of course, it must remain so. i think what we're doing now with the administrative hand-wringing that's holding back innovation is going in the wrong direction. the development of new platforms, particularly in the digital context, on broadband, on the internet, etc., costs a lot of money; the best way to spread such investments as widely as possible and to develop them jointly. private and public broadcasters can then offer content together on a common platform, and it is in the field of content that competition should be exercised in order to maximise the benefits for consumers. but don't get us wrong. we are 100% in favour of a balanced competitive relationship between public and private broadcasting. there has to be room for both of them to come up with quality content. and that the public broadcasters have to be accountable for the money, the public money, that they deal with, that they work with, is clear; however, we are convinced that this is not the best way. in this connection, the british example of the bbc is worth mentioning, where alliances between different partners are proposed in the fields of exploitation, production and distribution. i think that is a good example and i expect the commission to continue to think along these lines in a very voluntary way.
in writing. - i fully agree with the content and recommendations of mr bas belder on the strengthening of trade and economic relations with the western balkans. the eu has a vital role to play in the recovery of this region. the stabilisation and association agreements, trade preferences and technical and financial assistance are the three pillars on which the eu aims to stabilise the region. it is true that the level of development and adoption of the acquis communautaire is not the same in all the countries of the region and that, therefore, specific approaches, so to speak 'tailor-made', must be chosen rather than a single strategy. albania is not montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina is not kosovo. the progress of accession negotiations (or their opening to potential candidate countries) with the western balkan countries should of course be conditional on full compliance with the copenhagen criteria and unconditional respect for the principles of democracy and human rights. but it is clear that all these countries have a future in the eu and that their membership will ensure that the terrible conflicts that have characterised this region for centuries will never happen again.
in writing. - i may be living on another planet, but i seem to remember that in 2005 the dutch and french people rejected the european constitution in a democratic referendum. that constitution is dead and buried, at least if we call ourselves democrats. the same was true of the damned lisbon treaty, the barely-retouched version of the constitution, which was rejected by the irish in a democratic referendum. but as if nothing were wrong, and speaking with the greatest cynicism of a so-called 'dialogue with the citizens in the framework of the lisbon treaty', europe refuses to submit to the opinion of the people and wants to push the constitution through the back door into the throats of the europeans. this is called 'dialogue with the citizen'. this is called a 'strong culture of consultation and dialogue'. the rapporteur cynically quotes article 10 of the treaty on european union: "every citizen has the right to participate in the democratic order". that may be true, but europe does not take that democratic vote into account.
in writing. - the grabowska report is yet another example of the scandalous way in which this parliament is treating the principles it claims to uphold. "dialogue with the citizen in the framework of the lisbon treaty", what a joke. the lisbon treaty, the disguised ex-european constitution, was thrown out in referendums in the netherlands and france, and then in ireland. in other member states, people are afraid to even hold a referendum. so if we are to seek a dialogue with the citizens, it is important to start by respecting democracy. if the result of a referendum is not in line with the eurocratic nomenclature, this does not necessarily mean that the electoral system is not sensible enough. the opposite is true! in any case, i voted against this report again, with conviction. not spe, not metu.
in writing. - i already said yesterday during the debate that i regard the compromise before us as an honourable compromise and that the greens/efa group in the ep will agree to it. i would like to stress, however, that in order to reach an agreement with the agricultural lobby and the pesticide industry, we did make some concessions. i still regret the fact that we have not reached the 50% target. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is perfectly possible for member states not to be too ambitious, which could lead to an overly cautious approach. the result achieved in establishing buffer zones along watercourses is also weakening. that too is now left to the member states. a minimum distance set at european level would have been better from an environmental and public health point of view. on the other hand, it does provide for better protection in public places frequented by vulnerable groups (parks, sports and recreation areas, schools, etc.). in flanders this was already being addressed and now all the governments in europe will have to address this.
in writing. - i already said yesterday during the debate that i regard the compromise before us as an honourable compromise and that the greens/efa group in the ep will agree to it. i would like to stress, however, that in order to reach an agreement with the agricultural lobby and the pesticide industry, we did make some concessions. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the commission has also proposed a number of amendments to the proposal. we had our doubts about the zonal approach. three zones over such a large area seem to us to be problematic, because environmental conditions can vary greatly within such a zone. it is a positive thing that the legal basis is based on agriculture, the internal market and public health, with public health concerns given priority in the relevant recitals and article 1. the cut-off criteria for substances that have unacceptable effects on bees are also a good thing. the requirement to replace dangerous products more quickly with safe alternatives was also accepted. it could have been better, but what we voted for is an acceptable compromise.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, carlos coelho, and the former french presidency, who is not here, of course, for having made it possible to reach an agreement at first reading. it took the will to do so and the ability to compromise. i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, carlos, because his explanatory statement - i would ask my colleagues to read it - is a small marvel of intelligence and political skill. if we analyse the text we are given, there is in fact a great principle, which is the revolutionary principle of this report. the revolutionary principle is not biometric data - it was decided since 2004 - it is the principle of "one person - one passport". this means that there is a problem of children and the age at which children can be fingerprinted. the compromise was extremely difficult, let us not hide it. some, like carlos at the beginning, would have wanted it to be as early as possible to protect the children from the earliest possible age. but then you had to have biometric data that was reliable, which is not guaranteed at the moment. finally, the compromise reached is that fingerprints are compulsory for children from the age of 12. the commission will have to report in the coming years on the evaluation of the system as it is now operating and propose - as provided for in the text - amendments if necessary. so we have to hope that technology will make tremendous progress because the ideal thing to do to protect all children would be to have reliable and comparable biometric data as early as possible. it is in this spirit that we can sign our agreement to this text, which i would like to congratulate once again, together with its rapporteur, the commission on its initial proposal and the council on its compromise spirit.
mr president, i think the rapporteur is quite right to point out a number of points of concern which are largely related to the fact that the collection, processing and comparison of biometric passenger data is relatively new. it is therefore wise to evaluate the whole procedure thoroughly every three years, as proposed. it is also of the utmost importance that a certain degree of harmonisation be introduced in the handling of these biometric data, because the chain is only as strong as its weakest link. the abolition of internal borders in the european union should in theory lead to increased surveillance of external borders, but in reality the whole system still has very large gaps. these loopholes are gratefully exploited by networks of international crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and illegal immigration. if we are to achieve a more efficient border control system, it is high time that biometric data were an effective part of it.
we all applauded the decision to allocate 1 billion euros to the poorest farmers in the countries most affected by the food crisis, although i personally regret that the commission's proposal to use unused agricultural funds for this purpose has been rejected under pressure from some member states and also from part of parliament. as the commissioner says, the commission attaches great importance to micro-credit as an effective instrument in the fight against poverty. but recently there have also been some questions, some criticism, particularly in terms of accessibility. they say it's an instrument in the cities that doesn't reach the countryside. my question to the commission is: has an overall evaluation of the instrument been carried out?
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are not going to be able to do that. in a democracy, the people decide. in the countries where the people had an effective say - france, the netherlands and ireland - the treaty of lisbon, aka the european constitution, was thrown into the trash. i hope that the new presidency will also take an effective and even more active stand on the side of the citizens and freedom and not, as we are used to seeing in most presidencies, on the side of the arrogant european mandarins. there is also the question of turkey. the vast majority of europeans do not want to hear about the accession of a non-european country to our union. but the eurocrats are also pushing their will on this issue and we need the help of the czech presidency. the czech republic has not so long ago shaken off a dictatorship. your presidency over the next six months, if you dare to go against that eu nomenclature, can be a beacon of democracy and freedom.
i have gladly and with conviction approved the coelho report on biometric data in eu passports, because it is at least a good step in the fight against the very many abuses and falsifications of passports. at least this is a form of harmonization to which we can subscribe, which is useful and even necessary, especially in the schengen countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this is a step in the right direction, because at the moment the external border is not yet adequately protected. one caveat, though: better passports alone are not enough. every year, hundreds of thousands of non-european foreigners enter our continent, europe. legal immigrants, semi-legal immigrants and also illegal immigrants. in my country, belgium, more than 70,000 non-european immigrants arrived last year, plus an unknown number of illegal immigrants. that's a tidal wave that we have to stop, and better passports alone are not enough.
mr president, in my career in this parliament i have rarely read such a large catalogue of politically correct nonsense and so-called progressive clichés as in the catania report. it is a crime, moreover, that a report on so-called fundamental rights de facto takes as its starting point the treaty of lisbon, a treaty which was rejected in the referendums and which at the moment has no legal basis whatsoever. what arrogance! i wonder if fundamental rights do not count for european citizens and only for the eurocracy. i am missing one fundamental right in this report, namely the right of people, for example people of their own people, to feel at home and safe in their own country, to defend their self-made prosperity, to preserve their language, their culture, their traditions, their laws. that would be a first in this temple of political correctness. the massive adoption of the catania report has made parliament a sickly laughing stock.
mr president, the right to freedom of expression and the way in which that right can be exercised is without doubt the most important indicator of the situation of fundamental rights. the report rightly warns against the unofficial censorship and self-censorship that results from excluding certain subjects from public debate. the report also warns against individuals and groups who wish to silence others by falsely claiming to be under constant attack. but what is totally incomprehensible is the call to: "the determined prosecution of any hate speech in racist media programs and articles that preach intolerance". that is precisely the kind of thing that leads to the censorship and self-censorship that is deplored elsewhere in the report. it is the kind of legislation which has led to the conviction of the largest flemish political party in belgium for criticising the country's immigration policy. so you have to know what you want. we cannot be a little in favour of free speech, either we are in favour of free speech and accept all the consequences of it, or we are against it.
mr president, i have rarely voted against a report with such conviction as i did today. if we follow the recommendations in this report, we will tomorrow be installing in the european union a dictatorship of political correctness, which will continue to restrict freedom of expression on issues such as asylum and immigration in the guise of so-called anti-racism in high-minded declarations of principle. this report seeks to open the doors to legal and illegal immigration in the european union even further and does not put the right to security of citizens at the centre, but instead considers that it is the rights of criminals that should be recognised as so-called fundamental rights. the world is upside down. rights and duties go together in a normal society. but in this voluminous report i do not find a word about any obligation on foreigners to integrate into our european society. on the contrary, it is only we europeans who are being accused ad nauseam. well, our citizens are more than tired of being stigmatised by the european mandarins.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the coelho report, and i am convinced that this report is based on common sense. it is good that the process of consolidation and harmonisation of the use of biometric data in passports and travel documents is being pursued, especially since the abolition of the internal european borders has shown the need for increased security checks at the external borders. the use of a uniform and harmonised system of biometric data will help to combat crime more effectively. this report provides a first cautious impulse to do so.
in writing. − this legislation allows for the storage of fingerprints in passports/travel documents to verify the authenticity of the document and the identity of the holder. i voted in favour of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. the positive aspect is that fingerprints of children under 12 years of age can only be taken in member states where such legislation already exists. compared with the commission and council's option of taking fingerprints from children as young as six, this is a step forward. there's a price tag attached to fingerprinting. a visa is now 60 euros. the mandatory fingerprinting will raise that price considerably. a family with four children who wants to travel will have to spend a lot of money before they leave. in any case, i am opposed to the excessive use of fingerprinting or the use of biometric data. is the soup worth the cabbage? its efficiency has not been proven, its use is not proportionate to what is desired and, moreover, it is very expensive. i therefore supported the amendments which improved the text, but finally expressed my dissatisfaction by voting against the legislative resolution.
in writing. − the protection and promotion of fundamental rights are the foundation of our european democracy and are the most important conditions for strengthening our european area of freedom, security and justice. it is therefore clear that in practice these rights are part of the objectives of the various eu policy areas. we also ask the council to include in the annual reports on human rights an analysis of the situation in the world and in each eu member state, in the interests of europe's creditworthiness and to avoid double standards in its internal and external policies. the amendments tabled by the green group on anti-discrimination, minority rights and social rights were adopted in full or in large part. we have also succeeded in having a reference made to the need to take account of fundamental rights in the legislation on criminal proceedings. the catania report identifies the problems with fundamental rights and makes recommendations to solve them. i therefore fully support it, because the greens have a strong commitment to respect for all people and their fundamental rights, regardless of gender, age, nationality or socioeconomic background.
in writing. - i voted against this report because this un human rights council cannot be called a legitimate institution at all. it is unacceptable to me that countries such as cuba, saudi arabia, egypt, pakistan, jordan and a number of african regimes can issue resolutions condemning the human rights situation in other countries. the situation of dissidents and dissenters in these countries makes this institution totally unreliable.
in writing. − i am in favour of the greatest possible openness in all eu institutions and therefore voted in favour of this report with full conviction. it is good that the various european institutions are being seriously criticised. the european council cuts through the big political knots and discusses very important and controversial issues. it is also unsatisfactory and unacceptable that the council does not allow the exact positions of the various national delegations to be known at the time of decision-making. on the other hand, this parliament must first of all set its own house in order and ensure the greatest possible transparency in all its aspects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report with full conviction. une fois n'est pas coutume, we must welcome the serious criticism of some of the european institutions. one note, though. the european council has the final say and ultimately decides on very important and controversial issues and it is therefore unacceptable that the council does not allow the positions of the various national delegations to be public at the time of decision-making. on the other hand, this parliament must first set its own house in order and ensure the greatest possible openness in all its aspects before it gives lessons to others.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, one day we will have to say what is right and what is wrong, but i believe that today it is more urgent to formulate our demands, which are: an immediate ceasefire with a halt to rocket fire towards israel, an end to israeli operations in gaza and the delivery of humanitarian aid, a lasting ceasefire with a halt to arms and ammunition trafficking, effective surveillance of the border between egypt and gaza, withdrawal of israeli troops and reopening of the crossing points and finally, lifting of the embargo, and all this, simultaneously. it will be an extremely complex phase which will undoubtedly or very probably require the presence of an international force, and i think the union must prepare itself to participate in it. i would like to add two things. to succeed, the european union must speak and act clearly and not in a dispersed manner. good feelings are very useful, but efficiency is more important. the united states must also be involved, as must the arab league and its member countries. finally, i would add that to offer a real alternative to the situation in gaza, israel will have to improve the situation in the west bank considerably: 634 checkpoints, the doubling of the road network, eight-metre high walls, plus the countless harassments inflicted on the palestinians do not offer an alternative attractive enough to the inhabitants of gaza to turn them away from hamas. finally, i say that there will inevitably come a time when everyone will have to talk to everyone else. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, i have spoken so many times before this house about seizing every opportunity for peace, about dialogue with hamas, despite everything, because it won the elections, that i do not want to go back on these issues. i am overwhelmed with sadness and anger, and if i do not want to be overwhelmed today by the emotion of this massacre, by the war propaganda i hear around me, by the amalgamations, also by the wave of hatred and anti-semitism that is beginning to sweep our streets, i would have only a few words. europe must return to its foundations, and for me these are self-evident, but sometimes it is good to recall them. first, the life of a palestinian is worth the life of an israeli, not only his life, but also his future and his freedom. secondly, international law must be respected and international law is, of course, the immediate ceasefire, but it is also all the un resolutions, the geneva conventions. but today this region has become a lawless zone where everything seems to be allowed, with a population held hostage. thirdly, justice must be done for all these crimes, whatever they are and wherever they come from. there will never be security without peace, nor peace without justice. and transitional justice exists, it is meant to exist, otherwise the hatred will continue to spread and we have accumulated in the last few days a potential of hatred that will be more dangerous than bombs. europe must enforce the terms of its partnership agreements, including paragraph 2 of the association agreements on respect for human rights, and this is an obligation of these treaties from which it cannot be exempted. israel is no exception. it has state responsibilities and cannot be put on the same footing as hamas, and there is no pass-through in international law. we left behind in gaza on sunday a population trapped, locked in a bombed-out ghetto, and hundreds of thousands of children whose future we carry today and we left gaza only because we are europeans. palestinians only leave rafah with their feet in front of them in ambulances because they are dead or because they are injured. europe will no longer be europe and no citizen will recognize himself in it if we forget these fundamentals. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, i would like to start by echoing what daniel cohn-bendit said. it is the despair that has come to us today, this war is a tragedy. the images of suffering and death that have been pouring onto our screens for the last three weeks are unbearable, as are, i would like to say, all the images of war, all the conflicts, including those that are singularly under-reported, not to mention congo, darfur, zimbabwe and, before that, chechnya, whose horrors have been unfolding in media silence, and also political, i would like to emphasize, deafening. i have already pointed out here, on several occasions, the variable-geometry indignation of some of my colleagues. but mrs morgantini has often said that there is no accounting for the dead, no hierarchy of suffering, that every man, woman and child who dies, on one side or the other, is a victim too many. so what can we do now to ensure that our debate today is not, as it so often is, a somewhat useless, sterile confrontation? it is precisely the pointlessness of continuing to dwell on the historical responsibility of each side. i'm speaking late in this debate, so the arguments have been heard. we can certainly question the extent of the israeli crisis, the israeli response, but in no case its right to security. which of our western governments would accept thousands of missiles falling on its citizens without reacting? asking the question is answering it. beyond the call, as we have said, for a negotiated ceasefire, the guarantee of humanitarian aid, the end of the supply of arms through the tunnels, the real question today must be prospective. the foundations of peace are known, they have already been marked at taba, at camp david, at annapolis. the commissioner called him back. not all of them, of course, but the main ones are on the table and that means sacrifices on both sides. and when i speak of renunciation, i join mr schulz, who is not here at the moment. the question is not whether we will talk to hamas, but how, under what conditions? most of my colleagues spoke 50 seconds longer, so let me finish, mr president. the answer is what yasser arafat did in may 1989, when he declared his death-dealing, liberty-killing charter to be null and void. this word, by the way, has entered the palestinian vocabulary. inter-palestinian reconciliation, first of all, comes at this price and our role as the european union is to bring the palestinian protagonists, the israelis, but also the arab neighbours, egypt, jordan, to become partners in a lasting peace agreement. (applause) i would like to thank
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is well known, we have been debating it for years, here in the house and in the energy committee. moscow has made it clearer than ever how vulnerable and blackmailed we have become. now is the time for action. the commissioner has made it very clear: a lack of interconnection. we must work on this and we have it in our hands, we must connect the gas networks within the eu. one of the main reasons why this has not been done is that the licences are national in nature; we need to get those in better alignment. they vary from one member state to another; we need to find ways of streamlining national procedures. i know that the commission has little power in this area, but we must try to make a breakthrough. perhaps one solution - and this is also in the commission's proposal - is to appoint a coordinator for each crossborder project who can mediate the interconnections and get things moving. this coordination can also be fundamental, and is fundamental, when it comes to wind energy; i am pleased that in the second review you clearly envisage that the planned development of an offshore wind turbine network will involve coordination, particularly as regards the connection to the onshore networks. secondly, we need to invest a lot more in lng, in liquefied gas, which is much more flexible and makes us much less vulnerable. thirdly, the networks must be adapted to renewable energy which, as we know, will be generated in a decentralised manner and we must ensure that it has priority access to the grid. colleagues, commissioners, what we have to do is clear. i believe that the political will is now there to take action and that fundamental and concrete decisions will be taken in the spring.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the horn of africa is a dreadful region where internal and regional conflicts continue to undermine peace and security. they create humanitarian disasters and paralyse the development of this strategically significant region. each war, each conflict accentuates the fragility of the states. at the heart of most of these conflicts is the lack of leadership and democratic governments rightly put forward in the report of the ep delegation. what this region needs is home-grown democratisation, respect for national and international rule of law and above all national reconciliation. about somalia, i would like to emphasise that the resignation of former president yusuf and the withdrawal of ethiopian forces creates a huge window of opportunity. the time has come to pick up the pieces and bring about intra-somali peace. the somali parliament is a crucial factor for confidence-building and can make the peace process all-inclusive. furthermore, it is imperative that the eu supports the renewal and strengthening of an african union peace force. this force needs a decent un mandate. if not, ugandan and burundian forces will pull away from mogadishu leaving a security gap behind. i entirely agree with commissioner ferrero-waldner. there is a momentum for change now in somalia that should be taken advantage of. the power as well as the security vacuum must be filled. if not, the stateless chaos known as somalia will remain.
mr president, i cannot agree with the riera madurell report, not because i oppose the principle of equal treatment for men and women. on the contrary, of course, but the problem with this report and indeed with all similar reports in this politically correct house is the subterfuge it contains. how can one, for example, welcome the reversal of the burden of proof? it is, however, a basic principle of the rule of law that one must prove that one is not innocent rather than the other way around. why are companies being saddled with the obligation to submit a business plan for gender equality every year? this is pure manipulation, this is pure setting up of companies with useless nonsense, just to push through a set of principles that are accepted by everyone, but which are not always easy to put into practice. how can you force a company to hire the same number of men and women every year instead of just looking at who's best qualified for the job?
in writing. − the eu is one of the largest donors of development aid and humanitarian aid to afghanistan. between 2002 and 2007, the european commission granted a total of eur 1.4 billion in aid. this is a good report because it makes some correct points and makes some good recommendations. the eu's budgetary policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity. (by the way, is this not true of all the developing countries to which our aid is directed?) the european parliament also called for more development aid and for the commission delegation in kabul to be extended to carry out the necessary checks, audits and controls. afghanistan is the key to the fight against international terrorism. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
in writing. - i voted against this, the latest politically correct report to be put to us in this parliament for approval. first of all, i would like to point out that equal treatment for men and women has existed in the eu for a long time and that this report is therefore superfluous. i also criticise the reversal of the burden of proof in court cases (paragraph 20) which is welcomed in this report, which is unworthy of the rule of law, while at the same time giving total power to the organisations responsible for implementing this directive (paragraph 19). the fact that member states should require companies to develop annual gender business plans and ensure a balanced gender distribution within company boards is completely contrary to the freedom of enterprise. for firms in difficulty as a result of the international financial crisis, such an obligation could create further crushing additional bureaucratic hassle. in a free market with healthy firms, quality, male or female, will naturally float. there are too many examples of that.
in writing. - une fois n'est pas coutume, this is a very balanced resolution which deserves all our support because it clearly calls on both sides in the conflict to renounce violence. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a say in the middle east. the first condition for finding a solution is that hamas stops its rocket attacks on israel. israel must also curb its disproportionate violence against innocent children and civilians. i would like to remind you that, despite my support for this resolution, the terrorist organization hamas remains the main culprit in the escalation.
in writing. - i think it is right that the european parliament should speak with one voice. our efforts must be directed towards making it clear to both israel and hamas that we are opposed to all forms of military violence and that we demand full respect for the peacekeepers and aid organizations.
in writing. - i have approved the compromise which is before us, although it is less forceful and less consistent than i myself would like. i am appalled and angry at the large-scale, disproportionate offensive by the israeli air force and ground forces in a densely populated area. i am in solidarity with and concerned about the fate and safety of the 1.5 million palestinians trapped in gaza who have no possibility of leaving the gaza strip, and about the humanitarian situation of the palestinians in the west bank, who, despite the cooperative approach of the palestinian national authority, do not see any improvement in their living conditions. i regret that the compromise does not mention the problematic upgrading of eu-israel relations. i call on the council to freeze the upgrading of relations with israel until a full, complete and permanent ceasefire is agreed by all parties and israel is allowed unimpeded access for humanitarian aid. the eu and israel can only improve relations if human rights and international humanitarian law are respected, the humanitarian crisis in the gaza strip and the occupied palestinian territories is brought to an end, a comprehensive peace settlement is genuinely pursued and the ec-plo interim association agreement is fully implemented.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. parliament welcomed the slight relaxation of press freedom in belarus and the release of some political prisoners. on the other hand, it is pointed out that other dissidents are still in prison. in order to improve relations, the resolution calls for belarus to become a country without political prisoners, for the government to guarantee freedom of expression, etc. the legislation must also be changed and belarusians must be given freedom of movement. everyone agrees with that. but still, a note. should not the european parliament also draw up similar resolutions for countries with which europe has cordial relations? i am thinking, for example, of china, where the human rights situation is at least as dramatic as in belarus. or are there commercial considerations for not doing so? why these two sizes and two weights?
commissioner, you said earlier that the import of textiles from china in 2008 was still relatively good. i have to disagree with you on that point, because the figures say something quite different. last year, textile imports from china really exploded. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and that the commission will be able to take account of them in the future. that indicates that the surveillance system we have been talking about all along is failing. the double check has been abolished, as we all know. the situation, lady ashton, is untenable because we have no sanctions, no stick behind the door. these figures also show, as the previous speaker said, that there is something fundamentally wrong with the prices of these massive imports of chinese textiles. these prices have fallen by almost a third and this fall cannot be explained by exchange rate differences alone. in addition, commissioner, the cost of production in china has increased considerably in the past year, so that points in the direction of dumped prices. we are counting on you not to let that pass you by. as mrs wortmann-kool said, 350,000 jobs will be lost in two years. a large part of this is the result of unfair competition and we must respond to this. i would also like to say this, commissioner. as you know, credit insurance is now much less easily granted and this has a direct and damaging impact on exports. the french government has already developed a system of supplementary credit insurance for the textile sector, and we could perhaps recommend and further streamline this system at european level. i will not say harmonize, but try to take initiatives at european level to promote the french system a little more. can you promise us that you will take initiatives in this area as well, in your capacity as president? these initiatives do not have to cost anything. it's just a matter of political will and coordination.
it is a positive thing in itself that there is a directive which sanctions employers of illegal immigrants. it is rightly said that the possibility of finding work in the european union is an attractive factor for illegal immigration. but we must be consistent and address the other attractive factors as well. the most important of these is the impunity with which foreigners can enter europe illegally. in fact, there are member states which reward illegal immigrants, just think of the massive collective regularisations in spain, italy and belgium, among others. and then there is the hypocrisy of so-called individual regularizations on humanitarian grounds. last year alone there were as many as 12 000 in a small country like belgium. we need to deport illegals, not regularize. every regulated illegal attracts a multitude of new illegals. each member state that regularizes shall also decide to regularize for the other member states. it is not enough to address the employers. there must be a global approach to illegal immigration.
i too had intended to vote for the záborská report because it was a balanced report and does not fall into the traditional, politically correct clichés when it comes to issues such as discrimination or what is meant by it. the amendment by the green group, which i voted against, has effectively annulled the report altogether and does contain a number of very questionable points, such as the attack on the czech presidency and the gratuitous claim that home education of children would in fact be a so-called role-enhancing measure. particularly weak as an argument, but apparently any stick is good for beating the dog and for making debates, for making real arguments for a cause like a wage for working parents.
in writing. the report on the second strategic review of energy policy shows far too little coherence. i believe that the top priority for a european energy policy is to make a massive effort to create an energy-efficient economy. reducing energy consumption must be a top priority in order to achieve the objectives of climate change, sustainable development, innovation, job creation and competitiveness. this is a very effective and inexpensive way of ensuring an uninterrupted supply of energy. as i said: it creates an incredible number of jobs, both for highly and low-skilled workers. european energy policy must take account of the changing way in which energy is consumed and produced in a forward-looking manner. decentralised energy systems will have to be combined with large-scale sources of renewable energy. in addition to energy efficiency, energy saving is also of great importance. the commission has therefore decided to use insulation and other measures in the construction sector. the report overestimates the importance of nuclear energy. nuclear energy covers about a third of the total electricity demand, but only 6% of the total energy demand. in this context, it is therefore appropriate to recall that there is still no sustainable solution to the problem of (highly) radioactive waste.
in writing. - i voted with conviction in favour of the report on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. there is no question that grooming (approaching children for sexual purposes) and pedophile chat rooms should be criminalized. in addition, sexual offences against children should be covered by extraterritorial criminal law. it is also a good thing that the european union should be able to finance intervention programmes to prevent sexual offenders from reoffending from the general budget. i also support the proposal that the commission should work with the major credit card companies to examine the technical possibilities for blocking or closing down the internet payment system of websites selling child pornography. finally, i call on the seven eu member states which have not yet signed the council of europe convention on the protection of children against sexual exploitation and sexual abuse to do so. and this also applies to the 8 member states that have not yet ratified the 2000 optional protocol on the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography to the un convention on the rights of the child.
those who attack the principles of the rule of law use the methods of those who claim to oppose the rule of law. the closure of guantanamo bay prison, where the rights of the defence as we know them in our western system were not guaranteed, is a good thing. it has been emphasized enough here that it does not need to be expanded on unnecessarily. the fact that george bush, through his tough policies, has managed to spare the american people a second 9/11, does not change that much. a democracy must respect the rule of law, always and everywhere, but democracy must also consider how it can protect itself against the religious fanatics who want to destroy our open society. it's an accent that i don't find in the design texts that are before us. and finally, let us not only focus our attention on guantanamo. cuba itself, home to the us guantanamo bay enclave, is one big prison where thousands of innocent political prisoners are denied any prospect of a fair and speedy trial. we can make the same remark about our major trading partner china, which we always disregard when it comes to human rights.
everyone has known the problems of lampedusa for years: the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. it's been a rough couple of years. they are trying to reach europe by the tens of thousands, lured by unscrupulous traffickers who want to bring economic fortune seekers to europe for a lot of money. but let me be clear: the fact that lampedusa is facing harrowing scenes is primarily the result of a failed european immigration policy and should not, as has already been said here, be blamed on the italian local authorities or the people of lampedusa. europe must have the courage to send out clear signals. gentle healers make stinking wounds. there must be a firm approach to the traffickers and they cannot be punished harshly enough. we also need a strict asylum policy, one which makes it clear to the rest of the world that europe is serious about protecting its borders. europe must follow the example of the swiss who decided two years ago to tighten up immigration conditions and the right to asylum. it is the only way to send a clear signal to human traffickers and economic opportunists that europe is prepared to protect its borders to avoid social catastrophes. only then will a debate like this be unnecessary in the future.
i was going to vote for the fava report, even though it is far from perfect. i would like to express my support for the directive which seeks to tackle the employment of illegal immigrants. this is, of course, only one aspect of a much more complex problem, because action should also be taken against traffickers, against networks of support for illegal immigrants and, of course, against governments of member states who regulate illegal immigrants en masse. it is precisely this impunity that is one of the main attractions of the whole problem of illegal immigration. illegals can easily organize demonstrations, make demands, draft petitions, without the risk of being arrested and sent back to their countries of origin. it is also necessary to have a return policy which is effective and which is also effective.
the resolution on guantanamo contains a few elements that confirm the foundations of the rule of law. on the other hand, i am of course not happy with the underlying meaning of that text, that guantanamo detainees are somehow victims who deserve our sympathy. it's not about the christmas children. these are people who are suspected of terrorism, but there is no clear evidence against them. the resolution calls on the member states to prepare for the reception of guantanamo prisoners. well, this is problematic to say the least. the problem of radical islamic fundamentalism is already, in my view, a major problem in europe and it shows a certain short-sightedness to want to fight terrorism and at the same time open the doors to people suspected of having links with al-qaeda, the taliban and related groups.
in writing. i support the fava report, which will make it more difficult for employers to punish illegal workers. the fines will now have to include return costs and payment of unpaid wages, taxes and social security contributions. other sanctions range from exclusion of public subsidies to temporary or permanent closure. the first is that it sends a signal to unscrupulous and even criminal employers by introducing criminal sanctions for the most serious cases of exploitation of illegal labour, such as the employment of minors, particularly abusive working conditions or when the worker is a victim of human trafficking. secondly, the possibility of lighter provisions for individuals, if the conditions of private employment are correct. finally, the liability of the companies involved in the subcontracting chain, if it can be shown that they were aware of the subcontractor's employment of irregular workers. finally, let's not forget that these are minimum standards (each state is free to strengthen sanctions for employers and protections for illegal immigrants) and there is a clause for revision every 3 years, allowing us to adjust the shooting based on experience.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the european parliament has today adopted, by a large majority, the draft directive to punish employers of illegal immigrants. this 'sanctions' directive is part of the eu strategy ('blue card' for preferential immigration and 'return' directive) to combat illegal immigration. underground work is a scourge for the european economy, all the more so in the context of the current economic crisis. the eu still appears to be an eldorado to many illegal immigrants; they often find work and a quality of life that they do not have in their own country. the eu has between 4.5 and 8 million third-country nationals living illegally in the eu, generally in construction, agriculture, domestic work and the hotel industry. they are engaged in low-paid jobs, often at the edge of the farm. unscrupulous employers take advantage of this illegal workforce, willing to work for very low wages and in precarious conditions. thanks to today's vote, employing illegal workers could now cost employers dearly, or even land them in jail.
all those who have spoken are well, very well and particularly well acquainted with the situation in kosovo. it is therefore superfluous to go into it any further in great depth in an attempt to convince each other of how well we know the situation. first of all, let us rejoice that the first year of kosovo's independence has ended rather well, better than many had feared. i would also like to express my joy and satisfaction that the eulex mission has finally been able to get off to a good start, thanks to the goodwill of many and the expertise of the un security council. the success of this eulex mission will depend very much on the fact that kosovo was a protectorate for ten years before its independence. what is important now is that we all guide kosovo to its maturity.
the commissioner, the rescue of the european car industry is in danger of becoming an anti-european story. each member state will go its own way and launch national support measures. there are member states - you know better than we do - which provide cheap loans to car manufacturers on condition that they purchase components from their own national local suppliers. that is of course totally crazy and it is good that you made it very clear a few minutes ago that you do not tolerate that and that you are putting a stop to it. what the manufacturers need today - as malcolm harbour has said - is action today and investment support for the future for new environmentally friendly and hybrid cars. that is very good, but it does not solve today's problems. it is therefore very positive and a bright spot that the czech president is announcing here today a new initiative for the coming spring summit, a proposal to take a europe-wide measure to drastically stimulate the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. in addition - and i am entering an open door - there is a need for fresh credit and credit guarantees for the car manufacturers. the european investment bank has already released a lot of money, but much more money is needed to go through this deep valley. in many cases, these are smes in the supply sector, which today also need credit to survive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a window of opportunity to finally force a breakthrough in the area of the car tax. we have been fighting for years now over the european commission's proposal to adjust the car tax. the time has come for the whole european union to finally make a change and to finally convert the car tax into a system whereby consumers who choose environmentally friendly cars are also rewarded for it.
the automotive sector is a very important sector for employment in belgium. in and around opel antwerp belgium, 2700 direct jobs are at stake today. the decisions are made in detroit and all opel plants are struggling with overproduction. of course, the authorities concerned are ready to provide a package of state aid and bank guarantees. in order to ensure that this support is effective, i would ask the european commission today, through you, commissioner verheugen, and through your colleague mr kroes, to sit down with the authorities and establishments concerned before 17 february, the date of the decision in detroit, to ensure that employment is maintained at the highest possible level at european level and that there is a coordinated approach at european level. this is to avoid, as you yourself said, a protectionist race between member states.
i voted against the resolution on kosovo for two reasons. first of all, there is a passage which states that the member states which have not yet recognized kosovo's independence should do so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. it is up to the member states themselves to decide on this and there should be no external pressure on this, no pressure from the european commission, the council or parliament. the second reason why i voted against the resolution is because of the passage which states that kosovo must have a clear prospect of membership of the european union, as well as that of the region as a whole. i think it is wrong to make such promises from parliament. at the moment there are a lot of problems with enlargement, with a number of new member states too, and it would be completely wrong to make promises to countries like kosovo that they will ever join the european union.
i voted in favour of the epp group's amendment because it at least takes account of the fact that taiwan is an important economic and commercial entity and supports taiwan's participation as an observer in the relevant international organisations. in fact, this amendment is still far too restrictive. since taiwan is a democratic country with de facto national sovereignty, it is actually a shame that taiwan is not recognised as a full member state in all the various international institutions. the amendment refers to taiwan's participation as an observer in these institutions. i believe that taiwan should be able to participate as a full member of the community.
in writing. − the own-initiative report on the impact of epas on development cooperation contains some good aspects. it calls for more government support (after all, acp countries are the hardest hit by the financial crisis) and reiterates that epas are a development tool that should not disrupt regional integration in the south. i would like to say that i am in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the green group. it would be more logical for parliament to express its approval of the epas only after the respective parliaments of the acp countries concerned have taken their position. i also believe that the parliamentary body which oversees the epas should be the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and not a body to be set up separately. this will only lead to division and weaken the position of the countries of the south, which do not have the financial or human resources to attend all these meetings. moreover, a separate body is opaque and prevents a holistic approach to development-related issues.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday i saw pictures of rohingya refugees from burma. it's the human distress on these makeshift boats. after a brief detention, the thai navy drove them out of their territorial waters and left them destitute. and yet, thailand is willing to show hospitality to refugees and asylum seekers. moreover, thailand, as a direct neighbour of burma, is well aware of the inhuman living conditions created by the junta, which are driving many burmese to emigrate, risking their lives in what i would call death-crosses. we call on thailand and the other asean countries to find a lasting solution for the refugees, and especially the rohingya, who are the subject of today's debate. we would also like to call on thailand to ratify the 1951 un refugee convention and the 1967 protocol.
on behalf of the alde group today's debate on the basis of the three reports proves that, contrary to what many eurosympathisers and eurosceptics claim, european security and defence policy and european foreign policy are indeed gaining more and more shape and consistency. that has been amply demonstrated by the speakers before me. i would like to begin by thanking the three rapporteurs for the way in which they have taken account of the views of the liberal shadow rapporteurs in their report. we are happy to see many of our views reconfirmed. i am a little disappointed that the nato report by mr vatanen, who has gone out of his way to take account of as many points of view and approaches as possible, has been replaced at the very last moment by separate ppe and pse amendments, as if the stamp of these two groups had to be put on the report once again. we shall nevertheless approve it because we think - and i shall go on to that report - that the accents are just right and that the report also shows sufficient realism. for example, there is an acknowledgement, albeit an elegant one, that there is competition between the european union and nato. such a thing is usually flatly ignored, even though it is the reality. secondly, the amendment tabled by mr duff and myself was accepted, in which we clearly explain the difficulties caused by the respective positions of turkey, greece and cyprus in nato and the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european council also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to promote the development of a common defence policy. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is absolutely essential.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen,for years the european parliament has been advocating an extension of the list of goods and services to which an optional reduced rate of vat can be applied. the call for a reduced vat rate in the member states for, among other things, restaurant services, building renovations and minor repairs, such as shoe repairs, was growing. the reasons are threefold: the european harmonization of vat rates promotes transparency, promotes the proper functioning of the internal market and provides an incentive to combat undeclared work. moreover, we have the prospect of finally ending a period of successive experimental periods and of bringing legal certainty to a long-standing problem. in times of crisis, these measures can be a major stimulus for a number of sectors. i therefore support the van den burg report and look forward to a political agreement in the ecofin council on 10 march.
i voted against the catania report because i completely and totally disagree with the recent proposals put forward by the commission on asylum policy, which are welcomed by the rapporteur in this report. i am particularly afraid that the new directive, which will make it even easier for asylum seekers to enter the labour market and, moreover, will also provide them with a lot of pocket money, will create a similar suction effect as the collective regularizations of spain, the netherlands, belgium and italy at the time. the consequences were obviously disastrous. i would also like to remind you that according to recent figures, we still have more than 20 million unemployed in the european union, and now there are probably 25 million, so that to attract more asylum seekers is a kind of collective suicide. i also believe that all this should remain a strict competence of the member states.
i voted against the catania report, mr president, because it clearly shows a far-left bias which is aimed at making any effective asylum management system simply impossible. any abuse of existing systems in the member states is condoned and, where possible, regulated. just think of the tolerance of fake asylum seekers who abuse minors to get a residence permit, or the resistance to closed reception centres for people who do not meet the conditions to be recognised as refugees and who flee into illegality when they are released. everything seems to be done to make life easier for illegal immigrants and potential illegal immigrants. the rapporteur welcomes the court of justice's rejection of a list of safe countries, although such a list is essential to control the flow of refugees. the strategy of the left is therefore to overload the system to the point where any possible efficiency is impossible. this is not what the majority of europeans want, and we shall make it a prominent part of the election campaign.
i voted against this report, mr president, but it is good to see that illegal immigration and the fight against terrorism are being put forward as priorities and that this parliament is finally calling on the commission to keep a close eye on the spending of funds in kosovo and the balkans, bearing in mind the hasty enlargement to bulgaria and romania. but unfortunately, there are no consequences attached to it, and no conditions. my party is also calling for a stop to enlargement after croatia's accession - this aside. but back to the report. why has this parliament not even taken the trouble - as has just been mentioned - to advocate the abolition of some of those superfluous ngos and european agencies which are not subject to any democratic control, often interpret their powers too broadly and make no use of the money of the european taxpayer?
mr president, it is an excellent thing that this parliament is hammering on equal access to linguistic facilities for all members of this parliament. parliament must be truly multilingual in the future. it is true that the working conditions of outsourced workers must be in accordance with the language regulations. on the other hand, in the chapter on buildings, this parliament fails to make a clear statement on the monthly travelling circus to strasbourg, which costs some 200 million euros a year. this is not a good signal to the european citizens, to the taxpayers. that is one of the reasons why i voted against this report.
in writing. i support the report by jeanine hennis-plasschaert, which deals with the future of the european union's management of its external borders. the commission proposes three solutions to the problem of strengthening internal security while facilitating the movement of third-country nationals: registration of entry and exit, mainly to combat the phenomenon of overstaying; facilitating the crossing of frontiers for 'good faith' travellers; the commission has also proposed the introduction of an electronic system for travel registration, similar to that which has been in place in the united states since january this year. on this last point, i would stress the importance of the commission's prospective study in analysing the effectiveness, impact and practical feasibility of such a system: we must be able to objectively assess its usefulness and its real and not presumed added value. before setting up this massive system, two prerequisites should be noted: the acceleration of the implementation of sis ii to make biometric control of passports and visas possible, and the measurement of the impact of the system on the protection of personal data, in order to remain in the order of proportionality.
in writing. i support the report by giusto catania on the future of the common european asylum system. every political refugee has the right to enter the european union and, once recognised, to reside in the european union. at present, unfortunately, this right is not applied in the same way by the member states, since the recognition of this status may vary from one member state to another in the proportion of 0 to 90%! in order to achieve a high and uniform level of protection throughout the union, several elements should be able to be implemented rapidly, such as: the establishment of a single asylum application procedure and single standards for the conditions for claiming refugee status; the establishment of a legal and effective solidarity mechanism between member states: some countries are overwhelmed by applications, while others avoid them; the improvement of reception conditions for applicants, with particular attention to the situation of minors, and the limitation of the use of detention; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. this is the issue of the whole 'asylum package' which we have just begun to examine at the end of this parliament.
in writing. − in the eu, the number of refugees has increased in recent years to 12 million. in addition, there are 26 million internally displaced persons. a common european asylum policy is needed because there are too many differences in the asylum policies of the 27 eu member states. in practice, this leads to playing with people's futures, and that is unheard of. during the first phase (1999-2005), the eu sought to harmonise the member states' policy approaches on the basis of common minimum standards. in a second phase, work was carried out on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for persons granted asylum or subsidiary protection. the report we are adopting today welcomes the establishment of a european asylum agency but regrets the slow progress in implementing the second phase. the non-entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is of course a consequence of this. i support the call for improvement of the existing legislation both as regards the procedural directive, the directive laying down the conditions for admission and the directive granting or withdrawing refugee status. i support the report because it is important that there should be a standard of protection for refugees and that all member states should shoulder their responsibilities in solidarity and cooperate in a targeted manner.
in writing. - the operation of games of chance and betting is not an economic activity like any other, as some in this house believe. the european court of justice has confirmed in its case law that it is up to the member states to determine the level of protection they consider appropriate to protect their citizens from the dangers of gambling. subsidiarity means that member states should be able to control and regulate their gambling markets in accordance with their traditions and cultures, in order to protect consumers from the dangers of addiction, fraud and money laundering. given the additional risks associated with online gambling, i am convinced that national regulation cannot be replaced by pan-european self-regulation of the gambling industry. i therefore join the vast majority of my colleagues in imco who believe that the purely internal market approach to gambling does not apply. i therefore fully supported the schaldemose report.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, we are finishing a task we started ten years ago. i remember well the outrage over the erika accident in december 1999. the rapid proposals made by mrs de palacio at the time, the cooperation of the council - which, under pressure from public opinion, helped to ensure that we had the first two packages ready in june 2002, including my report on monitoring and a european policy for the monitoring of ships and for ports of escape. i also remember well our outrage in november 2002 - and it was also a meeting here in strasbourg - over the prestige disaster. then we said: why have we adopted all these measures when they can go so far wrong in their application? we as a parliament played our part then. i would remind you of a report by the mare temporary committee, chaired by mr georg jarzembowski, in which we made it clear that although the regulatory framework, both european and international, exists, we must ensure that those rules are also applied in practice and followed by the people on board ships, in ports, and wherever, in order to ensure the safest possible shipping. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission has responded to the questions put to it by the european parliament with seven proposals from jacques barrot. i think that was a good overall picture, and i would also like to thank commissioner tajani for the follow-up in this respect. i think that this is a good overall approach, and that existing rules are being improved and supplemented by two reports, one by gilles savary and one by emanuel jardim fernandes. so we've got a balanced package. a few words about my report on maritime surveillance. we have exchanges through an existing network called the safeseanet, where all member states talk to each other and exchange information. all ships must have ais, an automatic system that transmits information about ships entering european waters, allowing us to locate the risks. ais is also available for fishing vessels, thus also improving the safety of that fleet. we insist once again - and i think this is important - that the crew of ships should be treated fairly in the event of an accident and not be treated as criminals, which is wrong. we have also tightened up the arrangements for receiving ships in distress. we must have plans - we knew that - but there must also be an authority which not only shares in these plans but also takes care of their implementation. an expert authority which is competent, capable of independent decision-making and has a permanent character. so not one that needs to be called in for an accident, no, one that is. commissioner, we are still waiting for a scheme to compensate for damage to airports, but i am counting on you to come forward with a proposal in due course. so we've been working on this for ten years. this time without the pressure of a disaster. i would like to thank both the slovenian and the french presidencies, as mrs vlasto has already done. i think that without them no decision would have been possible, but above all i would like to say that we as the european parliament have been very firm and have expressed our views on a great many points with great unanimity. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked with me, the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs and all the others. my thoughts today go out to a man who is no longer with us but who played a huge role in the creation of this package, and that is willi piecyk. i would like to thank him for that posthumously. we cannot, ladies and gentlemen, issue a directive prohibiting accidents. we cannot issue a directive saying that there will be no more storms at sea. but i think we have done everything that we could do politically at this time to improve safety at sea.
- i'm the reporter. - the president. - i repeat that there is unanimity in this house. the overwhelming majority is in favour of the content of the package, of the compromise we have reached. i think that is a sign to everyone involved that this is not an ideological conflict, but a practical arrangement to improve safety at sea. i also thank the commissioner for the answer he gave to my question concerning the uncertainty about the agency and its role. we may have forgotten, but the agency is one of the components of the first erika package. the agency was one of the first proposals, an agency that brings together the necessary knowhow, the necessary specialists to ensure that we, especially the commission, but also parliament, are supported in what we do, in the development of regulation. now, i am pleased with the consensus, i am also proud of what we have achieved, but i think, commissioner, as you and mrs vlasto have said, that everything depends now on the quality of the transposition. the point is that, for example, when it comes to the reception of ships in distress, we have authorities in all the member states who provide good quality. if that quality is lacking, you must act. the role now lies with you, with the commission, with the commission services, with the agency, to ensure that both for port state controls and for classification societies, for safeseanet and for all the things we are now developing or improving, that the member states also do what they have put into the legislation. commissioner, we will be following you closely, so if you are still transport commissioner in the next commission, we will continue to follow you closely to ensure that the quality is as we intended. so, good courage! we will keep an eye on you and, if necessary, support you again with new proposals.
- i'm the reporter. - president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i should like to open the door immediately and put some misunderstandings to rest. i read here and there that with this eurovignette directive we want to give the road transport sector a death blow in these economically difficult times. i also read that we would like to make it compulsory for all passenger cars in europe to pay for their own transport. the truth is, of course, that we do not want to impose anything, but on the contrary, we want to offer a wide range of possibilities to member states who wish to do so, and when they wish to do so, to start with the 'polluter pays' principle in the road transport sector. so we want to create a framework, set rules of the game, which member states must abide by if they wish to internalise these external costs. this should bring us a step closer to a more sustainable transport system. i would add at once that this is not a miracle cure. we will have to take a lot of other measures to get there. but, and the commission knows this very well, if we do nothing, road transport will increase by 55% by 2020. so we're gonna have to do something. what we are proposing here is a very small revolution in itself, if i may say so, but it is still a beginning, which must be followed by an ambitious follow-up in a few years' time. with the majority in the committee on transport we have succeeded in drawing up a balanced, reasonable and coherent proposal. and i want to thank everyone who's been involved. it wasn't easy. the positions were very different, but i also hope that we will maintain that balance after tomorrow and thus send a strong signal to the council, which has yet to formulate a common position. what are the essential points? first, what externalities are we bringing into the system? we've chosen to deal with air pollution, noise and congestion. in the latter respect, we have actually made a concession to the road transport sector by suggesting that there should be a link with passenger cars for those countries which want to integrate congestion into their system. it's not an obligation, it's an option. second, the ear tag. we do not regard the revenue from these levies as an additional tax which should simply flow into the state's coffers. it should be a levy, the proceeds of which are reinvested in the transport system with the aim of reducing external costs. that must be the absolute objective. thirdly, interoperability. it is absolutely important, and i think the commission has some work to do in this area. we want to avoid having in the future trucks with 27 different boxes to pay tolls in europe. so i think that there must be clear initiatives to avoid that. fourthly, there must also be a perspective for new steps in the future. the internalization of external costs in all modes of transport should be reviewed within a few years. we should consider adding other external costs, if necessary, but we should also move towards more systems of mileage charging at the expense of time-based systems. the impact of all this is actually already limited. we estimate that operational costs could increase by 3% if this directive were applied on the ground throughout europe. i would therefore suggest to my colleagues that we stick to the package we supported in the committee on transport. in other words, i do not support the ppe amendments which seek to remove congestion. the amendments tabled by the greens - however sympathetic i find them - i cannot support either. let us keep the whole thing coherent and take it a step further.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i agree with georg jarzembowski that mobility is essential for society. i also agree with corien wortmann-kool when she says that the single market is something that we must keep in mind especially in this case. i think, however, that the compromise is a step in that direction every time. the single market is important. it is therefore also important that agreements be made between member states, and this is a first step in a system which we will have to rethink in its entirety at some point and adapt at some point. our group supports by a large majority the compromise we have reached with the rapporteur, and for which i thank him. internalisation of external costs - and i listened carefully to what the rapporteur said - is not a simple tax. the revenue from what comes in must be used to ensure that the external costs go down. that is an essential part of parliament's position. if not, there is no compromise. we therefore agree that air pollution, noise and congestion are included where the external costs should be internalised. but what congestion means is that if you want to fight congestion and if you want to reduce congestion, you also treat all those that cause congestion in the same way, and you don't discriminate between different elements that cause congestion. so i also think it is a good thing that a member state should present an action plan and say how it is going to reduce congestion. on the whole - the rapporteur has also pointed out that it is an essential element - earmarking is important. there is no debate in parliament that earmarking, the use of the proceeds, is very important. i would say to mrs wortmann-kool that if those two conditions - equal treatment of all those who cause congestion and a clear earmarking of the revenue from that levy - are not met, and if the council does not accept that, then the alde group will not support the compromise.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, during the debate a great many different positions emerged, sometimes in conflict with one another, not only because they are linked to political positions but also to national positions. so all this debate highlights the difficulty of the problem, but also the importance of the problem. i think that a compromise must be found and what we are finding in parliament, with the el khadraoui report, is overall a good compromise. i do not think that the commission wanted to impose an additional tax or to penalize the countries to the west and east, the peripheral countries. that is because the eurovignette is not compulsory. we have tried to harmonize a system to set a framework to prevent tariff abuses, so that maximum values are also set. but these are, of course, different positions, different ideas, that are emerging in this debate. i think that the text which will go to the council will certainly be modified, because there is no consensus even within the council. we all agree on the principle that 'the polluter pays', but when it comes to practical applications, differences emerge between member states, between political forces, between parliamentarians, between the commission, parliament and the council. so, the subject is certainly thorny, complicated. i do not think, however, that the critical option, which focuses on negative remarks about the existence of a crisis, is worthwhile. it is true that we are facing a crisis, but it is also true that the proposal refers to the application of the directive from 2012. i hope and i am absolutely convinced that in 2012 the crisis will be finally overcome. a little optimism is needed, but even the most pessimistic do not believe that 2012 will be a year in which we will still be in crisis. that said, i believe that the council will make some changes, so the first reading will not be enough and we will therefore have time in the coming months to check the changes that will have to be made to try to find a good agreement in conciliation, which will allow concrete answers to be given to the citizens and will be able to apply, as best as possible, in an optional manner, the 'polluter pays' principle from 2012 onwards.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i have a few remarks to make. first of all, i would ask the honourable members not to be fooled by the frightening figures that are being put forward here and there. i refer, for example, to mrs wortmann-kool - with all due respect - who is talking about extra costs of several euros. that's not true at all. i can tell you in pennies what the impact might be in the most extreme case: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road transport sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. sound would add 1.1 cents. air pollution would then be an additional 16 cents for the most polluting trucks. if you add all that up, you get a maximum maximum of 82 cents for the few kilometers where congestion is. for the rest of the trip, you have to deduct that 65 cents. that is the first thing i would like to say, also to the people from the peripheral member states. secondly, we are indeed in a crisis, but the crisis will not last indefinitely. what we are doing here is creating a framework which, after a national debate, should enable member states, when they wish and usually after years of preparation, to actually set up a system of internalising external costs. thirdly, i note that quite a few members want to anticipate what the council is going to decide, because the council has not yet taken a position. we have absolutely nothing to fear from that. let's just go for a position that we're behind 100%. after that we will have the debate, the fight with the council. i can assure you that as rapporteur i will do my best to get parliament's views - if not all of them, then most of them - and we shall talk about that later.
i voted against the kovács report, mr president, because the whole report is steeped in victim-thinking and because i believe that a minority group, such as the roma, would actually benefit much more from a strategy of empowerment. i too, of course, believe that roma should be treated fairly, as everyone else does, but the majority of the problems mentioned in this report have to do with a lifestyle, a way of life that these people have chosen for themselves. and then we can adopt as many reports and resolutions and give as much money as we want, on the ground it will not change the situation at all.
mr president, i have seen a lot of politically correct nonsense in this parliament in all the years i have been here, which was usually passed by very large majorities, but this report really beats everything in my view. if this parliament is going to intervene per se in the social situation of the roma and their access to the labour market, is it really too much to ask for a minimum of objectivity? the truth is that the problems of the roma population are for the most part the simple result of their own refusal to adapt to the society in which they live, especially in terms of education, especially in terms of vocational training. for decades we have been pouring millions of euros into all kinds of programmes full of idyllic, but above all unrealistic nonsense in the spirit of this report. with no result. is it not time to stop pampering and to look for the real causes of the problems before proposing solutions?
i have abstained on the resolution on the lisbon strategy, although overall the resolution is a very balanced one, which makes a good diagnosis of the situation and also contains many proposals which i can fully support. but i abstained because the famous blue cards of economic immigration are being mentioned again and are being explicitly supported, at a time when we have more than 20 million unemployed in the european union and unemployment is set to increase further as a result of the economic crisis. it is precisely at such a time that we must stop resorting to easier short-term solutions such as bringing in yet another mass influx of economic immigrants, and instead invest in training and retraining the existing unemployed, rather than simply abandoning them in favour of mass new immigration.
mr president, this resolution too is full of good intentions, but one must ask oneself whether such resolutions are not putting a single speck of soil in the ditch. for example, i cannot understand how a resolution on employment, which is a european competence - and i do not think it is - can ignore very important questions such as: how many unemployed people are there in the european union at the moment? 20 million more? or are we already on our way - more likely - to 25 million? question: is the commission still holding on to its insane option of attracting more than 20 million new foreigners to the european union? question: will the commission finally give up its recruitment centres in countries like mali or senegal in order to import even more unemployment? we should have expected such questions in the resolution instead of the empty catalogue of good intentions that has unfortunately become.
in writing. - the proposal we voted on today is a revision and extension of the previous eurovignette directive and concerns the rules for charging tolls on european roads. the proposals adopted now allow member states to pass on the costs of air pollution, noise and congestion to lorries. this is good news for the taxpayer. now we're all paying for the damage caused by air pollution. it's the polluter who pays. in addition, we are encouraging transport companies to invest in cleaner trucks. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal, all the more so as the congestion charge was also included as an additional external cost for mountain regions. files are a major contributor to air pollution, noise pollution and fuel waste. if we can use the proceeds of this levy to invest in rail and water transport, we will solve both the traffic problem and climate change. in addition, delays caused by traffic jams cause considerable economic damage to the transport sector. unfortunately, the climate costs of heavy freight traffic were not included, even though the transport sector is responsible for a large proportion of emissions.
in writing. − the 2001 regulation certainly brought greater openness to the public by granting public access to documents of the european institutions. it is right that we should review this regulation after seven years of practical experience. what's the status? the ep already put forward a number of proposals in 2006 to amend the regulation. what's the target? improve the transparency. but the commission did not take that into account. moreover, the commission's proposal to revise the 2001 regulation, which is now on the table, means a narrowing of the scope of the regulation, and therefore less transparency. for example, documents relating to trade negotiations are considered confidential. in the end, it's a choice between plague and cholera. i therefore vote for the cashman report because, although incomplete, it is an improvement on the commission proposal before us. however, a more radical approach, with a total rejection of the commission's proposals, would have been even better, because then the commission would have been forced to come up with a new and better proposal. this would only serve to increase the transparency of the european institutions and to close the notorious gap between the eu institutions and the citizens.
in writing. − the roma community is the largest and most disadvantaged minority group in europe. those who follow the situation closely know that a coordinated approach is needed to improve their working and living conditions. i am glad that the report before us calls for tailored training to increase the opportunities of the roma on the labour market. in addition, human and social capital must be strengthened by working from the outset to integrate them into european society. it is good that a european expert group is being set up, with representatives of the roma community. the proposal to develop partnerships and to provide sufficient financial resources and to monitor all this through a database are also very good proposals. i support this report because it shows how we can improve the situation of the roma community. the alternative resolution proposed by the pse group is unfortunately too weak. so i will not support this one.
in writing. the commission published a package of communications on 'greening transport', a 'strategy for internalising external costs' and 'measures to reduce noise from goods equipment'. i am very pleased that green transport measures are being developed and i encourage this. the jarzembowski report would, however, weaken the commission's proposals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway. our amendments were not accepted, however, and this report does not add any value to the commission's proposals. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - as greens, we believe that what we are experiencing is a confluence of three interrelated crises: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the greens/efa group therefore opposes the promotion of a 'european recovery plan', in the light of the forthcoming spring european summit, which consists only in the revival of the old laissez-faire model. the pumping of huge sums into that model carries a serious risk of deepening the ecological and social crises. it is counterproductive to simply stimulate demand in order to bring production back up to par. this is precisely what the ferrera report proposes and that is why i voted against it. the economic recovery plan should allow for new financial instruments and at the same time, through regulation, rapidly restore the stability and reliability of the system. the incentive to use certain bonuses for short-term profit must be removed and rules for so-called leverage funds and private equity funds are necessary. transparency, open accounting and supervision must make tax havens impossible. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. - i listened carefully to the interventions of the rapporteurs and the group chairmen, including the statement by the pse group chairman against the ppe-de group's voting behaviour on amendment no 92. we do not agree with the scope of that amendment and i, together with my colleagues in the group of the european people's party, strongly opposed it. we cannot be expected to take short-term measures which undermine the long-term objectives. it is therefore not justified to impose a budgetary effort on member states irrespective of their debt level, which is an important factor in determining the extent to which 'deficit spending' can be justified. my group has rightly followed the commission's line, which is that we must also think of future generations. it is therefore appropriate to modulate the budgetary incentives according to the level of debt of the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
if there is one positive result of the negotiations with turkey, mr president, it is the perfecting of the art of euphemism in the commission and the council. the way in which the problems in turkey are being minimized is beginning to be impressive. it is even to the point of being derided in turkey from time to time. the list of problems is so long that it is incomprehensible that the negotiations are still going on. however, the commission had promised that the negotiation process would be in line with the reform process in turkey. there is nothing left of that promise, for new chapters are being opened. the balance sheet of more than three years of negotiations is certainly dismal. so let's pull the plug. turkey is not a european country and therefore does not belong to the european union, but let us instead develop a relationship of privileged partnership with turkey.
i was one of the members who voted in favour of opening negotiations with turkey, and i believe that these negotiations are an exercise in conflict prevention. i am convinced that the negotiations are having a positive impact on many policy areas. they are creating a better social climate in turkey itself, better environmental and health legislation and better labour legislation for turkish people. the negotiations also lead to better living conditions for many groups of the population in the long term: women, religious minorities, kurds and alevis. but it's going too slow. there has been a four-year break, and the pain points that need to be addressed are many. the discrimination of parties like the kurdish dtp is not acceptable. there is a lack of civil and political control over the operation of the army, and that simply cannot be done. freedom of expression and freedom of the press are essential and torture and ill-treatment in prisons cannot be tolerated. and a political solution to the kurdish question is also an absolute necessity. i think that in these circumstances we should proceed with the negotiations without any doubt.
the european union has also been involved in the negotiations for the establishment of the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, which is a body of international law, and has been involved in the preparation of the international criminal law treaty. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the accession of the new member states to the european union. the un security council has called on the tribunal to complete its work by the end of 2010 at the latest, but has not set an absolute deadline for that date. after an understandably difficult start - everything was new and had to be invented on the spot, so to speak - the court of first instance has developed into a very solid, serious and competent judicial body which does not limit its activities to the administration of justice. the court of first instance has also acted with the greatest care, which has strengthened its legitimacy. the tribunal has also set up outreach programmes to help the process of healing and reconciliation in the countries emerging from the break-up of the former yugoslavia. the court also contributes to the formation of national judicial bodies, which are responsible for handling the bulk of cases concerning war crimes and crimes against humanity. it was never intended that the tribunal should replace national courts throughout the former yugoslavia and forever. on the contrary, it is the countries themselves who must ensure that war crimes and crimes against humanity are prosecuted and brought to justice. to this end, the court of first instance referred a number of cases to national courts and concentrated on the most important cases. the tribunal also developed a three-stage strategy for the completion of the security council's work. that plan envisages a full settlement of all the cases by the end of 2011 with perhaps a small spillover in 2012. in order to anticipate all contingencies, but above all to ensure that mladic and hadzic will in any event be subject to the same process, it is necessary to provide for an efficient, highly qualified and sufficiently equipped mechanism that can carry out all remaining tasks, also after the end of the mandate of the general court. for all these reasons, we ask the council to urge the united nations, and in particular the security council, to extend the mandate of the tribunal for at least two years, to provide for a reception mechanism after that period and to ensure that the tribunal's archives are preserved and made accessible. in the same, but somewhat broader context, we ask that good cooperation with the tribunal and the development of an efficient judiciary, which also deals with crimes against humanity, remain criteria for assessing our relations with the countries of the western balkans. we urge the countries concerned to continue to cooperate fully with the tribunal and to provide adequate answers to the prosecutor. finally, we call on the commission to continue to pay attention to training programmes and other initiatives aimed at mutual dialogue, the joint search for truth and reconciliation. because, ladies and gentlemen, the judiciary alone - however good - does not yet lead to reconciliation, and that is very necessary if the men and women of the western balkans are to be able to build their future.
madam president, the european union applies the principle of equal treatment to all the balkan countries. while we insist that belgrade hand over mladic before it can implement the interim trade agreement under the association and stabilisation agreement, we are also clearly asking for full cooperation from croatia with the court. but this cooperation, to say the least, still leaves something to be desired. during the last visit of prosecutor brammertz to zagreb in february, where he went to claim the missing documents on the use of artillery in operation storm, which, for the record, resulted in the exodus of 200,000 serbs and the death of 350 civilians, the prosecutor demanded full cooperation from croatia, and although the european commission has just given the green light to the opening of chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights, some european governments are not hearing it from this ear, and neither is the european parliament. there will be no accession for us in the balkans without a guarantee of peace, and the best guarantee is truth and justice for the crimes of the past. i would like to congratulate mrs neyts-uyttebroeck on her report, which was unanimously adopted in the foreign affairs committee.
rapporteure. − madam president, i wish to thank everybody who contributed to this debate. i also wanted to say that i have found with everybody who works or has worked at the icty a degree of dedication and commitment which i have seldom seen elsewhere. that has been a great pleasure. that was all the more reason to come forward with these proposals.
president-in-office of the council. − first of all, i understand how these issues are very important during the election campaign because everybody cares about this road safety problem. i think we have to be aware of one thing, that the governments and the european council in particular cannot be responsible for every single life on our roads. it is also and primarily the responsibility of the drivers behind the wheel. but of course we need to focus on this issue and, again, for us it is among the priorities, so we need to move this discussion ahead. that is why we have selected this as one of the key items on the agenda of the informal transport ministers’ meeting at the end of april and certainly i will tell my colleague in my government, our minister of transport, how important this issue is for you, too. the main topic of this informal meeting is the deployment of the intelligent transport system (its), in the eu. road safety and security are certainly one of the six priority action areas which were identified by the commission in this its action plan. we want to move the debate forward.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very pleased to have been invited to make a statement to parliament on the green paper on the eu workforce for health, adopted by the commission on 10 december 2008. that invitation comes at an opportune moment, as we are now approaching the end of the consultation phase, which will be closed at the end of this month. it is clear that there are growing pressures on all eu health systems arising from an ageing population, health threats as well as the rising cost of new technologies and patients’ increased expectations – and all this against the background of a difficult economic situation. without a well-trained and motivated health workforce throughout the eu, the financial sustainability of european health systems will be threatened and health inequalities will increase. as the european population gets older, so does its health workforce, and there are insufficient new recruits coming through to replace those who leave. we need to reflect on the reasons why young people are not motivated to become health workers. this, coupled with the mobility of health professionals within and between member states is creating common health workforce problems for most european health systems. i expect a large number of responses to the green paper from the many stakeholder organisations in the field of health that have expressed concerns about this important issue. i also look forward to receiving contributions from the members of this parliament. those will really facilitate our work and serve our common objective. the analysis of the answers we receive will guide us in developing strategies at eu level to support the member states in tackling these challenges. the health workforce debate is distinct from the issues covered by the draft directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care. indeed, that proposal focuses on the rules and arrangements needed to provide access, in equitable conditions, to safe and high quality health care for patients moving across europe. the primary aim of the draft legislation is to enforce, in a fair and consistent manner, patients’ rights as recognised by the european court of justice. it does not seek to regulate cross-border provision of health services, freedom of establishment or the mobility of health professionals. however, that does not mean that the draft directive ignores safety and quality of care for patients seeking health care abroad – which is intrinsically related to the context in which health care is provided by health professionals. in this respect, the draft directive sets out very clearly an essential rule, which is that, as regards cross-border health care, the rules of the country of treatment apply. let me also briefly mention other provisions, such as those in article 5 of the proposal: member states would commit to defining national quality and safety standards, to implementing them effectively and to making them public; health-care providers would provide all the relevant information to enable patients to make an informed choice – including details of their insurance cover or other means of personal or collective protection with regard to professional liability, which must be in place in all member states, patients would have a means of making complaints and of receiving remedies and compensation when they suffer harm arising from the health care they receive. with this set of principles and rules, i believe that the draft directive defines a clear relationship between the patient and the provider to ensure sound information as well as safe and quality care for european citizens who decide to travel to another member state for treatment. let me also recall that, under the primary responsibility of my colleague commissioner mccreevy, there is another important piece of eu legislation which regulates mutual recognition of qualifications for doctors, nurses, dentists, midwives and pharmacists. i refer to directive 2005/36/ec, which is now in force. that directive also provides for specific obligations for member states as regards the exchange of information in the case of movement of health professionals. those flows of data are facilitated by the use of the internal market information (imi) system, which already allows for the electronic exchange of information on the five main health professions. furthermore, an extension of imi to all regulated professions is envisaged. to conclude, tackling the challenges of the eu health workforce whilst ensuring financial sustainability of health systems will be one of the major tasks over the next decade for europe. this requires a comprehensive policy approach, as no member state can realistically find its own solution in isolation. the solution cannot simply be to attract health workers from developing countries, where the shortage is even greater. to that effect, the green paper will allow for discussion and further definition of the issues at stake, leading to the design of common actions, where appropriate. i know that your expectations are high, and i count on your help in building solutions to support the invaluable contribution that health professionals make to the lives of each and every one of us.
i would like to congratulate the commissioner on her green paper. i think that green paper is not a day, not an hour early. the commissioner himself said that the increasing ageing of the population will indeed increase the pressure on health systems, but above all on workers. and whoever listens to people who work in this sector knows that the general working conditions are very difficult: physically and often also psychologically. working in this sector requires a lot of effort on the part of the workers and is often underpaid. it is therefore no surprise that the work flow is very high. it is also clear that too often these are very precarious contracts, with the result that many leave the sector prematurely. i therefore believe that the union should pursue a number of objectives in its policy: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. decent work. the commissioner has rightly referred to the directive that john bowis is working on, the crossborder healthcare directive. but in my contacts with people in the sector i was also informed of the link between working as a health worker and the working time directive. the working time directive now works by contract, but not by person, to determine the duration. i have heard that there are polish doctors who work on a regular contract in a polish hospital during the week and fly to the uk during the weekend to work a 48-hour shift. this is unheard of, of course. this is something that should be taken into account, also in the working time directive. i hope that this subject will also be discussed in the green paper.
member of the commission. − madam president, nobody can underestimate the importance of water and the need to manage our water sources well. but, as i said in my introductory remarks, we also need to assist the poorer parts of the world in gaining access to clean drinking water. the commission will continue to assist these countries. water is a primary human need, as was recognised and reaffirmed during the fourth water forum in mexico in 2006. of course, as i said before, the eu will be represented and will put forward a strong case on all the points i have made at the forthcoming forum in istanbul. mr bowis referred to another very important question – and i agree with him – namely that, because of climate change, we see other parts of the world being flooded with water. we really have to take action about that. as he said very clearly, forestation is one of the solutions to the problem.
- a writer. - president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, africa is the only continent which has not made significant progress on the millennium development goals, particularly in the field of health, and in particular maternal and child mortality, the fight against hiv/aids, tuberculosis and malaria. this is all due to their weak health systems and the human resources crisis in that sector. so clearly, investing in health systems is essential in the fight against poverty. that is also the view of the commission, but according to the court of auditors' report, the commission has been able to claim that for years, but in practice it has done very little. the commission is making efforts, especially through vertical funds, to combat aids, and we think this is perhaps necessary, but it must not be at the expense of the overall package of investment in basic health care. commissioner, the budget for primary health care has not even increased proportionally since 2000 in the context of the entire official development aid package. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i got four points. first of all, increase the health budget. this clearly requires a joint initiative by the eu and the partner countries. the developing countries have committed themselves to invest 15% of their budget under the abuja declaration. but that cannot be achieved, commissioner, if the commission and europe spend only 5.5% of the european development fund on this. i would therefore like to know from you how the commission intends to ensure that investment in health is increased under the 10th edf. secondly, improved and efficient use of budget support. that is a flagship of the commission, but it receives very few good points in the court of auditors' report. budget support, however, has great potential to address the shortcomings of southern health care. sectoral budget support can really target health systems, but is hardly used in sub-saharan africa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. my question to the commission: how will you ensure that much better and more result-oriented action is taken, both through sectoral support and general budget support? the mdg contracts are one of the commission's promising instruments. i am 100% in favour of this, but frankly this is a bit too little, too short of the mark, because these are only for the good students, and so alternatives are absolutely desirable for the others. thirdly: increase in expertise. the report also finds that the commission does not have sufficient expertise to implement its health policy proposals. we therefore ask the commission to ensure that expertise by including more health experts and also to work more closely with the who and with the member states. fourthly: better coordination within healthcare. commissioner, it is absolutely essential that the european code of conduct on the division of labour is really put into practice and that the investment and health programmes between the different countries of the european union are really better coordinated. and that the so-called orphans among the countries in need of help should also be able to secure health care. finally, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank my colleague bart staes, who, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, supports our concerns in the committee on development and asks the commission to clarify its plans for the discharge procedure, preferably before the end of 2009. it is clear, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that this parliament is urging the commission to finally put its policy priorities into practice with greater conviction and with better instruments. this is more than necessary if we are to have a chance of meeting the mdgs by 2015, because, commissioner, basic health care deserves long-term sustainable investment.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission really welcomes the european court of auditors’ special report on ec support to health services in africa. the debate on this oral question gives us an opportunity to discuss our health support to africa with you, the european parliament. i am not going to repeat here the formal reaction the commission has already made regarding the court of auditors’ special report, which has already been published on the internet. unfortunately this report has not received wide coverage in the press and, when it was mentioned, things were sometimes oversimplified by saying that ‘europe has not kept its promises in africa’. let me therefore just clarify a few essential points before we enter into the debate. the commission remains fully committed to supporting the millennium development goals, the health-related goals 4, 5 and 6 being an integral part of these goals: reduction of child mortality by two thirds, reduction of maternal mortality by three quarters, and halting and reversing the spread of hiv/aids. this is what our development cooperation stands for, but our commitment must not be measured by budgetary allocations to the health sector alone. doubtless, child mortality will be reduced by effective health service interventions, vaccinations in particular. therefore we monitor vaccination coverage not only in our health programmes, but also in many of our general budget support operations. however, child mortality also depends on other factors such as nutrition, housing, access to safe water, sanitation and education. therefore our contribution can and will frequently be outside the health-care sector itself. when deciding on sectoral allocations and modalities of our development assistance, we agreed in paris and accra to increasingly respect basic principles of aid effectiveness. here are just two examples. the first is leadership by partner governments. this means, after an in-depth discussion with the partner country, accepting the sectors proposed for support. it might not be the health sector but education or water and sanitation. second: alignment on national systems. this means channelling our aid, preferably as budget support (provided that the basic criteria are fulfilled). if the country has a sufficiently well formulated poverty strategy, our support may preferably be channelled as general budget support. although this support will then not be earmarked as health sector support, it is linked to targets for health, such as vaccination coverage rates or proportions of births assisted by skilled health personnel. such targets are usually part of the poverty strategy and are monitored, and budget support disbursement is often linked to progress on them. in addition to the global commitments on aid effectiveness made in accra and paris, we, the european union, have collectively agreed on a code of conduct that foresees, for example, a reduction in the number of sectors in which each and every donor is active, in order to reduce the administrative and managerial burden on our partner countries through the multiplicity of donors. this is the meaning of the division of labour approach that eu member states and the european commission have agreed upon. we know that it will not always be easy to agree on this at the country level, particularly as health scores high in public opinion, and all donors and donor countries want to be present and to be seen. we will at times have to resist such a tendency and leave it to the other donors to do the job. i therefore hope that our debate today will contribute to further clarifying these issues and to helping ensure that europe fulfils its promises to africa.
the court of auditors' report will not be formally presented to the committee on budgetary control until next week. so i congratulate the committee on development and i congratulate mrs anne van lancker, who has made it possible for this debate to take place today and for us to adopt a resolution tomorrow setting out in great detail what is wrong. let us listen carefully to mrs van lancker's speech, to the recommendations she made in her long speech. let us listen carefully, commissioner, to the speech by mr bowis, who has explained very well what is lacking. the court of auditors' report is not something that can be read and discussed. the figures are there, and mrs van lancker was right to say that the millennium development goals in this sector will not be met, or at least will be very difficult to achieve. look at the figures the court of auditors gives country by country and you are put on the spot. aids prevalence, 34% of the population is affected in swaziland, 23% in lesotho, 14% in malawi. the infant mortality rate in swaziland was 78 per 1000 in 1997, now it is 86 per 1000. in lesotho, life expectancy was 60 years in the mid-1990s, now it's 41. in kenya, more than 1 in 10 children die before they are five years old. the recommendation, the court's analysis of the efficiency of eu policy in recent years, is painfully disturbing. i therefore hope, commissioner, that you will succeed in answering the questions which i, as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, have asked to be included in this resolution before 10 april, so that we can take those answers into account in the discharge procedure which will be completed at the end of april.
president, i am in principle in favour of croatia's accession to the european union, but i did not vote for this report. i abstained because there are still a number of problems in croatia, such as the problem of corruption. now, experience has shown that corruption has increased in a number of countries which have joined the european union but were not quite ready for it. the problem with this report is that it mentions that the negotiations might be concluded in 2009, that is, this year, when i do not think it is wise to fix a date and that croatia should be allowed to join when it is fully ready. that is not the case at the moment.
i abstained on the vote on the report on turkey because i believe that while the report contains a whole list of criticisms of a number of serious abuses still occurring in turkey, the only possible conclusion of this report should have been that the negotiations should be stopped, and that is for good, because after three years there is still no significant improvement in the situation in turkey. i believe that the european union must remain a european project and that therefore a country like turkey, which is not a european country, should have no place in it. yesterday a colleague from the socialist group said that he would never accept further islamization of turkey, and i hope that he and his group will also oppose the islamization of europe, but i have very little illusions about this.
i voted against the meijer report, mr president, because i and my party believe that after the accession of croatia there should be an indefinite suspension of enlargement. the european citizens do not want to hear of any further enlargements in the short or medium term, certainly not of enlargement to turkey, of course. but it is time for this parliament to listen to those who are supposed to represent it. i am therefore opposed to the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which this parliament is calling for, and to the granting of a european perspective to the entire western balkans. certain of these countries or entities are thoroughly islamic and, in my view, should not be allowed to join the european union.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). the report itself is broadly balanced, but what i do not think is in the interest of europe and what will also raise a number of questions in the public is the provision in the report calling for a common agreement on immigration policy. this does not bode well, and that is why i abstained on the vote on this report.
mr president, of course i voted in favour of this resolution, although we should not think that this innocent resolution will make much of an impression on the totalitarian communist regime in china, with which we all like to do business. this regime would be more impressed if this parliament and the council had the courage to say that the occupation and subsequent annexation of tibet is contrary to international law and cannot therefore be recognised as such by the european union. we must insist here that tibet should become an independent state and not an autonomous province of china, and that genocide and ethnic cleansing have been and are being committed in tibet in the past and in the present.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on the interim epa with côte d’ivoire, i would like to thank our colleague erika mann for having taking into consideration some of the concerns raised in that committee, such as the urgent need for a democratically elected government in côte d’ivoire and the necessity for that country to receive an appropriate share of eu trade-related assistance. more generally, i am pleased that both the committee on international trade and the committee on development came to a compromise on the scrutiny body that would enable the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) to play the role it deserves to play in the first place. it is important that we bear in mind that this epa is a stepping stone agreement, which means that it is only a temporary solution. in order for trade liberation to have a substantial positive effect on the whole region, it is essential that ecowas sign a full epa. within this context, the committee on development proposes that parliament give its assent, subject to ratification by the côte d'ivoire of the stepping stone epa.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i had a note prepared, i shall leave it aside, i shall speak to you without a note, you will excuse me, but a great deal has been said, and i do not wish to repeat what my colleagues have said. we are on the eve of an important, extremely important, almost historic vote, since we are going to vote this week on the first economic partnership agreements in this parliament. we have been discussing this for many years and there has been a lot of debate, often very heated, between us, and agreement has not always been on the agenda, nor has consensus. of course, we can welcome the change in the situation today. the speeches you have made, and the presidency, show that there has been a very positive development, especially since your arrival, madam commissioner, and it must be admitted, in this matter. unfortunately, for some of us there is still, and that is why i am speaking to you about hesitation, a number of questions and a number of questions and fears in relation to these economic partnership agreements. first of all, let us note that there is only one comprehensive economic partnership agreement today. the others are not here, we are at the stage of interim agreements whereas the basic approach was regional integration. there is only one that meets this criterion, and again, one of the main countries in this region of the caribbean, haiti, is not a signatory to the agreement, which is still revealing a lot. secondly, we have - and you have mentioned it - historical relations in the commercial field. we've been trading between the north and the south for a long time, but look how it's going! we're looting everything there is, taking all the wealth. of course we sell coltan that our companies have been extracting in kivu to sell to the north, but look at the disasters for the people in the south, and the unequal distribution, to say the least, is there. to this you add a development policy which we have pursued for 40 years, saying that we europeans are the world's largest donor, but which is a policy which is failing today and which must be questioned. most of the poorest countries in the world are doing badly, as badly as they were forty years ago, if not worse. so that is our hesitation and that is our question. what guarantees can we have in this regard? i will not repeat what my colleague, mr kader arif, has said, but i join him in saying that we would like to have a statement from you on behalf of the commission on a number of points which he has specifically mentioned, and i would like to end by speaking about the national parliaments. we are being asked as members of the european parliament to give our opinion on economic partnership agreements whose consequences, if badly negotiated, will be tragic for the peoples of the south, not for us. there is no european citizen who will be worse off if the economic partnership agreements fail. on the other hand, there are citizens of the south who are likely to be worse off. i would simply like to say to you, commissioner, that we would like the national parliaments of the partner countries to have a say in this matter, since they represent the peoples of the south and not just us.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, we have been welcoming the development of this new process, this new commitment, between the european union and africa for a year. i would like to ask the commissioner to allow me to take a little more than my usual reserve. i think that on this first anniversary a number of things should be noted. there's a lack of everything. we are short of managers, doctors, teachers, technicians. we are talking here of selective immigration and the necessary measures have not yet been taken to enable the diasporas, for example, to work for their countries. we can't even feed the people there. here we are renewing export subsidies for our agricultural products and we are promoting agrofuels which involve gigantic monocultures there. there, everything continues to unravel, misery spreads, disease kills, water is scarce. we talk a lot here, we make promises, we discuss, we vote resolutions, but what is happening in practice with regard to the peoples of africa? i share your view, and i know that you are deeply convinced, that it is high time that the parliaments of these countries should be associated, that is to say, that the peoples should be associated. i believe that no process between the european union and africa will work as long as there is one at the executive level, at the technical level. we must involve the peoples of africa and we must do so through their parliaments. and i am glad to hear the will to develop this particular relationship at parliamentary level, but i am wondering because, just before this debate, commissioner, we had a long debate with your colleague, mrs ashton, on economic partnership agreements. and here, strangely enough, it is almost impossible to get the parliaments of the partner countries involved. we are not able to convince a section of this house, and the commission as well, that it would still be necessary - before asking us, the european parliament, for our views on matters which will directly affect the lives of the people there - for their parliaments to be able to take a decision first. i hope, however, that things will change in this area. i also think it is important - you have also happily pointed this out - to involve much more, much better - i was referring to the diasporas, this is our home - the ngos and the african civil society in this process. i do not know what concrete steps have been taken in this respect, but i think they give the process you have started a chance of success.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for almost three years now the european commission and the member states have been committed to improving the efficiency of our cooperation with developing countries. some progress has been made, but there is strong resistance, especially within the member states, and therefore enormous progress remains to be made. access to health care and basic education, for example, is a dream come true for millions of people, many of whom are women. every day, 72 million children, mostly girls, are not in school. every minute a woman dies from complications related to pregnancy or childbirth, and every three seconds a child dies from diseases that a doctor could easily prevent. the geographical situation is still the most catastrophic in sub-saharan africa, as we have just said, and at the rate at which things are going, it may continue for many years to come. in such a context, it is true that budgetary aid, that is to say financial aid directly entered in the budget of the recipient countries, could usefully contribute to providing more predictable aid, targeted on priority sectors, and therefore more efficient. this is why the commission has devised the concept of 'millennium goals' contracts, which it intends to propose to certain countries to commit funds over a period of six years and to set up an annual monitoring system focusing on health and education performance. our report highlights the value of such an initiative, but it also raises a number of questions which require clear answers. what criteria, for example, will the commission propose to apply to enable a developing country to be eligible for such a contract? how long will such an initiative last and what will be the conditions for its implementation? we would also point out that the commission has not yet published any official communication on this initiative, so that for more information there is currently no purely internal document to rely on outside the basic information on the commission's website. although the commission's budget support has several positive aspects, such as being linked to health or education performance, or being generally planned over three years, it is also far from perfect. for example, i would point out that the commission, like most other aid providers, generally only grants budgetary aid to countries that have an imf programme in place. this is particularly problematic when such programmes can limit the government's ability to invest in development, due to excessive inflation and budget deficit targets. secondly, even if the commission chooses to provide long-term budgetary aid, there is no guarantee that this aid will not also be subject to bureaucratic procedures which, as we know, lead to long delays in disbursement. finally, the commission's budgetary support suffers from a serious lack of transparency and appropriation by the countries concerned and their populations. funding agreements are rarely made public, and the commission does not systematically include civil society organisations and parliamentarians in its dialogues with developing country governments, as has just been mentioned. yet it is now widely recognized that for the sake of efficiency, development must not only be fully in the hands of the government but also in the hands of the citizens of developing countries. in summary, the draft mdg contract will only be an opportunity to improve the effectiveness of our aid if we define it very clearly and specify the conditions for its eligibility, implementation and evaluation. our report therefore stresses the value of the initiative, while at the same time calling for caution and stressing the need for the commission to be much clearer about its intentions and to respond to the concrete questions raised in this report. i would not like to end without mentioning for a moment the recent special report of the european court of auditors on the european commission's assistance to health in sub-saharan africa. the conclusions of the report are worrying. from a financial point of view, it can be seen that since 2000, public support for the health sector has not increased. it also appears that budget support has done very little to improve the health sector in sub-saharan africa. you will understand why, commissioner, in the report we are going back to the idea that it is absolutely essential to focus more on the health sector, but that there is no guarantee that the mdg contracts will make it happen.
i would like to begin by congratulating mr becsey and thanking him for the good cooperation we have had on the report on micro-credit. we do not need to stress the importance of this report, especially in the present circumstances. i would like to draw a link between that report and the crisis we are facing today. we note that member states are trying to escape the economic crisis in a piecemeal fashion and that they are often preoccupied with themselves and with reactivating their own markets. the solution is not 'every man for himself', but a more european approach to the problem. in the united states under obama, public investment has been adopted en masse, and i think this is the right way to go. we in europe have 27 recovery plans, coordinated though they are, but funded by each of the member states individually. these recovery plans are a necessary but too limited step in the right direction. in this connection, reports on micro-credit, and also another report which will be on the agenda in the coming weeks, namely the globalisation fund, are very concrete steps for the people. especially today, when we have rising unemployment and banks are much less willing to lend. i have very little to say about the becsey report. i would like to stress once again what our main points were. we find these points in his report and as a result the european commission's text has also been improved in several respects. first, the sustainability of public eu funding. this is important because we have too many initiatives that are coexisting at the moment. there should be a budget in the eu budget for these micro-credits. secondly, clarification that these micro-credits are certainly intended for the longterm unemployed, people from disadvantaged groups, all of whom are not eligible for ordinary credit. these micro-credits are mainly provided locally. it is therefore very important that an activation policy is pursued at local level. we therefore insist that people who receive social benefits should not lose their rights by receiving micro-credits.
i voted against the martens report, not because i think it would be completely unbalanced. on the contrary, it contains a few things that are certainly correct. the problem is that in a report like this there is not a word said about the problem of illegal immigration, which is a very important problem when we are talking about problems of development cooperation with africa. what is also remarkable is the call in the report to ensure that the european blue card system has a dissuasive effect on the withdrawal of africans from sectors where they are needed. now, this is essential in the whole system of that blue card itself. the problem with the blue card is that it is used to organise the brain drain of people who are actually indispensable for the development of third world countries. they are bringing these people here, which will only make the problems there worse and bring more immigration to europe. this is essential and should be the subject of a thorough debate rather than just one paragraph in a report.
mr president, although the alternative resolution on multilingualism in europe which was finally adopted was much better than the original text, i did not vote in favour of it after deliberation. the two resolutions, the adopted and the original, call for the promotion of a european agency for linguistic diversity. now that sounds very nice, of course, and in principle i would support it, but then i read that, for example, non-european immigrants should be encouraged to continue to use their own mother tongue with us, that the european parliament even calls for the mother tongues of foreign minorities, or minorities from abroad, to be included in the curricula and that member states should not only encourage the use of the original languages, but above all the main language of immigrants. sorry, this is crazy. this leads to the opposite of adaptation and assimilation. this is the opposite of what is actually needed in all european countries.
i too did not approve the report on multilingualism. i am a firm supporter of the promotion of multilingualism, but both the original report and the amendment which was finally adopted contain a number of points which would be problematic if they were to be put into practice. the aim is to encourage immigrants to continue to use their native language, whereas in many member states this is a problem because they do not learn the language of their host country sufficiently, with all the consequences that this entails. the way in which the report deals with member states with more than one official language is also potentially problematic. of course, one must take account of specific situations, such as in belgium, for example, where every region except brussels is officially monolingual. in flanders we have the problem of a large number of french-speaking immigrants who refuse to adapt to the dutch-speaking character of flanders and it is not for europe to interfere with that and promise all kinds of rights that do not exist.
in writing. - i voted against the lambsdorf report because it does not make it clear that the eu member states should stay away from the mrr if certain unacceptable passages in the final document of the durban review conference are maintained. it should be stated clearly and once and for all that europe has no lessons in human rights to learn from islamic theocracies and other (semi-) dictatorships.
in writing. - i voted against the martens report, even though it contains many good and acceptable elements and is a relatively balanced report. but it is regrettable that a report on the eu-africa partnership does not mention the problem of illegal immigration, which is so pressing for europe and africa, and which is driving the brain out of africa and causing so many social problems in europe. moreover, this report is somewhat naïve in calling for the european blue card not to remove africans from sectors where they are needed. the rapporteur does not say a word about how something like this should be done.
in writing. - it is still strange that we in this institution are mordical about the lisbon illusion. it is not surprising, because it is a perfect illustration of the way in which official europe deals with the rule of law, the right to oppose and respect for the free choice of our citizens. the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european community for a long time. why can't we just respect that? i wonder, in essence, whether we should now invest €55 million again to support the institutions of the african union. these institutions have hardly a word of criticism for the bloody dictatorships that are part of them. i also wonder how the justified remark about the blue card as a feared instrument of further brain drain into europe fits in with the positions taken elsewhere. and in this whole report there is not a word said about the problem of illegal immigration. maybe we should put that $55 million there instead.
in writing. - what is this parliament doing? in paragraph one of this report, for example, i read that art education should be a compulsory part of the curriculum at all school levels in order to democratize access to culture. what a load of crap and what a meddling. let the member states decide how they complete their educational programmes. for the past 100 years, they've done it right. they can continue to do so for the next century without the intervention of the european union or the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted against this report because of the shocking hypocrisy of the text. the eu refuses to take account of the referendums in france and the netherlands on the european constitution and in ireland on the treaty of lisbon, but the report does not complain about that, on the contrary. in paragraph 5 it is stated, for example, in a particularly insulting and insulting way, that the 'no' vote by women is due to a lack of interest in europe. the references to the commission's so-called 'plan d' are also totally misplaced, because in most member states this 'plan b' amounted to a dialogue between peers and there was a clear refusal to take critical voices into account. this report should have denounced such abuses rather than tacitly condoning them.
in writing. - i voted with conviction against this very federalist and arrogant report. what arrogance to claim, as in recital b, that it is a population which does not understand europe sufficiently that voted against the european constitution. this is patently untrue. it is precisely those citizens who are well aware that the eu wants to undermine the last sovereignty of the member states who voted against the european constitution. what arrogance to claim that integration only affects the well-educated part of society. but the rapporteur is clear. those who think "wrongly" should be criminalised or made to look like fools. and then we can talk about active dialogue with the citizens.
in writing. - i abstained just now on the vote on the proceedings of the joint parliamentary assembly of europe with the acp countries, but in retrospect i should have voted against. in the years that i have been working in this parliament, i have had the impression that the acp countries are mainly used as an excuse for pleasant trips around the world, in all directions. let 's face it . what kind of a man has ever been hanged here? perhaps we should also start to evaluate all these mixed parliamentary systems. it's kind of fun, though. nice to see some of the world at the expense of jan publiek, that too. but whether all that tax money has produced anything useful, except for the hotel and airline sectors, i doubt very much.
in writing. - conscious of the need to discourage smoking among people, and especially among young people in our society, i abstained from this report. the eu wants to make fine-cut cigarettes and tobacco for rolling and cigarillos more expensive, but the question is whether the hypocritical path of higher taxes is the right one. the tobacco industry also employs a great many people within our member states and in times of crisis a thorough study should be carried out first on the impact of such measures on employment. would it not be better to discourage smoking through education rather than taxes ?
in writing. - i appreciate the rapporteur's efforts to produce a report, but i cannot support it. i am absolutely convinced of the usefulness of raising excise duties on tobacco in the fight against tobacco use. i would like to stress that health considerations are more important to me than economic considerations stricto sensu. i also regret that the rapporteur is weakening the proposals of the european commission. for these reasons i voted against mr becsey's report.
in writing. i have approved the muscardini report - or rather the overall text of the amendment - because no sensible person is unaware, of course, of the horrific sexual mutilations suffered by women and girls in - with complete disrespect - backward cultures and religions. i do regret that the usual code words about 'reproductive rights' are being inserted here too, although they do not really belong here and are supposedly only to serve to get the politically correct left along. what right to abortion has to do with the fight against barbaric mutilation remains a mystery to me. we should have used the opportunity to ask ourselves whether, for example, islam respects this basic value of equality between men and women. and if not, whether there is still room for that islam in our europe.
in writing. - i voted against this report because of the unlawful use that some minorities in flanders might make of the provisions it contains. of course, it is good to promote linguistic diversity in the eu, especially among young people, in all possible ways, but such a policy must not be at the expense of legal respect for regional languages. i am thinking, for example, of the dutch language in the province of flemish brabant in flanders. a european agency for linguistic diversity could soon become a means for the french-speaking minority to circumvent the obligation to use dutch in flanders. the past has shown enough how little 'europe' understands of the specific situations in the member states. it is up to immigrants and minorities to learn and use the language of the region where they come to live. this is evidence of linguistic diversity, not the other way around.
mr president, british prime minister gordon brown put it perfectly this morning: we may not be able to step on the spot, but it's time to act. it is indeed time for sustained and robust action. we europeans must now lead and take charge of the transition to a more sustainable car sector, and that can only be done if we guide this sector through this severe and life-threatening downturn. that is why i am making this appeal to you, mr verheugen, to the european commission. we really want europe, all of us together, to do much more for the future of our car companies. we have a unique opportunity here as the european union to prove that we are on the side of all those workers, of those 200,000 workers at opel in germany, in poland, in austria, in spain, in belgium, you name it. in concrete terms, this is why the european investment bank must make loans available and make the most of its leverage and leverage potential. we had a meeting here two weeks ago with the top of the industry in the european parliament and it became clear that there is one big problem: the sector is facing an acute shortage of capital. that is why cheap loans and government guarantees are so necessary, not just to survive, but above all to make a decisive switch to that car of the future, which will be electric, hybrid and above all environmentally friendly and ready to go into production. the social partners and especially the workers' representatives must be closely involved in this european recovery plan, because this dossier is also a litmus test for social dialogue at european level. commissioner, mr verheugen, it is not too late to act. please, let's not go through with this.
president, commissioner, as you yourself have said, we cannot have a debate on the automobile industry without saying a word about general motors today. it is good that you have brought the economic affairs ministers together to find a european approach. that is what you want, a european approach and not a national approach. but this european approach is also only possible if you involve the european works council in the debate and if this european works council receives all the information as required by law. i therefore ask you very clearly whether you are prepared to take such an initiative and to give the information which the member states have individually and which they have received from general motors to the european works council. secondly, you spoke of the european funds to deal with the social consequences for workers. i think that these means should also be used preventively. we must prevent the dumping of waste and not only use these european resources for the disposal of waste.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i too had expected a more genuine european dimension in the handling of the crisis. but on the other hand, it is more the time to carry out what we have decided rather than to keep on babbling about additional plans and forgetting to carry out what we have decided in the meantime. i therefore believe that we must now give priority to the actual implementation of what we have decided, with parliament, the council and the commission. i fully support the commission's approach on this point. we must also show that we are indeed united in our overall approach to the crisis and i hope that both in copenhagen and at the g20 it will indeed be seen that europe is effectively speaking with one voice. but to speak with one voice, we must ensure that we do not question what we have achieved internally, that the internal market remains indeed an internal market without domestic protectionism, that we strengthen the single currency. we must learn from this and increase the resources of the central bank and also give it more resources to be able to act with a european dimension. we must also make enlargement a reality and show solidarity with the new member states in these difficult times. that is what the european union is for. solidarity with the less developed countries in a global approach must also be a dimension of the european union. finally, a word on the treaty of lisbon. we as a parliament must be clear about our attitude, we must be clear about what will happen immediately after the european elections. but that also requires that we as a parliament really have an attitude and therefore i cannot understand much of the bureau's position that the reports on those positions should not be discussed here. i would urge that we review that opinion so that we can negotiate with the council with a position from parliament.
the böge report, mr president, is a great plea for more resources for the european union, and that is of course not surprising. but what particularly bothers me is that we have here again a report which explicitly refers to the treaty of lisbon, whereas that treaty is void after the referendum in ireland. and because the irish voted wrongly in their supposed referendum, they will have to go to the polls again in the autumn. the european parliament should at least have the decency to wait for the opinion of the electorate before adopting texts referring to the treaty of lisbon. we also adopted a report yesterday on the dialogue with citizens in europe. if we are to make this dialogue work, we must at least respect the judgment of the electorate.
in writing. the european parliament has called for the negotiations on a temporary partnership agreement with côte d'ivoire to include work permits for ivorian nationals for at least 24 months. they could work as home-care workers or in similar occupations. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have to deal with this problem. europe already has millions of unemployed and an additional import of foreign labour will only aggravate the existing problems. the occupations in question can be perfectly filled by our own labour force.
in writing. - green politicians are convinced that we cannot separate the economic and ecological crises. to really get the economy back on track, we need a green new deal. there is a huge potential for green jobs in the automotive sector. but to harness that, governments need to force and support car manufacturers to invest in innovation. a majority of the european parliament decided that the european union should pump a lot of money into its car industry. of course, a blank check is not the answer. we should not subsidize old, perishable technologies. instead, we need to force car manufacturers to invest in innovation right away. this is how you make the sector future-proof and how you really do a service to the millions of europeans who work in the car industry. the green group proposed that funding should only be made available on condition that the car industry significantly improves its environmental performance. transport is responsible for about one third of all co2 emissions in the eu. i voted against the majority resolution because it does not make improving environmental performance a condition for obtaining public money.
it is good that several initiatives are being taken to commemorate the victims of totalitarian regimes in a suitable way. but it is of course pointless to commemorate the victims of regimes that have fallen, such as communism and national socialism, and at the same time to turn a blind eye to the victims of a current totalitarian threat, such as islamism. the condemnation of totalitarian islam is by no means a condemnation of individual muslims in europe who conform to the rules, values and norms of a democratic state governed by the rule of law and for whom religion is a private matter. but we have to be bold enough to recognize that political islam, totalitarian islam, continues to cause many victims around the world, not just islamic states, or certain islamic states, but also terrorist organizations like al-qaeda and its affiliates. it is therefore appropriate that the european union should take a number of strong initiatives to commemorate these victims and to ensure that in the future there are as few, if any, victims as possible of such totalitarian islamic organizations and countries. we must dare to admit - and this is also a problem in the european union - that criticism of totalitarian islam is not always welcomed because of the spirit of political correctness that prevails here. we have just also had to note that totalitarian islam is not even mentioned in the statements of the commission and the council, whereas one must actually have the courage to face up to this problem and take the necessary measures.
president. - the president of uefa, mr michel platini, has recently come to the european parliament with excellent proposals to curb the scourge of child trafficking in football. there is a clear link with the question put by mrs batzeli. the uefa proposal is clear: stop international transfers of young players, of children under 18. this is of course a delicate matter, because in the eyes of many it is an infringement of freedom of movement in europe. the question is which interest and principle takes precedence here. we all agree that a sound education for young people and children both in school and in the sports club is paramount. the fact that children are trafficked at a young age, sometimes from one end of europe to the other, with their whole family or without their family, cannot possibly be good for a balanced education. that is why i ask you, commissioner: will you support the proposal put forward by uefa and will you also start a dialogue with the players, clubs, leagues and federations concerned in the near future? i have a second question about the so-called six plus five, which is also designed to protect young players and encourage clubs to invest more in the training of their own youth. the german research institute inea has recently carried out a study on this subject at the request of fifa and says that six plus five is indeed in order and is compatible with european law. mr figel, how do you see that? we would also like you to ask the european union to enter into dialogue with the sports governing bodies on this subject, in the light of the specific nature of football, which we all agree on, and of course also with a view to the lisbon treaty.
i voted against the three alternative resolutions because i believe that counterfeit products are a serious problem and that we must try to protect the citizens of europe as much as possible against the importation of counterfeit goods. i am not even talking about the economic implications of counterfeit products. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. i am referring to the fact that the registration must take place in indian ports. i also regret that when we talk about the serious terrorist attacks that have taken place, we talk about political groups when everyone knows that we are talking about islamist groups.
i voted for the auken report because i believe that every citizen in europe has the right to the correct application of any legislation and that the private property of every citizen in the european union must be guaranteed by all public authorities in any member state. many people have been victims of dubious decisions in spain and many of them have appealed to the committee on petitions, and i think they have done so with good reason. at the same time, i also have mixed feelings because i think we should be careful about voting for legislation which means that we are again getting more european involvement to the detriment of the member states. i am thinking in particular of the situation in the flemish suburbs of brussels, where the european union is beginning to intervene with a housing policy aimed at enabling young flemish families to continue living in their own region.
president. - i have a great deal of sympathy for the transatlantic relations and i agree with the general outline of the millán mon report. i voted against it, however, because there are a number of important gaps in this report. for example, the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon is explicitly anticipated - once again we must note this here - even though this treaty has not yet been adopted. the voters in ireland should be respected. the palestinian problem is also discussed, but at the same time there is no mention of israel's security. and last but not least, there is again the call to the member states to take in some of the guantanamo detainees, alleged terrorists. that is totally unacceptable to me. it is also unacceptable that it is not clearly stated that the united states should not interfere in the enlargement policy of the european union and that turkey has no place in the european union.
it is a good thing that amendment no 5 has been rejected. the amendment was intended to delete an essential passage in the report, which was essential because it advocated freedom of expression. it is a basic democratic fact that controversial political beliefs must be exempt from criminal prosecution. freedom of expression must be absolute and must certainly apply to political positions also on controversial issues such as immigration, islam and so on. i think that this report is very well balanced, balances rights and freedoms and takes a stand against censorship. i therefore voted in favour of this report with a lot of conviction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of a regulation on the financing of the common agricultural policy and the common organization of agricultural markets as regards the supply of food to the most deprived. data show that in 2006 some 13 million people received assistance from member states under this programme. this is a good thing, but aid to the poorest in the eu should be stepped up considerably. let us begin by cutting the salaries of eu commissioners in half or dividing them by three. the european think tank open europe has estimated that a commissioner will earn an average of €2.5 million over five years, including pension plans. this is outrageous! half of this money should go to poverty reduction. perhaps this is a way of reconciling the european citizen with 'europe'.
in writing. - outsourcing to subcontractors is one of the most effective ways of undermining social legislation, according to a study by the dublin foundation. subcontractors are found in various sectors. the construction sector is the most well-known. this report calls on the commission to draw up comprehensive legislation on social responsibility in subcontracting, throughout the production process! all too often, contractors shift responsibility to subcontractors, who in turn outsource work. this eliminates the need for monitoring and control of the application of labour legislation. those who work for a subcontractor and are more at the end of the production chain do not always do so in the best working conditions: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is difficult for the social inspectorate to check this, since it is not always clear who is responsible. this in turn invites subcontractors to be less strict about social security contributions, respecting the legal scales or observing legal rest periods. certain member states already require contractors to assume full social responsibility for all their subcontractors. the european union must also take action to combat the spread of this disease. that is why i support this report in its entirety.
in writing. the report is a powerful call for a deepening of relations between europe and the united states. the middle east, pakistan, afghanistan, russia, defense, security, and economic and commercial matters are thoroughly discussed. but it is unacceptable that the rapporteur should explicitly anticipate the entry into force of the lisbon report, when it has been clearly demonstrated that a majority of citizens should not know of a european constitution or a copy of it. it is good that the rapporteur is paying attention to the palestinian question, but why is there no mention of israel's right to security? it is because of this bias that i voted against this report.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because i believe that it undermines the credibility of parliament. it is always making loud declarations about human rights and stressing that human rights are the main objective of foreign policy. and now they are going to sign an agreement with a country which is massively violating these same human rights. the slogan is that the signing of such an agreement is the way to advance human rights in the country concerned. the same story is told by those who favour turkish accession. ok, there are human rights violations and mass torture, but once turkey is a member of the european union, that's all over. the facts, however, prove otherwise.
in writing. - this is a good resolution, which carefully balances rights and duties and makes a bold call against censorship. indeed, in recent years, too many attempts have been made to censor the internet in the name of political correctness, so that controversial ideas are denied access not only to the printed press, but also to the world wide web. the web has been a thorn in the side of the inquisitionists who control the media and who prefer to ban any criticism of, for example, multicultural society through so-called "racism laws". a free internet is the best guarantee for free speech.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to make a quick recap on the arctic so that everyone understands the issues at stake in the debate. at the north pole, global warming is sharpening appetites for control of the area's riches. the thaw will facilitate the exploitation - you said it - of the enormous oil and gas reserves and will open up a sea route between east and west, saving thousands of kilometres for cargo ships, but unfortunately disastrous for the environment. the claim of sovereignty over the area by the five border countries canada, denmark, russia, the united states and norway leads to a noticeable tension. the canadian foreign minister announced this week that "canada's sovereignty over the lands and waters of the arctic goes back a long way; the government of canada has also promised increased political surveillance and military presence in canadian arctic waters. these words echo the kremlin's declaration to deploy military forces to the arctic to defend its interests. today, the regulation of this strategic area is governed by the united nations convention on the law of the sea, signed by 150 countries on december 10, 1982. it provides that coastal states exercise control over an area up to 200 miles from their coasts and have rights to exploit the resources of the seabed, but this area can be extended if states can prove that the continental shelves extend beyond 200 miles. and they have until may 2009 - that's close - to file a petition with the un. russia has been in the lead since 2001, hence the current turmoil. for my group, and for michel rocard, who initiated this debate in the pes and who has just been appointed as ambassador for the arctic, given the energy, environmental and military issues, the convention on the law of the sea is not enough for the arctic. the north pole is a world heritage site which must be protected by a binding charter and in which the european union must play a leading role. we want a clean north pole and above all a demilitarized one.
mr president, it is always the case that a report on an anti-discrimination directive in parliament brings out the worst in the worst. it is a pity that this worst of all is, as is often the case, wrapped up in a lot of good proposals and ideas to help people with disabilities, for example. but that doesn't change the facts of the case. the amendment by mr weber, amendment no 81, says the essential things: i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposal. it must be abolished because it involves far too much red tape, but above all because it essentially violates the principle of subsidiarity. unfortunately, we all know that this amendment will not succeed, because this parliament does not miss any opportunity to show its most politically correct side and always opts for more bureaucracy and more decisions over the heads of the european citizens. apart from the violation of the principle of subsidiarity, this report also contains numerous proposals which are completely contrary to basic democratic principles and to the principles of the rule of law. i am thinking of amendment no 54: the report as a whole calls with much pomp for non-discrimination against individuals, but here it is advocating discrimination on the basis of non-politically correct beliefs. but yes, that is ultimately what many aspects of this report are about. hidden in a list of pious principles and pseudo-good intentions is a legalization of political correctness. it is not about anti-discrimination measures. very often, these are genuine muzzle-loading laws designed to further undermine freedom of expression and to reinforce a kind of progressive terror of opinion. the essential question is and remains: what in the world is europe doing? for the love of god, leave what belongs to the member states to the member states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, like those who have come before me, i should like to begin by thanking our two rapporteurs, kathalijne buitenweg and elizabeth lynne, for the excellent work they have done in the context of - i repeat - enhanced cooperation. i feel very close to the general line advocated by elizabeth lynne, but i would like to commend the intelligence, the openness and the conciliatory spirit which kathalijne buitenweg has shown throughout the discussion in our committee in trying to achieve a balanced report which would be supported by a large majority in parliament. i hope it will succeed and that the more radical elements - on the one hand, it seems to me, sometimes on the other - will not be able to poison the vote. in this respect - and i am not known as a left-wing fanatic - i must say that i am surprised and appalled by the amendment tabled by our colleague - and i also support it - mr weber and a few others. manfred, i listened to you during your speech, and none of the arguments you used seem to me to be intellectually grounded. you mentioned fantasies, you didn't mention reasons. if we read the justification for your amendment, we cannot help but be appalled by its poverty: refusing to fight discrimination because we are afraid of excessive bureaucracy. and when you try to make this proposal a fight between the right and the left, you're wrong. fighting discrimination is not a matter of right or left, it is a matter of humanism and respect for fundamental rights. (applause) i would like to thank that's why tomorrow - i think and i hope - you will be defeated.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i too, on behalf of my group, would like to bow to these new victims of poverty, criminal exploitation and state cynicism. but compassion is not enough. we have to face reality. the reality, mr president, is that the real southern borders of the european union are no longer really in europe, they are now on the african continent. as soon as the boats leave the african coast, the unfortunate passengers have no choice but to die, if we dare say so, if the conditions are not right, or to be declared irregular, with its procession of misery, if by chance they manage to reach the european coast, before, in most cases, being expelled. these recurring dramas will only end when the european union has the power and the will to negotiate with the countries of origin and transit genuine partnership agreements which will include at least three elements: serious border controls, but also and above all a significant offer of legal immigration and a substantial component of co-development. without such agreements, mr president, the sea graveyards will continue to fill up for a long time to come, despite the weak and helpless breath of our compassion.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, before we get to the substance, a word, if you please, on the form. i am not the first and i will certainly not be the last to denounce rule 45 of the rules of procedure, which confiscates the debate this evening on this question, which is a citizen's question of all. no debate, no interlocutors from the groups, no. i would therefore like to thank, despite everything, even if they are not here, i am sorry, mrs ayala, mrs lucas, mr adamou, mrs sinnott, mrs ferreira and even mr van nistelrooij, who are deprived of a chamber, an empty chamber, almost, at almost 11 o'clock. it is not a bad time, either, at 11 p.m., for a question which is passionate and yet which concerns millions of citizens in europe. i'm coming to the bottom. it is a matter of concern to us that the european parliament has not dealt with this matter for ten years. it was time, because ten years is a century, or almost, in terms of new technologies: boom of wireless devices, mobile phones, wi-fi, bluetooth, relay antennas, high-voltage lines. we are living in a real tidal wave, with undeniable benefits, which i do not question at any point in this report, but also with, it must be said, serious questions about the impact on our health. so let us be clear, i had to draw up this report in a rather sensitive context, with an ever-growing controversy about the health risks of these low-frequency waves and the inability of the scientific community, too, to reach an agreement. some examples of the ambitious proposals which i hope will be supported tomorrow: the protection of risk areas and vulnerable populations, namely schools, nurseries, retirement homes, rest homes, health facilities, of course. it is also essential to moralise this issue by establishing procedures which ensure the independence of research and scientific expertise. the call also for a change in behaviour towards mobile phones: earphones, limitation among young people and children, educating them on safer practices for them, also supervising some marketing campaigns, still sharing relay antennas and pylons by operators and electricity companies. a regret, however, and it is important because it concerns the first initial paragraph of my report, calling for a revision of the emission ceilings. unfortunately, i was not followed by my colleagues in the committee on the environment, although the same text was voted on - i would like to remind you of this - almost unanimously in our plenary session on 2 september, in the context of another report on the european action plan for the environment and health for the period 2004-2010. the ostrich policy currently being pursued by the commission - i apologize for using that term, commissioner - certainly does not contribute to the clarification that european citizens expect and, on the contrary, experts continue to differ, the number of lawsuits is increasing, sometimes in favour of operators, sometimes in favour of local residents' associations. in conclusion, this method of the status quo, which is advocated by the who and by the commission as well, with this appointment clause in 2015 - another decade almost - to see if continuous exposure to this cocktail of low frequency waves would not be responsible for cancer tumors. this is not the right approach. it seems to me to be a lightweight and i sincerely hope that the future will not tell us that it was guilty of the potential health issues. the precautionary principle underlying our statement is not a principle of inaction, but a principle of action and expertise to reduce uncertainty. it is this dynamic and progressive definition that we are defending today in the sensitive field of electromagnetic waves. that is why i am in full sympathy with the alternative resolution tabled by the green group, and i should like to make that clear. it is, moreover, the same as my original proposal to reduce emission thresholds, as nine member states and a whole series of regions are already doing, including two which are all close to me - wallonia and the brussels region - namely three voltmeters instead of the forty-one voltmeters now authorised by the 1999 recommendation. however, i am the european parliament's rapporteur on this matter and i would like above all to preserve the other advances in this report, as adopted in committee. that is, of course, what i shall be calling for tomorrow. in conclusion, mr president, commissioner, i would like to make two points. the question of electromagnetic waves and their impact remains open and i am sure that the next european parliament will take up this matter again. europe must reassure its citizens and take back control of this debate, which is now confined to the judicial arena.
mr president, i am sorry, but you did not vote for the other side. i think it is extraordinary that we debated this resolution yesterday and that, on the contrary, at the moment when we table it and ask for a 50-year moratorium on the exploitation of oil wealth, at the moment when we ask for a binding charter, and when we know that the countries have until the end of april to demand, at the un level, the sovereignty of the seabed and therefore, indeed, this idea of sovereignty, accompanied by a military deployment, is for the moment at play. if we don't make a difference and make our voices heard, that's a step backwards, and we're not going to be proactive, and i absolutely disagree with that. (applause) i would like to thank
i have already made a number of arguments in the debate yesterday, mr president, as to why the amendments and proposals in the buitenweg report were unacceptable to me, if possible even more so than the original commission proposal for the anti-discrimination directive itself. in any case, even with the amendments voted on today, it remains an intolerable violation of the principle of subsidiarity. it is again organizing a huge administrative burden, which costs a great deal of money and creates difficulties for the member states. and it is above all a sign of a particularly high level of mistrust of the member states themselves. the problem with that kind of text, of course, where everything is in there, is that there are some good things in there. i shall use the explanation of vote to confirm, if necessary, that i have obviously won for the great efforts of the whole community in favour of the handicapped, for example. but here too i am convinced that this is best organised at member state level.
mr president, the joint motion for a resolution which we have adopted today contains a number of points which are worthy of attention. i agree, for example, that the sacrifices made by many people in the fight against the totalitarian regimes of 21st century europe should not be forgotten. but i do have a few comments. it is regrettable that there is no paragraph on the allies of those totalitarian regimes which until very recently held almost all of eastern europe in the grip. it is true that so-called right-wing politicians made very little effort to demand democratization in eastern europe, but it is even more true that there are many left-wing politicians who actively supported communist regimes, even if they are playing the role of murdered innocence today, including in this parliament. a second consideration. we should actually have the courage to take a stand against the mules' laws with this report. historical research, however difficult, must be carried out delicately with respect for the victims, but in complete freedom. it's a shame we missed both of these opportunities.
president. - thank you for the interpreters who are working overtime. i would just like to say that i voted against the schmitt report with particular conviction, firstly because i believe that education should remain a competence of the member states and that the european level has little to do with it. that is a fundamental question. but i have other objections to the schmitt report, for example that it is based on the idea that the education systems in the various european countries should adapt to the presence of non-european immigrants rather than the other way around. i do not understand how this statement can be reconciled with integration, let alone with the promotion of assimilation, because the exact opposite will be the result. of course, as always, this report contains the obligatory roma clause, again without asking who is responsible for what. i also read that the member states must ensure that the children of immigrants receive education in their mother tongue and that the teaching staff must reflect the multicultural society per se. i'm sorry, but this is a politically correct report that creates more problems than it solves.
in writing. - i voted against this report because such directives undermine the ability of member states to control their territory and to take appropriate measures to safeguard public order. i am thinking, for example, of italy, which was severely criticised on the basis of this directive for taking strong measures to maintain public order. i am thinking of the mettock judgment of the court of justice which undermines the immigration policies of the member states on the basis of this directive. but i also think of belgium, which is continuing to naturalise foreigners on the basis of the most lax nationality laws in the world, allowing them to cross european borders unhindered and freely.
in writing. - i voted against this report with all my heart. of course, we are all against discrimination against people on the grounds of disability, sexual orientation and so on. the question is only whether europe is concerned about this. i don't think it is. measures against discrimination should remain the exclusive competence of the member states. i therefore voted for amendment no 81 which considers the proposal for a directive in question to be a fundamental breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the report also contains numerous recommendations which run counter to basic democratic principles and the rule of law. to give just one example. while this report calls for non-discrimination against persons on the grounds of their beliefs, it at the same time explicitly allows for discrimination on the grounds of political beliefs.
in writing. - i voted against this report, which is another example of political correctness, if only because it violates the eu's subsidiarity principle and involves a huge amount of administrative burden. of course, i am also against any form of discrimination based on disability, age or sexual orientation. but this report contains many recommendations which are contrary to the most elementary principles of the rule of law. the rapporteur has suddenly accepted that discrimination is permissible when it is based on political orientation. the principle of equality should no longer apply. this is crazy.
in writing. − as a lawyer, i cannot accept the imposition at european level of the reversal of the burden of proof as provided for in the new anti-discrimination directive. it is virtually impossible to prove what is not, and much easier to prove what is. however, the eu must ensure that its citizens can also live up to the high principles and values enshrined in the eu treaty. it is a good thing to legislate horizontally on this. that is why i voted for the buitenweg report in its entirety.
in writing. - this resolution is quite critical and we welcome the explicit conditionality of the political dialogue on progress in human rights and internal freedom. the regime in the country is still far short of its responsibilities in this area, particularly as regards freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of the democratic opposition and the media. but too many points indicate that the regime's recent concessions are just a cosmetic operation against foreigners by president-dictator lukashenko. it is far too early to start a normal dialogue with belarus.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this balanced resolution condemning all forms of totalitarianism. the 20th century was the century of the greatest mass murder in history. nazi germany, soviet russia, cambodia, china, rwanda are there to remind us of the sheer madness and cruelty that man is capable of to his equals when tyranny takes away freedom. but i have one thing to say: i refuse to create a hierarchy of suffering. each suffering is unique and deserves our respect. whether it is the suffering of jewish people, tutsis, kulaks, russian prisoners of war or polish priests. that is why i abstained on amendment no 19.
mr president, i must say that i am a little surprised that when we debated this resolution, no one thought it was unnecessary. absolutely no one, mrs. wallis in the first place. secondly, it is true that the commission has invoked the fact that the european union wishes to be part of the arctic council, etc. it seems to me that, in accordance with the wishes expressed by the commission, this new resolution, which says very clearly that we want a moratorium on drilling and that we want a demilitarised zone in the arctic, is a particularly important resolution at a time when the border countries are making efforts, including military efforts, in this area to claim their ownership and their drilling possibilities. so from a political point of view, it is absolutely important to vote on this text, and this turn of events by mrs wallis and by a part of the house is absolutely unjustified, given the debates we have had.
- i'm the reporter. - the labelling of energy-efficient car tyres is a bit oddly balanced between electricity and gas here today. nevertheless, these are important and very tangible measures which are of direct concern to all consumers, all motorists, most of us in europe. it is a concrete intervention that costs little or nothing and will make a significant contribution to achieving our ambitious climate goals. the tyres of a car - i do not know if you are aware of this - are responsible for 20 to 30% of the total fuel consumption of a car. so it stands to reason that there is a huge potential for energy efficiency and savings. what are we going to do, exactly? we are going to try to persuade all motorists, that is to say the majority of the population, to pay attention in future to the energy efficiency and noise emission of tyres. we are not obliging anyone, we are simply informing, as we do today with refrigerators, for example, by means of a clear label, a label or a sticker. who wants to drive around on a b or c tyre as a consumer when they can also drive around on an environmentally friendly a version? an a-version which is also more economical for the wallet in the long run. that is pure profit, as it is called, profit for the consumer and profit for the environment above all. one number: the impact assessment shows a potential for savings of up to one and a half million tonnes of co2. this is equivalent to removing the co2 emissions of about one million passenger cars on european roads. once this measure is in full swing, it means that the co2 emissions of one million passenger cars are taken away. that is impressive! there is, of course, profit for the tyre manufacturers themselves. we have of course - and this is logical - consulted the industry itself in the preparation of this measure. it's safe to say here: it is not worthwhile to impose new regulations on a sector which is particularly affected by the crisis in the motor vehicle sector if this costs extra money and involves bureaucratic burdens. these are arguments that cut through wood and cannot be brushed aside. this labelling directive is also a good thing for the manufacturers of quality car tyres. that is why we attach such importance to the control of implementation, which is essential for creating a level playing field, but at a high level. it goes without saying that environmental friendliness must never be at the expense of safety and that is why we have also amended this text. safety, of course, remains the number one criterion for a car tyre. a word about the noise emission criterion. that is also in it, you know, because noise pollution is one of the great diseases of our time. i am convinced that it is therefore a good thing that we have introduced a prudent and feasible criterion in this connection to further reduce noise pollution, but as i said, never at the expense of the safety of the car and the car tyre. one last word on the timeline, the timing. i think we have reached an ambitious but reasonable compromise here. we naturally expect that, as with the co2 emissions of cars themselves, tyre manufacturers in this area will be able to bring products to market much earlier that will meet the most environmentally friendly standards.
- i'm the reporter. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the labelling of energy-efficient tyres. i'd like to say a few words about the cost. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's steel industry is able to compete with the community's steel industry. the cost to manufacturers is budgeted at less than 1 euro cent per tyre and is therefore negligible for anyone to criticize. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. the benefits to the driver and the environment begin then. having said that, i would like to stress that it is essential that this measure is applied in the same way in all member states and for all producers inside and outside the eu. that is why we prefer a regulation to a directive. one final point to make: we are aware that there are still differences of opinion between a number of groups in this parliament on a number of points, but we hope that we will be able to adopt this measure tomorrow by a large majority. at cruising speed, this simple intervention will save us the equivalent of taking one million cars off the road. it is therefore obvious that we must start sooner rather than later. finally, i would like to thank the shadow colleagues, alix chambris of the european commission and alfredo sousa pinto of the epp group, for their excellent cooperation.
i am going to confine myself to the budget of this parliament and express my satisfaction with mr casaca's report, especially with regard to the chapter on the voluntary pension fund. we have adopted some ten paragraphs in it, some of which were originally amendments of my own making which i think were necessary here. what is happening to the voluntary pension fund has been thrown on the rocks by the eurosceptics. and rightly so, for it is a scandal! it is unethical what is happening and we must act against it. we cannot accept that in times like these these members of parliament are thinking more of their own income than of the income of the citizens. i would like to say with mr ferber: yes, eurosceptics, you are sitting there, it's all empty chairs. you have not in any way tried to contribute constructively to the eradication of errors during this parliamentary term. i would ask members to approve very explicitly paragraph 105 concerning the voluntary pension fund. it will ensure that the bureau of this parliament is forced not to use taxpayers' money to fill the huge deficit, because this is not justifiable. i therefore call on all colleagues to support and approve the casaca report in its entirety. i've asked for a majority vote. everybody needs to bare their butts!
in writing. - i voted against this report because it contains a number of points which are unacceptable. for example, it is estimated that the eu will need 60 million new immigrants by 2050. given the current problems of mass immigration, that is a crazy proposal. it is also argued that the blue card should not be limited to highly educated workers: so, apparently, the floodgates have to be opened wide.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. but i would ask you, mr president, and the bureau of parliament to take note of the council's absence and not to leave it at that. we can't let them play us. i would urge the bureau to consider sending a very strong protest letter to the council saying that this cannot be done. that is correct, we are going to grant a stay. this is very clear now. we cannot give the council a discharge. it is not fraud. it is a matter of principle, namely transparency. the european union has a budget of €650 million, which mr solana manages and does not control in the fields of defence, security and foreign policy. this is not acceptable in a democracy. that is something that must be put to the test. hence the justified demands for a report on activities, transparency and clarity. but there's more. as rapporteur on vat fraud, i clearly put a number of questions to the council in my report, which was adopted on 4 december, and asked for a response. we are now four or five months into the process and the council is remaining deafeningly silent, whereas the fraud is estimated at between 60 and 100 billion euros a year. the council must act. we need to coordinate the fight against vat fraud and as long as the banks are silent, i will not grant the council a discharge.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am assuming that we will consider the three reports which form part of the road package as a whole debate. i would like to thank the council and the commission staff. the work we have done in the last two years has produced a good result. road and freight transport in the european area accounts for about 75% of traffic and employs two million people. so when we were about to open up to 25 countries in may 2009, we needed some new regulations. the commission's proposals also went in this direction. as regards the report by my colleague, mrs ţicău, i should also like to thank her and all the rapporteurs on the road package for their constructive cooperation. it is important that we put a clear emphasis on transport companies. they must demonstrate their reliability and sound financial structure throughout europe. traffic managers should be able to demonstrate either long experience or a high level of training. serious infringements may lead to the loss of this reliability, which also means that member states are required to carry out checks and to punish infringements even after the entry into force of this regulation. this is often lacking in the transport sector as a whole. more than half of parliament's amendments were accepted. i do not want to go into all of them here, but i would like to highlight one very important result for me from this unofficial trilogue, namely the fight against the letterbox companies. they distort competition and weaken domestic enterprises. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this form of establishment, including the elimination of social and fiscal dumping, which was also a theme of the roadmap as a whole. access to the market for buses and lorries: this regulation, particularly as regards buses, has largely been about the so-called 12-day rule, because we have reached agreement very quickly on the other points. the reintroduction of the possibility of taking this weekly rest period after 12 days is not a compromise in terms of safety. the daily driving and rest periods must be observed and in such journeys a driver never exceeds the daily driving times allowed. these 12-day tours also contribute to the integration of europe and are a very cost-effective form of holiday for many people. the debate on market access has been one of the most intense on the transport of goods, and here parliament has not achieved all that it wanted. but we have a compromise, and it's a good one. it seems to me that this compromise is a good starting point, especially for cabotage: three trips in seven days. the ultimate aim is to regulate services in a third country and cabotage should be opened up in the medium term. we are waiting for proposals from the commission, because cabotage should also be used to avoid empty flights. we do not want to see their temporary restriction as protectionism. at the present time, when social and fiscal harmonization in the transport sector is not at all effective, it was very good to limit it in order to avoid unfair competition. but we cannot wait two years for this regulation to be implemented. six months for cabotage and the 12-day rule must be enough. i would also like a clear answer from the commission that countries which have already opened their cabotage under article 306 of the treaty will not be prevented from continuing to do so under this regulation. i hope that the commission will make a clear statement today on the further opening up of cabotage and on article 306.
i would like to thank mr grosch and mr ţicău for the work they have done and i think we are quite right in the fact that mrs ţicău's report is very strict on market access. if you want to have a transport company, you have to follow a number of rules and, as mathieu grosch has said, the letterbox companies have to go, because that is where a lot of abuse comes from. but that is mrs ţicău's report. why then can we not give those companies for which we are strict a european market to work on? i now come to the report by mr grosch: i would have welcomed a clarification, but not a restriction. so the compromise you have reached, mr rapporteur, cannot be accepted by the vast majority of our group. actually, we're going to take a step back. we are again restricting the possibilities of hauliers on the european market. there is no prospect of an opening in 2014, as we as a parliament had requested. the council does not agree with that, but i think that is too much of a concession. we are actually organising empty truck rides which we should not be doing at this time. i wonder whether the member states which have now opened their cabotage markets to each other can still do so with this regulation if they wish to do so bilaterally. i have my doubts about that. i also wonder how the member states who now say that control is difficult are going to control this, because it is not that much easier. it is the same in all countries, but it is very difficult to control and i would like to see if the police authorities can do that. if wage costs and social dumping are the reason, why do i see documents in which the french authorities are reprimanding a french client for using too many belgian truck drivers? they're more expensive than the french ones. why, then, do i hear stories of belgian lorries being chained up in the united kingdom for relatively minor offences? because the drivers are cheaper there than in belgium. so if social abuse was a reason, it's certainly not true in this case. i think the result is that we are taking a step backwards with the single market. we are voting for intelligent transport systems tomorrow, which means that we are saying that communication technology and information technology will lead to more efficient freight transport. then we say: we're going to limit it for political reasons. i am very sorry about that and will therefore not be in favour of the agreement which parliament will unfortunately be voting for by a majority.
i would first of all like to thank the rapporteurs, mr grosch and mrs ţicău, for the work they have done and for the fact that they have finally reached a compromise on the package. it is a compromise which should, at best, only last for a few years. i think it's a middle ground. there are two important things about road transport. the first is indeed access to the profession. i think that this is a good thing, and we are asking for some guarantees from those who want to be active in the sector. as regards cabotage, it is clear that there is some controversy. this is a good intermediate step that was needed to define more clearly what can be done. in the past, it was rather vague that cabotage was possible on a temporary basis. this is now clarified, three times in a seven-day period. it is indeed logical that you should throw that out in the open, but i think the time is not right. the compromise now on the table, namely that we should study the social situation in the european union within a few years and possibly take further steps, seems to me a very reasonable proposal. the opening up of the market must go hand in hand with the levelling of the social bar. i also think that in the meantime a number of countries or groups of countries - i am thinking of the benelux - should be able to agree with each other that things will remain as they are and that cabotage will therefore be possible without restrictions. i have no problem with that as long as wages and working conditions are more or less the same, but that is clearly not the case everywhere yet and so this intermediate stage is necessary.
i would like to say to the commissioner that mrs hennis-plasschaert is no longer here because she had to attend another meeting. i am a willing listener to all those who have been involved in this in our group. i just wanted to let you know that she didn't just leave.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would first like to thank the commission for its very clear answers. i am convinced that the cabotage restriction is a transition, that the study is being carried out and that, depending on the outcome, the market will be opened. it is also very important that article 306 is applied here and, mr dirk sterckx, it is quite clear that it also applies to the benelux countries, so the proposal you have put forward is superfluous and we do not need to agree to it any more. the other thing i want to say is about the cabotage itself. i think that this compromise is even better than i thought, for the simple reason that i am saying this, and i am saying this in particular to my liberal friends and my friend from the cda: if we create a transitional opportunity, it does not mean that we want to turn the neck of the single market, to use the expression, and we do not want to turn the neck of the companies either. if we now know that certain companies drive the most modern vehicles but pay their drivers 400 euros a month, while other companies pay 1 500 euros a month, then it is more than reasonable for me to say that the social bar needs to be raised a little. if you can spend money to comply with the car, then you can also spend money to comply with the wages. you gotta lift that bar. when this bar is raised, then you can also open the market. i do not think that is the correct understanding of an open market, to say that i will open it and see what happens afterwards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is a lack of harmonisation, so we let the market develop as it does. some come and say they want to have restrictions, and others say we have far too many restrictions. if we want to convince the citizens of europe, we cannot say: the market should open up and the rest will take care of itself. i'm not going to. environmental, social and taxation law must be dealt with here in this house together with the council and the commission. then we'll have credibility.
on behalf of the alde group, i would like to thank the rapporteurs. i think we have added some more to the passenger rights. we have worked hard to put things in order for aviation and rail. i think we have gained a great deal of experience in producing these reports and i am glad that mr albertini has put things in order so that we make no or as little distinction as possible between the modes, namely only where necessary. i think that we are now taking a step forward in improving the quality of service, because that is what we must always keep in mind. we have learned from what we have done in the past, for example the tightening of the definition of force majeure. we must look at this again in the case of aviation, for example, and i am glad that we have done so here in the case of shipping. as regards mr albertini's report, an important question - and mr evans and mr jarzembowski have also referred to it - is what is now covered by the regulation. we have withdrawn our support as a group for the amendment which we had originally tabled with you, not because we think it is a bad amendment, but because the socialists have found a better wording, as mr evans has described it. we are in any case leaving regional transport within the scope of the regulation, but leaving open the possibility of including urban and suburban transport if the member states so wish. i think that this approach is more in line with what we wanted and we will therefore also support the proposal of our colleagues from the pse group.
mr president, commissioner, i thank you, but generally speaking i hope the commission would think that the time is right to review the guidelines on vertical restraints that you have just mentioned, because in fact they are already some ten years old. the most recent developments must of course be taken into account: online sales and electronic auctions have profoundly changed our distribution methods and the conditions of competition. we must be aware of this.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr savary for his work, i would like to thank him for his commitment to defending a european transport policy in the big cities, in the cities. this is not a secondary issue: if we really want to meet the transport challenge in europe, we must work in the field of urban transport. and that is why i want to thank mr savary first. i repeat, thanks to him we have made progress in urban transport and today's report, which will be voted on tomorrow, is a very important signal. i hope that in the next parliament i can give mr savary a positive response to his commitment. i thank him again for the work he has done on transport in the big cities. now i'll continue in my native language. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, urban transport is certainly an integral part of the transport system of the european union, because the whole system often begins and ends in large urban areas, and it goes through many tragic periods. this is why urban mobility is important not only for the life of cities, but also for all transport, including long-distance transport. combating climate change, facilitating trade, guaranteeing energy supplies, meeting the mobility needs of citizens, reducing congestion problems and tackling demographic change are all issues of fundamental importance for european policy and the mobility of urban areas is intimately linked to all these challenges. this is why the commission presented its green paper on urban mobility in september 2007, and the consultation that followed the adoption of the green paper has shown that there is broad agreement that the european union has a role to play in this area. your resolution on the green paper on urban mobility prepared under the guidance of the rapporteur, mr rack, adopted on 9 july 2008, supports this conclusion. the aim of the book was to prepare the ground for an urban mobility action plan; the decision of the parliament to proceed with its own action plan prior to the commission's proposal sent a strong political signal; that is why i stressed the importance of mr savary's work as rapporteur and also showed how much importance parliament attaches to a work which we must not neglect at all. i am well aware that i am committed to the issue of urban mobility and to the adoption in the short term of an articulated action plan, which i would like to see reiterated, is provided for in the commission's work programme for 2009 and i hope that it can be adopted as soon as possible. savary has said very well, in the course of his speech, that there are within the european institutions resistances because some believe that the principle of subsidiarity, with a gender action plan, would be violated. i do not believe that if we try to violate it, even because we are speaking in latin, we believe that subsidiarity is a word derived from the word subsidium, that is, aid, we must, as a european institution, help local institutions to work better. helping does not mean replacing oneself, but contributing instead to a better solution of problems! without going into the merits of the proposal, i can confirm that our action plan will be based on actions that are ahead of time and will integrate them in a coherent context, seeking to provide the political vision that is still lacking in european action in the field of urban mobility. they should thus provide the policy framework for further action in areas where community-level initiatives are considered useful or even necessary. your report will certainly make a significant contribution to the internal debate and i can assure you that we will take into consideration many of the proposals it contains. naturally, there are aspects and details which require further clarification or discussion. i can assure you that we will consider your proposals very carefully, together with the recommendation of the committee of the regions, after consulting you. the dialogue between us will not only conclude with today's vote, it will be my task, in the further work of the commission, to keep in touch with mr savary and the other members who have been following this transport sector closely in order to be able to adopt a plan on the part of the commission which is in line with what parliament is adopting and which can really be of quality and - i repeat - not to indicate that the commission is replacing local authorities, but only to demonstrate that the commission wants to help local authorities to work better by using an exchange of information and good practices which will enable our citizens to live better and to move better in the cities, outside the cities and through the cities. for this reason, i thank the european parliament for the work it has done and the vote it has given to this plan.
, on behalf of the pse group. i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr gilles savary, and all those who contributed to the final result, for the work done and especially the rapporteur for having continued despite the fact that the commission has indicated that it will not, at least for the time being, implement the action plan we have been asking for so long. i would call on the commission to adopt the recommendations we are voting on tomorrow as soon as possible and to take concrete action. even if a small minority in parliament and apparently also in the commission and in the member states think that we should stay away from anything to do with cities, it is clear that europe offers added value in tackling the problems that are large and largely common. the report contains a number of interesting proposals. of course, the gathering of information, of comparable data, which can help to identify problems. there is the exchange and promotion of good ideas, the driving of technological innovation, the ensuring of interoperability of systems, the encouragement of cities to make mobility plans, the taking of measures to achieve more sustainable mobility. these and other examples clearly concern things that need to be organised at european level to make our cities more liveable, more easily accessible and more sustainable. i therefore count on the commission to take this up and to make it work in the interests of our citizens.
the most important thing, ladies and gentlemen, for a good health policy is that all people should have access to good and affordable health care, preferably close to home. but if only 1% of patients go abroad for treatment, it's all to do with uncertainty about quality and reimbursement. that is why this directive is good news, especially for people in border regions, for patients on long waiting lists, for people with conditions for which there are better treatments abroad. but the right of these patients to receive care abroad should not compromise the ability of member states to organise and finance their health care in a proper way, because that guarantees health care for all. that is why parliament is right to draw some red lines. i'll name three. firstly, this directive rightly regulates only the mobility of patients and not that of healthcare workers. it cannot be the intention to create a market for health services. the report is quite right on this point. secondly, member states should be able to decide for themselves what health care they provide to people and what can be reimbursed. this is very well regulated in the directive. thirdly, the reimbursement of outpatient care should be simplified, but for hospital care and specialised care member states should be able to ask for prior authorisation because it is expensive. so a country that wants to guarantee health care for all must be able to plan for that care. the report, mr philip bushill-matthews, is still not up to the task, because the prior authorization is still subject to too many conditions, which makes it difficult for the member states. i would like to add my colleagues who say that this point is really a tipping point for my group to be able to adopt this directive. finally, i would like to call for a double legal basis, because health care is indeed a public responsibility of the member states towards their populations and cannot therefore be left to the free market alone. hopefully these two red lines will make it to the finish line.
health is indeed becoming more and more important in europe and i think that patients very clearly expect to be given more certainty about their rights, but also expect correct and good information. this proposal on patient mobility is therefore not premature. we've all been waiting for it for a long time. it is therefore a great pity that the man who has devoted a large part of his career to this task has now had to go into hiding himself for health reasons and i therefore wholeheartedly join in the wishes for john's speedy recovery. i would like to concentrate on a number of positive points in the interest of the patient. the creation of a contact point in the patient's country where all information can be obtained, as well as the ombudsman for patients and certainly the increase in scale thanks to better cooperation between member states, certainly add value for patients, especially those suffering from a rare disease. i think that on the delicate issue of prior authorization for hospital care a very creative compromise has been worked out which benefits both the patient and the health insurer. but in order to control the reverse phenomenon of too much inflow, which is important for my region of flanders, the report explicitly states that a hospital can never be obliged to take in patients from abroad if this threatens to put its own citizens on a waiting list. as a resident of a border region between flanders, the netherlands, germany and wallonia, i therefore welcome the request to the commission to designate certain border regions as pilot areas for innovative projects in crossborder healthcare. i think the results of this are certainly instructive for other regions. i hope that the euregio can serve as an example in this respect.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr trakatellis, and to apologize for my late arrival in this debate, while i welcome the group of visitors, who are justifying their arrival a little late. in a hearing on rare diseases, which i organised last year in parliament with eurordis - the european patients' association - i said that it was up to us, that it was up to europe, to set the bar very high for these patients who base all their hopes on research, and that is what our rapporteur has done here by considerably strengthening the commission's text. the small number of patients affected per country and the fragmentation of knowledge across the union make rare diseases the prime example where concerted action at european level is an absolute necessity. we are all united in our desire to know these diseases better, to diagnose them better, to treat them better, to provide better care for patients and their families. there are, of course, the timing and the financing. there are a number of options, and we're exploring them. it is also useful to find other sources of funding besides those provided by the european union or the states. one option that works well in many member states is the public-private partnership. and i would be remiss if i did not mention the considerable financial support that is also provided by citizen mobilizations: the telethon in france, the télévie in french-speaking belgium. the latter makes it possible to double the budget for scientific research - a very small budget, if i may say so in passing: 13 euros per year per citizen, compared with 50 euros in france or 57 euros in germany, to take only these two comparisons. i have no further comment to make. millions of patients in europe are watching us. the will is there. it is up to us to make sure that it is more than a catalogue of good intentions. just one more thing: the liberal group supports amendment no 15.
the trakatellis report points to a number of shortcomings in the council recommendation, and i think that is a correct finding. i am also convinced that the european union needs to take coordinated action on rare diseases. but neither the recommendation nor the report mention the aspect of rare diseases that are coming over from the third world. for example, we are witnessing the return of tuberculosis, a disease which until recently had disappeared completely or almost completely in europe and which is now being re-imported by mass immigration. so here too, urgent action is needed, action in the form of identifying risk areas, in the exchange of information, in the sampling of crossings of the common external borders, etc. it is of course also of the utmost importance that public health should take precedence over political correctness in policy.
in writing. − i oppose the compromise reached between the rapporteur and the council on the rules for access to the international road haulage market. we believe that creating new frontiers and new restrictions on cabotage in the transport sector is not the solution to the problems the road transport sector is facing as a result of the economic crisis. moreover, from an environmental point of view, we cannot accept restrictions such as the requirement that the goods carried in the course of an incoming international carriage have to have been fully delivered before a cabotage operation can be carried out. this is entirely at odds with the reality of road transport and stands in the way of efficient organisation of freight transport. this will lead to more empty trucks. however, i strongly support a very strict approach concerning access to the occupation of road transport operator. if we have strict rules concerning access to the profession we do not need to fear for an open european transport market.
in writing. − patient mobility is a fact, but the necessary legal certainty for patients and healthcare providers is not yet in place. the commission proposal for a directive is therefore a good thing. i therefore appreciate the efforts of mr bowis to reach a compromise on this very difficult matter. his efforts have led to substantial improvements in the commission's proposal. however, i could not support the final report because two points related to the competence of the member states to organise and finance their health care systems were not included. we have called for a legal basis to be established which would allow member states to charge foreign patients the real cost and to make them pay for the care they receive in our country. we have also always supported the idea that member states could refuse patients in certain circumstances, for example in the event of threatened waiting lists. this is particularly important for belgium, a small country with a relatively large influx of foreign patients. the text as adopted today in plenary does not provide sufficient guarantees for this. for these reasons i abstained from the final vote.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge because the committee of the regions in its present form cannot be taken seriously by anyone. the committee of the regions is a highly heterogeneous body, in part because of the vague definition of the term 'regions', which includes not only european nations but also, for example, urban agglomerations. it is also very strange that the regions have been grouping themselves into political groups for some time without any democratic mandate from the electorate.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge because the european fundamental rights office is an unnecessary institution, which is also hostile to the right to freedom of expression.
i would like to take this opportunity to denounce a bit of hypocrisy in relation to the g20 summit. this summit was heralded as a historic agreement, as something incredible, as a step forward, for example in the fight against tax evasion and tax havens. a black, a grey and a white list have also been drawn up. but the hypocrisy of the european union is that - to give just one example - we have concluded an economic partnership agreement with the caribbean countries barely a week and a half before the g20 summit. eight of those 14 countries are tax havens. we are, however, concluding a free trade agreement with such countries, which will ensure that free trade and the liberalisation of financial services are established, with the result that the junk credits and black money can flow freely from such tax havens to the european union. i therefore want to denounce the hypocrisy of a media show, the g20 summit, which claims to tackle tax havens, and a policy which is in practice totally contrary to what is said. i was gonna say this.
the beer report is very general and understandable, because the non-proliferation treaty is meaningless unless it is respected and applied by all states. on the other hand, i think that the report should have referred more clearly to the two specific cases of north korea and iran, because it is very clear that the great threat is from those two states. the european union, together with other international bodies such as nato and, if possible, the un security council, must make clear to totalitarian regimes such as north korea and iran that the further development of nuclear weapons cannot be tolerated. it is of the utmost importance that countries such as russia and china are actively encouraged, if necessary with negative measures, to unequivocally stop any cooperation with those countries in the development of nuclear weapons. if north korea and iran cannot be brought to their senses, then at least they must be isolated from any channels that could help them develop nuclear weapons.
- i'm the reporter. - we have before us the final agreement on which we negotiated with the council and the commission, a final agreement after a first reading in which we as parliament took a very strong position and introduced a number of elements which, by a large majority, actually gave us a strong starting position vis-à-vis the council. i must say that the council's common position a few months after our first reading was rather disappointing. there was not much will to follow our approach and so it was not easy negotiations with the council. but we have taken it a step further and there was a very constructive atmosphere. the parliamentary delegation was also a strong group. there was unity in diversity. i think we can take some pride in putting the result to the vote tomorrow. we are therefore in any case contributing and ensuring that there is a basis for providing, in addition to the two laws on pesticides which have already been adopted, namely the directive on sustainable use and the regulation on the placing of pesticides on the market, a set of instruments in the form of a sound system for the provision of data by means of statistics. so i think this is the basis of the parliamentary, legislative work we have done. it is one of the most important achievements that we have been able to impose on the council, against its will in fact, that we have taken as the basic definition for pesticides the basic definition as previously included by parliament in the framework of the political agreement with the council in the directive on sustainable use. this provides a certain coherence and that is important, also for later use. we have also been able to include a very clear reference to the general framework law on statistics, to the way statistics should be handled, the way they are handled and, above all, the way they will be handled, also from the point of view of confidentiality. we have achieved that the data which the member states have to supply on pesticides are solid and comparable. i would have liked to have gone further, but what we have achieved is a first step. another achievement is undoubtedly the fact that, by taking the word 'pesticide' as the basic definition and the definition of pesticides in the directive on sustainable use, we have also included the term 'biocide' in the directive as a secondary term. that was an important request from the socialist group in this parliament. this is an accomplishment. it is in the regulation, in the current political agreement, even though it says: we are committed to extending the regulation as it stands on statistics and pesticides to include the concept of 'biocides' when that legislation is in place and also - and this was an urgent request from the council - after an impact assessment on the subject. we have achieved greater transparency. we have achieved that the data should be published on the internet. as i said, we have not achieved a number of things either - that is always a matter of negotiation, that is democracy. i have already mentioned them, including the fact that there is a weaker wording on the non-agricultural use of pesticides. in this respect, the draft regulation does not fully comply with the conclusions reached at first reading. anyway, it's a matter of give and take. i have to say, i thank my fellow shadow reporters very much. it was a fun way to work together. this was my last legislative report for the time being in this parliament and i hope that i can add a great deal to it in the next parliament.
member of the commission. − madam president, the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides approved by the european parliament and the council in january 2009 intends to complement the existing legislative framework by targeting the use phase of pesticides, with the objective of reducing the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment. this proposal is the third legal pillar of the strategy, together with the framework directive and the regulation for the placing on the market of plant protection products, and aims at providing reliable data to measure the progress of the strategy. the main objective of this proposal is thus to ensure that comparable and reliable data are collected in all member states and transmitted to the commission, making it possible to calculate harmonised risk indicators and to measure the progress of the thematic strategy. an agreement at first reading on this proposal could not be reached between council and parliament for reasons mainly linked to the scope of the regulation and to the publication of results. thanks to the intense and fruitful trialogue in second reading and in particular to the sense of compromise of the rapporteur and his shadows, solutions could be found for all the issues. the commission believes that the compromise found is very reasonable and meets the concerns of the parliament without creating disproportionate burdens for the national administrations and businesses and it can therefore support it. the commission would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, bart staes, for doing a great job on such a complex proposal, for his patience and for the very constructive exchanges he has had with the commission. on the basis of the current compromise, the commission is confident that an agreement in second reading can be reached between the european parliament and the council on this important proposal to ensure the success of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
- i'm the reporter. - i think we've said all we need to say. it is a good agreement and i hope it will be adopted tomorrow afternoon.
i would like to return to the vote on my report. this was a second reading. all the groups in parliament have reached a political agreement with the council to adopt a number of amendments so that this regulation can actually become a regulation. the mass absence of colleagues - more than 400 are absent - has meant that we have not been able to adopt the package of amendments which require a qualified majority, i.e. 393 votes, at second reading. we have only 387 votes out of the 395 cast. the mass absence of colleagues has caused us to break our agreement with the council. i would therefore ask the bureau and the administration of parliament to see how we can still correct this before parliament goes into recess after 7 may, so that we can still deal with it and rectify it at the next sitting.
the resolution certainly contains some positive elements, such as a call to strengthen the mandate of frontex and to take initiatives for a european internal security policy, which should be complementary to national security measures. i voted against it because i find it totally unacceptable that this parliament, which is supposed to represent the european citizens, is still mordical about the lisbon treaty. the call for proposals to facilitate the import of foreign labour as soon as possible is also, in my view, absolutely unwelcome and, in my view, deserved a negative vote.
in writing. - there are certainly some positive elements in this resolution, such as a call to strengthen the mandate of frontex and to take initiatives for a european internal security policy, which should be complementary to national security measures. i voted against it because i find it totally unacceptable that this parliament, which is supposed to represent the european citizens, is still mordical about the lisbon treaty. the call for proposals to facilitate the import of foreign labour as soon as possible is also, in my view, absolutely unwelcome.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution, but i would like to note that there are also a number of positive elements, particularly as regards the strengthening of frontex and a better, complementary european internal security policy. the main problem for me, however, is that parliament is still mordical about the lisbon treaty as a single-issue instrument. of course, this is not the way to become a step. it is a headlong struggle and in the end only democracy and the credibility of a democratic european project can suffer. i am of course totally opposed to the extension of the application of the 'blue card' system. i feared that from the beginning and that fear has come true. as always, the typical european policy of salami must be shoved down our throats.
in writing. - all in all, this resolution is drafted in balanced terms. i voted against it, however, because a vote in favour would mean support for the lisbon treaty and accession by all the countries of the western balkans. both my party and the absolute majority of europeans are against the lisbon treaty, they should have had the chance to vote, and against further accessions. this parliament may ignore the wishes and aspirations of the european citizens, but i certainly will not.
in writing. - two main reasons prevented me from supporting this resolution. firstly, i think that we are - after croatia, it is true - on the verge of an absolute stop to enlargement. let us first try to keep the union on track and to make it work efficiently with the 25 or 26 member states that are present. the rush forward with new enlargements and an undemocratically drawn up treaty of lisbon is the wrong way round. the next european elections will undoubtedly show once again the great demotivation of the electorate when it comes to european issues. but what is the point of voters finding that their opinions are not being taken into account?
in writing. - i voted against this report. the paragraph which states that european integration is in the interest of the entire population of the western balkans and deplores the fact that the politicians of bosnia-herzegovina are abandoning the objectives of eu accession for short-sighted nationalist reasons, points out that a vote for this resolution would have been a vote for bosnia's accession to the eu. i therefore voted against this resolution, since i believe that europe urgently needs to stop enlargement.
i am grateful to the commissioner and to his colleagues for the extensive information which you have given us. but i'd like to join the trakatellis and maaten. we did have a very extensive debate here in parliament in june 2006. we have passed a resolution. we worked hard on this in the health committee of parliament at the time. i have taken up that resolution again. i have to say that i, like mr trakatellis, fear that there are incredibly many holes, many gaps in the current approach. a very strong recommendation was made at that time to ensure the exchange of information, to ensure good cooperation between the member states under a coordinating role of the commission, in good cooperation with the european centre for disease control. if we look closely, and mr maaten has made this point very emphatically, we can see that there are still an incredible number of gaps. that it's all going incredibly slow. the stock of antivirals; you yourself told us a few days ago that we had 16% in stock, whereas we said we should have 30% in stock. so we're definitely under-the-radar, and we're not even talking about sharing information about the nature of the virus. this exchange of information is essential, because only when the nature of the virus is known can vaccines be developed. scientists i've contacted in the last few days say they have no information, that they can't get to it. information about the nature of the virus is protected, kept secret. with all the research institutes we have, we can't do what we need to do. that's where we're supposed to be. this is unacceptable. the threat is too great.
i would like to congratulate mrs edite estrela on her excellent work. the proposal by parliament to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks, six of which are paid in full, after the pregnancy, is not something that has been made out of thin air. many countries already provide more than 18 weeks for mothers, at 80 to 100 percent of the wage. i do not understand why the ppe-de group wants to reduce our european ambitions to a mere 16 weeks. i would like to say to those who are over-priced that we cannot punish women for becoming mothers. now it is often the case that women have to take other forms of parental leave, but these are not always a right for all women. moreover, the pay is much lower there, which means that this is not feasible for less well-off women. it is also important for us, ladies and gentlemen, that paternity leave and co-parenting be regulated here, because this directive also deals with equal treatment for men and women. a proper distribution of childcare means that fathers should also be granted leave at the birth of their child. two weeks, ladies and gentlemen, is a very modest start, but it is important for those countries where fathers are not yet given any place in a young family. the social partners have not been able to reach an agreement on paternity leave or adoption leave, and so we in the socialist group feel that it is our duty to find a regulation in this directive for fathers and for adoption. i am sure that the majority of this house will support us in that.
member of the commission. - madam president, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs wallis, and the draftsmen of the opinions, mr martin, mr brepoels and mrs mathieu, for their excellent work. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, mr mccarthy, for her positive contribution to this proposal. the agreement at first reading demonstrates the political will of the community institutions to tackle in a timely manner the two main problems associated with the marketing of seal products, namely the fragmentation of the internal market and the need to ensure animal welfare. the agreement contains three key elements: the first relates to the harmonization of the internal market and concerns the prohibition of the marketing of seal products on the european union market. it will apply to both domestically produced and imported products. as you are no doubt aware, seals are the object of hunting activities both within and outside the community. they are used to produce products such as meat, oil, lard, and products from their organs, fur, and skin. these products are traded on various markets, including the community market. for some of these products, such as ω3 capsules, or processed hides, or seal fur, it is difficult if not impossible for consumers to distinguish them from similar products not derived from seals. the seal hunt and the way it is conducted has resulted in a serious reaction and concern from the general public and from many governments that are particularly sensitive to the welfare of animals. these concerns are caused by the way the seal is hunted, the methods used to kill and skin it, and the pain it causes. the public's outrage is evident from the huge participation in the public debate on this, but it is also eloquently recorded in the very large number of letters and appeals i have received over the last two years. citizens can now be sure that seal products will no longer be available on the market. a second important element of the proposal is the reasonable exclusion of the inuit and other indigenous communities. the aim is to preserve the basic economic and social assets of these communities, which have traditionally depended on seal hunting. it should be noted that this type of hunting is a historical element of their culture and cultural identity and a source of income that contributes to their survival. the third element is the exclusion of small-scale hunting activities. this will allow seal fishermen who are engaged in the by-catch of seal, and for the sole purpose of sustainable management of marine resources, to place seal products on the market on a non-profit-making basis and to cover their costs. in accordance with the fundamental principle of this regulation, this activity should not be commercially viable. the commission will adopt, by the comitology procedure and after parliament's scrutiny, detailed implementing measures specifying how the two exceptions will be applied. i hope that parliament, like the council and the commission, will support this compromise package as a whole. the text provides for the harmonisation of the internal market and at the same time responds to the concerns of european citizens regarding the welfare of animals in connection with seal hunting. the european commission is in a position to accept the compromise package in full in order to reach agreement on this regulation at first reading.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - the president, commissioner, you will understand that i am very pleased that we can still vote on this matter, because not only parliament but also many citizens have been calling for measures against this cruel commercial seal hunt for years. it was not easy to find the right angle, because europe as such has no power to ban hunting. i am therefore grateful to the commission for making a proposal to parliament, but parliament has indeed felt that this proposal should be tightened up. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i am therefore very grateful to the colleagues from the various groups for their immediate agreement to my proposal to opt for an absolute ban on the trade in seal products, with the only exception being the traditional hunting of inuit communities. the committee on the environment therefore did not opt for the original commission proposal with the various exceptions, nor for a labelling system which we consider to be uncontrollable. i would also like to thank the czech presidency for its continued commitment to an agreement. i can imagine that negotiations with the member states on this subject have not always been smooth sailing. i would also like to thank the various ngos, in addition to my colleagues in parliament, who have been constructively acting as pressure groups all this time and who are now expressly supporting the compromise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to stress to our citizens that the compromise will have an impact on commercial hunting in countries such as canada. with the prospect of a trade ban in sight, demand for seal pelts has already fallen this year and the price has halved compared with last year. so once the ban is in place, it will certainly deal a serious blow to the hunting and international trade in seal products. i am therefore very pleased with the result and hope for a strong support from the members in the vote tomorrow.
in writing. - i tabled two amendments during the debate in the committee on transport, which concern all transport workers. i believe that it is in the interests of a harmonized social and employment policy in europe that working conditions, and in particular the working people, should be treated on equal terms. the fact of putting selfemployed people in a work directive is unrealistic. it is simply impossible to control the working hours of self-employed people. as far as safety is concerned, all drivers, including self-employed drivers, are subject to the rules on driving and resting times on buses and lorries over 3.5 tonnes. the extension of driving and rest periods would be more important for safety, also for drivers of lorries of less than 3.5 tonnes. the commission should examine this but has not yet put forward a proposal. i hope that the new parliament will take up these proposals.
in writing. - i personally regret that the proposals of the committee, which were very clear, were not adopted by the political groups. the protection of species - particularly under the conditions of killing known here - requires clear measures without compromise. the employment associated with this trade can be easily redirected.
in writing. − belgium became the first european country to ban all seal products in january 2007, followed by a number of other member states. the belgian legislation does provide for an exception for traditional hunting by inuit communities. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is following the belgian example today. the proposal to allow the import of seal products subject to mandatory labelling could not be supported by us. if fur traders from canada, greenland, namibia, and russia are no longer able to sell seal pelts to one of the largest markets worldwide, this will be a huge step forward for the welfare of the species. moreover, a ban is the most effective way of putting an end to the inhuman practices that hundreds of thousands of animals are subjected to every year. i think that a total ban is the right approach. that is why i supported mr wallis' report.
we are, mr president, in fact saying a little goodbye to the czech presidency, which had started off in a splendid way with president klaus' speech in this house. unfortunately, after that speech, virtually nothing substantial was done. if the czech parliament approves lisbon tomorrow, we would be happy to have a dead sparrow. official europe is, however, at a dead end. what we really need is a union which is willing to limit itself to its core tasks and which does not necessarily want to play the role of a great superstate. we are currently experiencing a particularly frightening economic crisis with a huge increase in unemployment within the european union, and it is not over yet. a council of heads of government which does not decide at that moment that, for example, the pursuit of even more immigration and, for example, the potential inclusion of an economically still far underdeveloped country like turkey, are two mistakes, is to me an incomprehensible council, which in any case is making a very big mistake.
i thank you, commissioner, because it seems to me that you must be attentive to this problem, and if i understand correctly it is the member states that have to deal with these problems, but you can also see what can be done. all right, i appreciate your response, and we'll be careful what comes next.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am afraid we may have the same passion in this discussion on democracy in turkey as we had on the wine reform during the second half of arsenal v manchester united, which is a snapshot of europe in 2009. this is more serious, because this is a very serious matter and indeed a very substantive issue concerning democratic development in turkey. first of all i am deeply saddened and shocked by the massacre that took place in bilge in turkey last night, killing 44 people. i offer my sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims and i trust that the murderers will be brought to justice as soon as possible. there is no moral or ethical justification of this kind of horrible attack. let me also express my personal, and the commission’s, sorrow on the death of nine turkish soldiers and a gendarme as a consequence of the terrorist attacks last week. our thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. we condemn terrorism and support turkey in its fight against terrorism. the pkk is on the eu list of terrorist organisations. between 14 and 18 april more than 200 officials and members of the democratic society party have been arrested in a police operation throughout turkey, and in particular in its south-eastern region. we understand that charges brought against them include being a member of a terrorist organisation, although a formal indictment is still pending. we expect to see the indictment finalised as part of a transparent and objective judicial process. the commission cannot interfere in ongoing legal cases. however, our approach is clear: while we support the fight against terrorism, we have consistently stressed that it must be conducted by respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular as regards the freedom of expression and association. political pluralism is an integral part of any democracy. the turkish grand national assembly is today largely representative of the country’s political diversity. the democratic society party has been contributing to pluralism in turkey, and its political legitimacy was confirmed by the results of the recent local elections in march. at the same time, the people of south-east turkey need peace, they need stability and prosperity rather than further violence or confrontation. condemning the use of force and violence is a duty for all parties involved. all must exercise restraint and be committed to peaceful means and peaceful means only. this is also an integral part of any democracy. we will continue to follow up closely the developments of this case. it is essential that the principles of democracy and the rule of law, including the rights of defendants, will prevail. the commission also continues to follow closely the closure case against the dtp currently pending in the constitutional court. in this context, the current rules governing the closure of political parties in turkey are not in line with the european convention of human rights and with european practices, as was recently stated in an opinion of the venice commission. we have requested turkey to take such an opinion fully into account and to reflect it in the turkish constitutional and legislative framework in the form of revisions to this effect. to conclude, we continue to encourage the turkish authorities to address the problems of the south-east of the country and its people, in order to enhance the economic, social and cultural opportunities of all turkish citizens irrespective of their ethnic, religious or linguistic origins. under the copenhagen political criteria, turkey is expected to ensure cultural diversity and promote cultural rights of all its citizens, as set out in our accession partnership. in this context, the establishment of a new trt channel broadcasting in the kurdish language is a step forward. it shows a change of mentality and i want to encourage the turkish authorities to take further steps in this direction. we will continue to monitor the situation in the south-east and will report in our upcoming progress report. that is an essential part of the process of democratisation of turkey.
president. - mr president, commissioner, after the municipal elections on 29 march, in which the kurdish party, the dtp, won a resounding victory - almost doubling the number of mayors from 52 to 98 - it is clear that the kurdish question can no longer be reduced to a socioeconomic issue, as erdogan and his party, the akp, have done so far. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the dtp is not dismantled. in this situation, one would think that a repressive approach is outdated, and yet the turkish authorities have started a large-scale wave of arrests again. more than 400 dtp cadres were detained because they demanded a solution to the kurdish question. my question to the commission is therefore: this is the fifth or sixth party that the kurds have started - currently called the dtp - with 21 mps and 98 mayors - and yet the kurds continue to be excluded. commissioner, if the time had not come for the european union to initiate a mediation between the turkish government and the dtp, the situation would have remained unresolved. in other words, the causes of some so-called terrorist activities must be addressed. i think that the electoral victory of a few weeks ago also proves that the kurdish national spirit is alive and well and that structural reforms for a large degree of autonomy for the kurds must also be implemented quickly. i would also like to draw your attention to another pressing issue on the margins of this debate, namely that more than 1,500 minors are being held in prison and tried in the same court as adults, in total contravention of the international convention on the rights of the child. what action will the commission take to combat this?
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, as mr zwiefka has just said, we are discussing two reports at the same time, which have different scope but the same logic and the same procedure. the first, for which mr zwiefka is rapporteur - and i thank him for his courtesy and patience with some of my requests - concerns a proposal for a regulation on codecision. the second, for which i am the rapporteur, concerns a proposal for a regulation which simply provides for consultation of the european parliament. in the end, mr president, and i agree with you, the problems we are trying to solve through these two instruments are serious and very often truly dramatic. we have all heard or experienced cases where, after the failure of a marriage to a third-country national, a father or, more often, a mother is no longer allowed to see their children, who have been taken by the spouse to their country of origin or elsewhere, and sometimes has no way of knowing where they are. the same applies to the possibility of receiving maintenance payments. clearly, these problems are real, serious, dramatic. it is necessary, urgent and legitimate to try to find a solution, in particular by negotiating bilateral agreements with third countries. so what is the problem that we are concerned about today? how is it that the european institutions have to deal with this problem? the answer is simple. in all these matters, the negotiation and conclusion of agreements with one or more third countries is the exclusive competence of the community. the exclusive community character of these matters is explicitly confirmed both by the opinions of the court of justice and by the opinions of the legal services. which means that what appears to be very simple is actually a little more complex and delicate. the question is therefore whether it is legally possible, in the present state of the treaties and the case law of the court, to allow the member states to exercise exclusive community competence, and if so, under what conditions. personally, mr president, i am not a great jurist. i am not even a jurist at all, but i have not found in the present treaties a legal basis which would explicitly allow the community to relinquish all or part of its exclusive powers to the member states. this means that i have always been very puzzled and very reserved about the very principle of the system proposed to us. that said, i must admit that the opinions of the legal services of our institutions have opened a number of doors. it's very clear. for example, commissioner, the legal service of your institution, which, i quote, 'admits that the exercise of community external competence is legally possible for the member states, exceptionally and under precise conditions, both in form and in substance'. the legal service of the european parliament is much less explicit, but does indicate some possibilities. these very specific and restrictive legal principles have been the basis of the amendments i have proposed and of the negotiations in which i have participated, which took place in trilogue with the council and the commission. i am - i repeat - very sensitive to the tragedies experienced by some of our fellow citizens and i am determined to make a great effort to help them. that is why, in conclusion, i agreed to the compromise negotiated with the council and the commission, but i want to make it very clear, mr president, commissioner, that what is the exclusive competence of the community must remain so. the member states should not, by increasing the number of derogations and extending the scope of application, end up by taking back what is the exclusive competence of the community. that has been my policy and will remain my policy in the future.
chairman of the libe committee. - mr president, it is certainly not on behalf of the libe committee, but more likely on behalf of my group, that i would like to take this brief moment to express my extremely positive appreciation of mrs pagano's report. congratulations, ma'am, on your report. i think that in writing this report you have drawn up an extraordinarily precise list of items which should be placed in a prominent place, commissioner, in the stockholm programme, which i know the commission is actively preparing. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the european parliament. first, the independence of the judiciary. there are at present a number of member states in the union where the independence of the judiciary from political or other authorities is not established. this is a scandal and this scandal must stop. secondly, the procedural guarantees. until we are sure that in a number of countries people who are suspected or accused of having committed certain types of crime enjoy procedural safeguards similar to those existing in other countries, it will be difficult to make the principle of mutual recognition widely accepted. it is a fundamental element and i wanted to bring it into this debate. i'd like to congratulate you, mrs. pagano.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i shall not need two minutes. i believe, in response to what i perceived as a call from the council and a wish from mr zwiefka, that as we have worked well together, as far as i can see, we will have an agreement at first reading tomorrow. so in the voting instructions i will give to my political friends, i will advise them to vote for the text of the agreement we have negotiated with the council and the commission, whatever my personal feelings and what improvements i would like to make to that text. that said, mr president, since i have a little time left, i would like to use it not to talk about our reports but to tell the minister how happy i am that the czech senate has today given its consent to the treaty of lisbon. i think, beyond what we've done as a job, this is the big and good news of the day. (applause) i would like to thank i thank all those who were involved, because the circumstances we all know were not easy. there were strong headwinds in your country. the recent political events have not necessarily made things easier, and i would therefore like to express our thanks, through you, to both the authorities of your country and the people of your country. you have done a great service to the european cause today!
the rapporteur. - mr president, vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the treaty of lisbon by the czech senate is another important step towards ratification of the treaty. it is therefore right that the european parliament should adopt today a number of reports setting out its position on the implementation of this treaty. parliament must be prepared to discuss and negotiate with the other institutions on the implementation and application of the treaty. this is all the more important for the european parliament, because the powers of the european parliament will be greatly expanded under this treaty. it is therefore in the best interests of parliament to be well prepared to fulfil its new responsibilities - as is made clear in the reports by mr leinen and mrs guy-quint - and to be clearly positioned in its relations with the other institutions, which is the subject of my report. the treaty of lisbon strengthens and clarifies the institutional balance within the union. the treaty on european union, which we hope will be adopted, formally ends the pillar structure. the european union also acquires legal personality, the institutions of the communities become institutions of the union and the treaty clearly defines the role and powers of each of the institutions. the treaty also puts an end to the ambiguous position of the european council, which becomes an autonomous institution of the union. the council has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the powers of the council and parliament are, moreover, identically formulated in the treaty. in this way the treaty strengthens the so-called community method, it transforms it into the method of the union. this method is also extended to the former pillar of justice and home affairs. in my report i stressed that the effective functioning of the institutions requires strong coordination of legislative and budgetary work. the committee calls for legislative programming, including the multiannual budgetary perspective. the role of the general affairs council within the council of ministers is very important, and it must become the real instrument of the council presidency in its dialogue with parliament. the commission's position as initiator is also clearly confirmed; the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas. this will make a strong internal organization of the commission all the more necessary in order to function as a college. an important new chapter is that on foreign affairs, external affairs and security, where the dual role of the new high representative and vice-president of the commission will be crucial. in my report i stress that it has every advantage in working closely with the commission to mobilise all the union's resources in foreign policy. in conclusion, a short remark: the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would again like to say - and i cannot understand why this has not happened yet - that there should be consultations between parliament and the european council to see how we are going to organise this period. if not, we risk being left in a period of great uncertainty after the elections as to what exactly needs to be done. no one benefits from that. let us make clear agreements on this.
- i'm the reporter. - the proposal for a regulation (com (91) 0406 - c3-0310/91) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the common organization of the market in bananas (com (91) 0406 - c3-0310/91); but i think it is also important that on the eve of the elections parliament should take a clear position and in such a way that it can continue to negotiate this treaty in a strong position. i thank all the members for their support and i would also like to emphasize how complementary the five reports are and that they do indeed form a unit in that respect which defines the position of parliament. i would like to end where i ended my first intervention: i remain concerned about the situation after the elections, about the transition from the treaty of nice to the treaty of lisbon. i continue to advocate that we should try to reach some agreement on this before the elections between the council and parliament. if not, i fear that after the elections we will be in a rather confused position in which no one has anything to gain. these agreements must be so clear that parliament and the council know what they have to abide by during this difficult transitional period.
- i'm the reporter. president. - i have a technical point to make. i understand that amendment no 1 was not intended to replace the text but to add to it. it is in that sense that i have agreed to the amendment. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the whole commission for the very good cooperation and to stress the importance of good interinstitutional cooperation within the framework of the lisbon treaty from the outset. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all congratulations from the liberal and democratic group on your election. i can tell you that you have the full support of the liberal and democratic group for the forthcoming years in your work. your work, from our point of view, means the creation of a more integrated european union and a european union that uses the community method. you have become president at a very difficult time: we have to ratify the lisbon treaty; we have to find a single strategy against the economic and financial crisis. it is a huge task in which you have the full support of our group. you should know that you have behind you a large pro-european majority in this parliament. you should be aware of that. (applause) the only request we have is to use it, this large pro-european majority. to go forward with europe and also to say what you have to say in the european council, that you know so well – as i do. i hope that you can make your voice heard there and have more ‘europe’ in that institution also. (applause)
mr president, i am very sorry, but for the sake of clarity, since we have no billboard and have tried to follow you very quickly, could you please read the names and the votes a little more slowly?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to say to mr reinfeldt that our group of liberals and democrats will fully support the priorities of the swedish presidency, namely the ratification of the lisbon treaty, which we naturally expect to be implemented swiftly and in full, the preparation of the climate summit in copenhagen, which we have already mentioned, a priority which we fully support, and finally the stockholm agenda. moreover, and this is the subject of my speech, mr reinfeldt, i would like to mention a theme which is discussed here in every speech - the fight against the economic and financial crisis - to tell you that you are taking over the presidency of the european council at a very specific moment. it is good that sweden is chairing the council because you have specific experience in this area. sweden experienced an economic crisis in the 1990s similar to the one we are experiencing at european and global level. you've had a real estate crisis. you also had a financial crisis in the 1990s and you solved all these problems by tackling the problems of the financial sector directly. my message to you is to do exactly the same thing today at european level because that is what we are lacking. we are trying to combat the economic and financial crisis by 27 different approaches in different countries, which will never work. we expect you, mr president, to use your experience in sweden, because it was a success, unlike japan, which entered into economic stagnation for a long period. sweden got out of the crisis because you immediately tackled the problems in the financial sector, which is not what we are doing in europe at the moment. it is thought that the british can nationalise the banks while others can recapitalise the banks, in france for example. in germany, bad banks are being created. in the benelux, we do a little bit of all of that at once. the result is that there is no one-size-fits-all approach. the american people are cleaning up their banks and eliminating toxic products while we continue to have problems. i therefore ask you to use your experience to present a single plan to rescue the financial sector in europe, which will form the basis for economic recovery. without this, there will never be an economic recovery, the banks will not start lending again, etc. that should be your top priority. the second point is that we hope that you, together with the commission, can also present a new recovery plan, because 27 different recovery plans will not produce the necessary results in the coming years. it is absolutely essential that the council and the commission together take the lead in this. i know there are now 27 recovery plans at national level, but we see a number of protectionist measures inside those national plans. it is your responsibility, mr reinfeldt, to tell your colleagues that a better way to deal with this is, together with the commission, to devise one single recovery plan and to invest in sustainable energy and in the new economy. i think that, with your experience in sweden during the 1990s, you are the right man in the right place to do what we have not done so far: devise a single strategy in the european union to combat this economic and financial crisis. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i think we are at a crossroads with europe. the lisbon treaty, the copenhagen climate conference and a forceful response to the financial and economic crisis. these are the three major issues which you will be facing in the next six months, and if we get this right, we can really make a quantum leap forward with europe. you know that a large majority of the european parliament is ready to go along with that and i would say, with a thud, let the critics, let the barking dogs stand by and make noise. you can't let that distract you from your mission, from your purpose. i think we should concentrate on the essentials. let me pick one out, mr. secretary. it is crucial that we focus on one of those top priorities, namely an offensive plan for the future of the automotive industry in the european union. i think that we have had too little or no such plan up to now and that you agree with us on this. it's certainly not too late for that. the opel rescue plan is in full swing and the demons of protectionism are not from the world, they are not from europe. they're slumbering beneath the surface. and swedish society is as much involved in this as we are, the belgians, the french, the germans or the slovaks. we're in the same boat. the point is that we should now tackle this in a way which is solidarity, not individualism, and not trying to catch each other's flies. i think that you have a unique opportunity here, mr president, to work with the president of the european commission - and this is a clear signal to the commission as well - to draw up a joint plan, mr barroso, a joint plan for the future of our car manufacturers and to bring them into the 21st century. we believe that this energy-efficient and environmentally friendly car can also be produced in the existing car assembly plants in europe today, and we count on you, mr barroso and mr reinfeldt, to stand by us.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in the middle east. iran is also located in one of the most sensitive areas in the world. for all these reasons, but also out of pure humanity, nothing that happens in iran leaves us indifferent. the european liberals are not in favour of forced regime change. we do believe that all the peoples of the world, including the iranian people, should have the right to elect their own leaders and replace them when they no longer comply. under the current regime in iran, elections do not meet international standards for free and fair elections, and the latest presidential election was no different. but even within iran's strict restrictions, large sections of the population have not accepted the official results and have taken to the streets in protest. the very partial revision of the results failed to convince the iranian people and so the protest continued. that protest was violently suppressed and the persecution continues. we strongly condemn these persecutions and call on the iranian authorities to put an end to them immediately and to release all prisoners. the persecution of foreign journalists, ngo staff and iranian staff in foreign embassies in tehran must also be stopped immediately. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. it is therefore particularly tragic that these dramatic developments are taking place at a time when the president of the united states is showing a willingness to open a dialogue. iran is missing a historic opportunity to take on the world stage the place that its history and culture deserve.
mr president, the outbreak of violence in the autonomous province of xinjiang is being severely repressed by the chinese government. the clashes between uighurs and han chinese have officially claimed 186 lives, but the blood is still flowing. this violence is being portrayed by china as a simple inter-ethnic conflict between the han and the uighurs, when in fact it is the almost inevitable outcome of its repressive policy in xinjiang province. the province is strategic but difficult to control. it is a vital transit route, rich in natural resources (gold, oil and gas) and essential to china's energy future. but it is populated by many non-chinese ethnic groups, the largest of which is the uighur. these, almost 50% of the population, are mostly sunni muslims of turkish origin. for a decade they have been systematically discriminated against, threatened with assimilation and extinction and their identity is in danger. in reality, china's policy towards these ethnic minorities was liberal in the 1980s but it gradually hardened and the chinese authorities took the opportunity of september 11, 2001 to display their struggle and see amalgam against terrorism, separatism and religious extremism. in april 2009, amnesty international issued a real cry of alarm: after tibet, there will be xinijiang. the policy of non-violence having failed, the uighur separatists would look for other ways to achieve their identity claims, and that is done. but china cannot continue to maintain its cohesion through repeated bloodbaths. as a signatory to international agreements, it is obliged to protect its ethnic minorities. and its constitution and its 1984 law on regional autonomy also oblige it to do so. will europe still turn a blind eye and simply condemn the repression and unsuccessfully plead for the release of political prisoners? no, i'm not going. human rights in china are a political issue and we must dare to remind china of its own commitments to its people and the risk to the international community of evading them. we shall be waiting for a strong gesture from the swedish presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and the two other commissioners for their work. it wasn't obvious. i wrote a letter on 3 august, because what has now been announced was already in the air at that time, and i received a reply from the president of the commission. there were no new elements in it. today, at least, i heard a clear commission statement from mrs kroes, who said that in any case a thorough investigation of all the details will be carried out in this case. i would also like to ask, mrs kroes, that this examination be carried out not only on the basis of state aid but also on the basis of the rules on competition, mergers and acquisitions. because we are not only dealing with state aid from the german government - 4.5 billion euros! - but we are also dealing with something that is mergers and acquisitions. the competition rules are stricter than the state aid rules. i would ask you - you have spoken mainly of state aid in your intervention - to examine both elements in the investigation, because in the case of mergers and acquisitions, internal competition between the various branches of the company concerned obviously plays a very important role, whereas state aid is mainly concerned with the conditions of competition between companies. i must say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that a case involving 4.5 billion euros of state aid, with a private contribution of only 500 million, is a real eye opener. is that another rescue operation or is this a, yes, i would almost say, nationalization operation; however, there are indications - and it would be good if the data on this were collected as soon as possible - that the plan drawn up by magna with the german government is not entirely driven by economic motives, but also by political motives. this should at least be clearly stated in the study. i would also ask, commissioner, that that investigation should at any rate start quickly - i agree with mr langen 100% - and that the data should not come only from the person who is doing the takeover, because a dossier submitted by magna to the commission will probably prove what it is supposed to prove. it is difficult to imagine that the dossier which magna is going to present, i would almost say, simply indicates that in other words the competition rules have been violated. i therefore think that the commission, in the exercise of its powers, should itself request information from the various member states involved, great britain, spain, poland, belgium and, of course, germany, so that the investigation can be carried out in an objective manner. i also believe that the study now being carried out is of exceptional importance because it is going to set a precedent for a whole host of other restructuring measures that we will be facing in the coming years during this economic and financial crisis, and which must be subject to the same conditions. that is my first point. my second point is that i personally think that the commission has failed by not immediately taking up the matter. i think that it should have been done months ago - the first communication from the commission was in february. i think that the commission can act immediately on a matter of transnational restructuring and that it was not a good decision to leave it to one country. european solutions are not being worked out by one member state, european solutions must be worked out by community institutions. i therefore believe that the commission should have played its part more effectively and more quickly in the field of industrial policy. thirdly, i think that it must come up with a general restructuring plan for the car industry quickly, because 35% of excess capacity cannot be eliminated simply, unless there is a general european approach.
mr president, a senior magna official confirmed a few hours ago what we had feared or already known, namely that the antwerp plant would close irrevocably. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a bit of talk for the common man and it seems to be a trick for the time being to keep the workers and the many people involved in antwerp in good standing. i think that the european commission should not actually do what it has announced in this whole dossier, in particular wait a little longer, counting the beats a little longer as a spectator. i think that action must now be taken and that the commission should say, now more clearly than before, that its approval of this takeover dossier will be made conditional on the requirement that the buyer may only use objective economic criteria if and when remedial action is needed. it is therefore necessary to ensure complete clarity and transparency as to whether or not the various establishments have competitive reports and whether or not the commission has had access to these reports. it is well known that the antwerp plant is very competitive and i think it would be unacceptable for the massive support from the german government to lead to the most competitive plant being hit. the fate of many thousands of workers in my country is at stake in this matter, but also, and again, i fear, the credibility of the european commission, and i am not optimistic about that. it is the same song, by the way, quite often, as commissioner špidla has pointed out: the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. that was the case in the recent banking crisis. i am afraid that this is also the case today in the opel crisis, where german governments are primarily serving german interests.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, the announcement by magna, the new owners of opel, that they are likely to close the antwerp plant is remarkable to say the least. because we know by now that the opel plant, one of the most profitable, one of the most efficient plants within the general motors group. and yet they want it closed. so there is a lot of evidence that this decision was not made on purely economic grounds. that is why, mr špidla and mrs kroes, we ask you today two things: firstly, that you will still use and use your ironclad competence in the field of competition to ascertain whether the large-scale state aid promised in some member states is indeed compatible with european rules. mrs kroes, you were right to commit to an inquiry. i hope you will have the opportunity to do so thoroughly, and at the same time in the short term, to avoid facing a fait accompli any time soon. i think it is not an exaggeration to say that the credibility of the european commission is at stake here. economic nationalism and protectionism have no place in this europe of the 21st century and this is a very good dossier to prove it. mrs kroes, you have a reputation for being a lady of steel. we hope that you will also make your reputation on this matter stronger and ensure that the authority of the european commission is not undermined. that's not ironic at all. secondly, europe must absolutely come up with a new industrial project for the automobile sector. we must not look back, we must not look at missed opportunities. we have to look ahead and invest in this new technology of the new electric car. it's not too late. if we do that now, we can ensure that the new electric car is made with european technologies and that in the future we do not drive electric cars made in china. that's a scenario we can still perfectly avoid.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. joy and fear are emotions that are kind of overwhelming me today. i am glad to hear the statement of the two commissioners, mr spidla and mrs kroes, who are a bit reassuring. on the other hand, fear: the statements made by the purchasers, magna, are not really of a nature to give us any real peace of mind. i would like to make a number of points on a number of points which have been raised in the debate. mrs kroes, mr špidla, yes, be men and women of steel. indeed, make sure that all the rules are followed in a proper way. indeed, on state aid - i have to agree with mr verhofstadt where he says that the investigation should be extended to the whole of competition law, to the whole of merger and acquisition law. i think he's right about that. i agree with mr langen. where mr langen has very explicitly said: this has to be quick. what could be done quickly for the banks must also be done quickly in this acquisition dossier, in this dossier which is so important for thousands and thousands of employees. i would like to refer to what mr špidla said. he says there's overcapacity in the sector. of course it is. he said: we've used a number of methods to correct that. he mentioned the globalization fund. there have been seven requests. but let us also realize that this globalisation fund is not working very well. tomorrow we will be discussing a dossier, a report by mr böge, which clearly shows that of the 500 million available to us in 2009, barely 8 million have been used. so we should use those resources to help those workers for training, for reorganization, for development that really goes in the direction of a green new economy that is low carbon and less fossil fuel based.
madam president, your party leader, mr westerwille, has said that this package of aid to opel is intended, among other things, as an element in the electoral campaign. i hope, of course, that this is not the case and i hope that the restructuring of opel will be subject to the normal rules of business and that we will not end up in a situation of having our own car factory first. i have full confidence in commissioner kroes, who will look at all aspects of this deal. she is known as someone who can put her heels in the sand, she has proved that in the netherlands many times, and will not be afraid to make clear statements. i do have a question to her regarding the role of sberbank, the russian savings bank. i wonder what kind of role this is and whether it will lead to some of the opel production eventually going to the russian federation, since the sber bank is actually a continuation of the government's economic policy by other means. finally, i would like to say to mr staes that on the one hand he is surprised that this company is in danger, but on the other hand he is in favour of a very strong anti-car policy. the car gets safer and cleaner and still gets blamed for everything. the car is the boheman and the motorist is the person who is squeezed out of the tax system and often also by a policy advocated in this house. a car, ladies and gentlemen, is freedom. for many people with a small purse, an opel is a car they can buy. unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly difficult for these people to buy a car like an opel, and as a result, car production is falling. so i think that we can't say on one side: we are surprised that this is happening, and that we are on the other side in this house of an anti-car policy. my party is in favour of the car, as mr verhofstadt knows.
president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, commissioner, for your statement. unfortunately, i do not share the optimism of many of my colleagues, including the commission's statement. it is true that we have received bad news today about the antwerp plant, and it must still raise many questions - hopefully also from the commission - that this very plant, which is very productive and has very good workers, should be closed. or perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, it has to do with the fact that the establishment is located in a small member state or a smaller member state and in a particularly small, but economically performing region. the commission is now beating itself on the chest over the work of the past few months. i'm afraid i don't agree with that. you have a role, and i support your role, a very formal role in defending the interests of the european union in its treaties, its competition rules, its state aid rules. it is necessary, necessary and, again, i support the commission in the research it has to carry out in this area, because that will be crucial and important. but why didn't you do more? why have you not taken on a strong political role, for example by including ideas on restructuring in the discussions you had with the member states? the european trade unions, for example, have been and are still supporting a restructuring which also includes the word solidarity, in particular by ensuring that the burden is shared between the various branches. i would ask you - and this is my main question to the commission - what you are going to do immediately now that we have the worst news about opel antwerp: what action will you take to ensure that the people, the workers of antwerp, also have a future?
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i think it is clear that the european car industry is not escaping reality either and that it is urgently necessary to eliminate excess capacity. but the question is, of course, how credible opel is going to be in saving when it has already promised to keep its most expensive factory, the german one, and to close an economically well-performing plant, such as opel antwerp. indeed, this scenario was formally confirmed this afternoon by magna ceo wolf at the frankfurt motor show. several speakers have already mentioned that there are serious indications that magna has made concessions to the german authorities that are not directly in the interest of the industrial plan in exchange for state aid. i think the european commission should put a stop to this before it is too late. mrs kroes has already expressed her concern, but i think more needs to be done. the commission must, above all, state very quickly how it will ensure that the european competition rules are also respected by germany in this dossier. if it does not do so, i believe it will set a bad precedent for all future crossborder restructuring operations, which will always be competitive with the smaller member states. why is the commission not at the helm of the negotiations with gm and magna itself instead of just germany? i also hear that tomorrow the german government intends to sit down with the other european countries to see how state aid can be coordinated. this seems very cynical for flanders, and very clearly figs after easter, and i would like to ask whether the commission is also involved in this.
madam president, i would like to make a number of remarks. firstly, until now, public aids to the motor vehicle industry and the action taken by the member states and the commission have been characterized, on the one hand, by an approach which i would call defensive and, on the other hand, by a short-term approach. i think that, for example, the massive bonuses for scrapping that we have seen have actually anticipated and artificially inflated demand and i think that it is now that these bonuses are ending or will end that we will see how much they are feeding an illusion. demand cannot keep up with supply. we would therefore like to encourage the commission to be much more ambitious in its approach. i believe that two main lines should be given priority in the case of public aid in particular. first, the implementation of sustainable mobility solutions in europe requires the talents and skills of workers, from engineer to worker, in the automotive sector. the first priority is therefore obviously to promote the maintenance and development of these skills in industry or in related industries. i also believe that much more conditionality is needed in public aid compared with what we are doing. in other words, it is not enough to say "we will continue to do as before". i believe that public aid should be conditional on an acceleration of industrial transformation. i agree with what mr davis said. i would like to conclude by replying to mr eppink, who of course claims that we are against freedom. what is happening in the market is that fewer and fewer of our citizens are falling into this "my car is my freedom" model. it is not enough to walk on the roads of belgium or the netherlands to realize that we have reached the limits of the system.
madam president, commissioner, we are actually looking to you as the arbiter in this case. i have understood correctly, therefore, that we will soon no longer have an opel plant in antwerp. perhaps a factory which will then be subcontracted to some other brand, and that is of course a very uncertain future. i find it particularly difficult as an antwerp resident to accept that for months we have been convinced that the choice is not made on the basis of purely economic arguments, but because germany, the german government, can put a very large amount of tax money on the table. so we are looking to you as an arbiter to see whether this is true and to see whether the arguments here are really only economic and commercial and that the right of the budgetary strongest or the political strongest has not prevailed. when your investigation is complete, please come and explain to us what you have found. because we have not heard much, or heard nothing clear, from the companies involved. so we're counting on you to give us insight into what the arguments have been from the people involved. i would therefore like to hear from you why antwerp, my city, is the hardest hit, because for many people in our community this will be a sign of the confidence they can have in the european commission and in the union itself.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like many here, i am very concerned about the fate of opel and the people who work there or make a living in that area. there is now a decision in principle to take over, but in the last few days and hours statements have been made here and there, sowing much confusion and uncertainty. this is a discouraging situation for both workers and those in the supply sector and it must be clarified quickly. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. what concerns me in the european context in this matter is magna's message that only the antwerp plant would be closed, whereas studies are circulating which show that this antwerp plant does indeed have business advantages. i cannot therefore avoid the impression that multinationals are playing member states against each other or, conversely, that member states are using state aid to influence the selection of whether or not to close establishments in a way that distorts competition. if that were true, then, in addition to the economic crisis and its painful social consequences, we would also have a crisis of institutions, of the credibility of institutions, and people would lose all support. i therefore urge, as i did in a written question in february, that the commission really use all the means at its disposal, means to prevent the victims of the opel accidents from being left to their fate, but also means at its disposal to really open a formal investigation into the use of state aid. this is in the interests of objective treatment, of a transparent treatment of each of the establishments and the people around them, because people must be able to count on the european union to carry out its core tasks, even in difficult circumstances such as today, to take it seriously and that there is no room in europe for two measures and two weights. this is the real litmus test of the credibility of the institutions, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, and we are counting on you to do so.
madam president, the preliminary outcome in the opel case contains good news for some people, but above all also a lot of bad news for the thousands of people who are going to lose their jobs - i understand from antwerp as well, as was announced this afternoon. that is not to mention the suppliers, where a great many jobs will also be lost. there are as many social dramas, and i believe three things are important. firstly, the commission must now use all its powers to ensure that the adverse effects of the announced restructuring are dealt with fairly and objectively. this is essential for the credibility of europe and to avoid giving people the impression that there are two kinds of workers. secondly, the commission must now devote all its energy to helping to provide a new future in those places where jobs are going to die. thirdly - and i think this is the main lesson we must learn - we need a more proactive commission, we need a european industrial policy, a vision of the challenges, the opportunities and the way in which problems are tackled from a european perspective, and this for transnational industrial sectors such as the automobile industry.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, madam president of the committee on development, i am of course very aware that in this type of debate we are bound to see a series of repetitive speeches. but i'm okay with that. i think it is important to repeat this strong consensus that the european parliament must build, together with the commission. because, after having said that the developing countries would be little affected by the financial crisis, all the experts now agree that, on the contrary, the effects of this crisis will be catastrophic for most developing countries. all social sectors in the poor countries will be confronted with a significant increase in social needs, particularly in services, and a very significant decline in growth. in this respect, i very much appreciated, commissioner, that you referred to the need to respond much more flexibly to these needs and, as i think you know, i have always been a strong supporter, where possible - of course under conditions of sufficient control - of public aid and direct aid, either direct or sectoral, but budgetary aid. i think there is an effect of appropriation, an effect of respect, much greater, and it gives the states the means. despite all this, i note that the g20 has not discussed the reform of international financial institutions - i am thinking of the imf and the world bank - to take better account of the interests of the poor countries of the south. as the president said, 80% of recent imf loans went to european countries and only 1.6% of these new loans are for example to african countries. the resources promised to the developing countries in the g20 package will not be sufficient - we also know this - and will not be sufficiently focused on the weakest countries. more importantly, these resources will not arrive fast enough. the real challenge, commissioner, as you have clearly seen, is to force the member states to honour their 2005 commitments. there is no justification for a reduction in official development assistance. however, several european countries - as has already been said - have announced drastic cuts. i am thinking of ireland (less than 10%), i am thinking of italy (less than 50%), i am thinking of latvia (less than 100%). it is obvious that this attitude is absolutely unacceptable. she's also irresponsible. i'd like to hear your views on a number of issues. i have heard your positive reaction to the vulnerability fund that the world bank is proposing to create. you also responded positively to the fight against tax havens. the countries of the south lose a trillion dollars every year in illicit transfers to the north, 350 billion of which pass through tax havens. the question of international governance, we have discussed it. i think that we should also focus on aid for trade. i am a strong supporter - unlike some people i know - of economic partnership agreements, provided, of course, that the specific situation is taken into account, that transitional periods are introduced and, above all, that the european states respect their commitment of the famous billion euros a year to help trade. i think that is obviously important, as has been said. what is needed today is to denounce the double-speak of certain member states which, at the same time, speak highly of the developing countries, make enormous promises, but at the same time, cynically, reduce their official development aid.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you on behalf of the alde group for your inaugural speech. you have published a programme in which our group can identify fully. i have already said this to you, mr president, when you were elected, and i am glad that you have become president of parliament, not only because you are a symbol of the enlargement of the european union, but also - and i should like to emphasize this - because of your commitment to solidarność. solidarność has achieved three major things. first, it gave the people of poland a voice, it brought democracy to the entire former eastern bloc and it also fundamentally changed europe. it has turned a divided europe into a united europe. so you have, mr president, the perfect experience - as your speech showed - to achieve, in the coming years, three ambitions with the european parliament: to give the european citizen a greater say, to make the european union more democratic, and thus also to promote european integration. i think it is appropriate, ladies and gentlemen, to point out, in connection with president busec's inaugural address, that the eurobarometer survey shows that of all the institutions of the european union, citizens have the greatest confidence in parliament. this is a difficult task for all of us, because it means that we must not betray that trust and that we must therefore make the voice of the citizen more heard in european decision-making. i think that, in view of your speech, mr president, we are faced with a double challenge. on the one hand, we must apply the lisbon treaty and put it into practice as soon as possible. in this respect we must, as you have suggested, negotiate with the council presidency as soon as possible in order to make some adjustments. secondly, mr president, i also think - and this is the other side of the challenge - that we must use all the levers available to the european parliament to further extend its powers. we have done so in the procedure for appointing the president of the commission, but we must continue to do so in other cases, wherever possible. the most important point i see in this, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must have a new budget for europe and the european union in the coming years. i think this is a great opportunity for the european parliament to advocate, to demand, that it be a budget based on the european union's own resources and own revenue, because this european parliament will only be a real parliament when it also has full control over its own revenue which it will be able to collect in the future. (applause from the left) here is an important task for you, mr president, to fight that battle together with this whole parliament. you will have the full support of our group, because we all know, especially in these times of economic and financial crisis, that it is not nationalism, it is not protectionism that will help us out of our difficulties or guarantee our future, but that only a continuation of european integration is a solution for the peoples of europe and for the citizens of europe. in any case, good luck to you, mr president. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as you know, from the very beginning of this nomination procedure the liberal and democratic group has said that what is at stake here is the programme for the next five years, that it is not a question of persons or personalities. that is what counts: the programme that the candidate presents, the one he is presenting now in outline, and then the detailed programme, which will be presented towards the end of the year, i hope, when the commission is final. secondly, at the request of some colleagues, our group also had a long debate on whether we should wait before taking a final decision. we supported this in july, because we thought it was necessary for the candidate to come up with a programme, which was not the case in the past. i think it was a good decision to do that, to wait until july, not to name names and to wait for the proposals we are going to discuss now. but we felt that once the candidate had presented his guidelines, it made no sense to say again "we'll wait a few weeks, a few months". we are going through an economic and financial crisis, so we need european institutions and we need a commission. it's not very responsible ... (applause)... it's not very responsible to say today "let's wait!". wait for what? in two weeks, in three weeks, in two months, they come with proposals? they're here. let us take our responsibilities, whether we vote for or against, but let us take our responsibilities. thirdly, we were not very convinced by the guidelines that were presented by the candidate. i believe that these proposals, however detailed they may be, are based on a wrong philosophy, namely the assumption that the recession is over, that the recovery is here and that we do not need additional community policies to get out of the crisis. this is a bad place to start, because the end of the recession doesn't mean the beginning of the recovery. we may fall into economic stagnation, as is the case in japan, where for 10-15 years they have waited for growth, hence the need also for a new integrated community strategy which goes beyond the 27 plans at national level. that is what we as liberals and democrats want, and it is also necessary that the commission should present as soon as possible a plan to clean up the banks. not 27 different plans, as is the case today, but a common, coherent approach, tabled by the commission. i have heard, mr barroso, that you said in our group that you were prepared to put forward proposals both for this new integrated community strategy, which goes beyond the 27 plans at national level, and for this european clean-up of the banking sector. this is a positive step and we are asking that these two elements be detailed and elaborated in the programme which you are now preparing and presenting with the commission. our support is very clear. he's on probation for the rest of his life. that means that our support will continue until we see that in the whole commission programme these elements are going to be found, that is to say a new integrated community strategy, a plan for the recovery of the banking sector, beyond the things you have repeated today in your speech, a budget which is based on own resources and also the mid-term review of financial supervision. i must say that i still think that the architecture of the european central bank should be used for this purpose and not the larosière proposals, which are currently the starting point for the commission and the council. finally, our support will also depend, as you know, on the new structure of the commission. we want a commission which is efficient, with powers better distributed than in the past, and in this context we also count on the promise you made to our group that a special libe commissioner, with responsibility for fundamental rights and civil liberties, will be given a place on your team. it will be important that this commissioner be co-responsible with the other commissioners, and not just someone who gives them advice. that is why, for the common european good, we need a more daring commission with more ambition, and we hope that you will do that and that you will also, in your final programme, meet our expectations.
mr president, there is a saying that if you are not at the table, you are on the menu. the next decade will decide where europe is going to be. the current leading generation in western europe had a holiday from history. we grew up in peace. we grew up in a welfare state. we made debts and passed them on to our children. but history is knocking on our door. we will have a sluggish economy for years to come; we are facing mounting immigration and are sustaining an ageing population. unfortunately, europe does not have a culture of achievement. the european dream is to retire to the french riviera as soon as possible. if we do not innovate and develop an entrepreneurial culture as you designed, europe will be on the menu. i count on your leadership. may i give you one piece of advice: keep europe focused on its core task. if you fail there, you will fail everywhere. remain open-minded and do not propose a european tax because it will provoke a pitchfork revolution against europe. i have never seen a demonstration in favour of a european tax. it is simply a bridge too far and you will only feed public anger. i count on your sense of realism to get europe at the table and not on it, and i wish you good luck in your second term.
president, president of the commission, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in difficult times, times of transition, times of change, exciting times too. institutionally, we're on our way from nice to lisbon. i hope we get there in one piece. we are in the midst of a complete transition in all these areas: financial, economic, ecological, demographic, energy, migration and security, not to mention globalisation, the food problem, the struggle to preserve our social model. are they threats or opportunities? that depends to a large extent on us. one thing is certain: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. we have no time to lose - my neighbour said just now that we must hurry - and that is why we must make a new commission work quickly. at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we have one candidate for president, and only one. we must have confidence in josé manuel barroso. i would also ask anyone who thinks otherwise to make sure that he is not mistaken for the enemy, because what do you buy by procrastinating and voting against? if you don't want barroso, who will? i ask the greens and the social democrats who your candidate was and who your candidate is. if you succeed in your endeavour, are you sure that you will have a better candidate, a better president of the commission? mr president-in-office of the commission, you have my confidence, my vote and that of my colleagues. i wish you every success, including the formation of the new commission, which must be given the space to work quickly.
i have abstained from the final vote on the resolution, mr president, although with some reservations and some doubts, because of course there are many positive elements in the text, things that nobody can object to. i am thinking, for example, of support for measures to strengthen the civil protection of the member states through the exchange of experts and working methods. we have seen again this summer that some forest fires have reached such proportions that cooperation is necessary, but that cooperation between member states is already taking place. it can of course be further developed, but one can ask what is the use of, for example, a separate eu reaction force. this is simply a drain on the resources of the member states, creating a new eu institution with its own staff and additional bureaucracy.
in writing. i supported mr barroso's candidacy for the commission, as did 381 of my colleagues. for a variety of reasons, not least of which is that some people may be giving the candidate a particularly unfair trial. i hear each other dreaming of a new delors, forgetting that we have changed the world... and europe. the 12's, kohl's and mitterrand's are not and will never be a possibility. first president of a commission of 25 and then 27, mr barroso had the delicate task of managing the 2004 enlargement. a consolidation warrant. the second will be that of ambition. i want to, and i want to give him credit for it. and refuse to play the sorcerer's apprentice game, waiting, not for godot, but for some hypothetical candidate other than the council has no intention of advancing. we must wait, we must weaken our institutions and the credibility that europe still enjoys with europeans. so yes, we will wait for the government to deliver on its promises, such as tackling climate change, discrimination and the urgent need for a concerted response to the economic and social crisis. to postpone this vote once again would have been to miss the target. waiting for a phantom nomination would have been a mistake.
in writing. - i voted against the reappointment of mr barroso as president of the european commission because for the past five years he has been the symbol of a commission which has ignored the democratic rejection of the lisbon treaty in a particularly arrogant and contemptuous way. barroso also repeatedly called for new mass immigration and consistently downplayed the problems surrounding turkey's potential accession to the eu. it is also significant that yesterday barroso refused to answer the right question of a british colleague about his intention to appoint a european commissioner for human rights - internally for the eu. big brother europe is marching, but apparently no one can know, not even members of parliament.
in writing. let's say it right away, preventing natural disasters, adapting to climate change is not easy. and although the european union is doing rather better than other regions of the world with the creation of a strengthened civil protection mechanism and the financial boon of the solidarity fund, no less than 600 000 hectares are destroyed every year. and i am only talking about the forest fires in the mediterranean basin, with the peak being the one in the summer of 2009 in the highlands of athens. two proposals seem to me essential to improve the situation. firstly, the michel barnier report of 2006 on the european civil protection force must be fully implemented. we are still waiting for the european green helmets to be set up to give substance to a european policy of civil protection which is popular with the citizens. secondly, it is important that the commission has a right of view on what is happening locally. it would be surprising to say the least that european subsidies are being paid when some forest fires are probably of criminal origin and have no other purpose than to make the land suitable for building.
in writing. − i abstained in the final vote on the compromise resolution on the aftermath of the 2009 forest fires. i note that the majority of this parliament is of the opinion that combating forest fires at european level should not be limited to support and coordination, but that a genuine european fire brigade should be set up, another european institution which will cost a lot of money to do double work. it is, in any case, an illustration of the fact that the eurofederalists are less concerned with managing our continent efficiently and judiciously than with making a "statement": the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the agenda calls for debate on the oral question to the commission on the crisis in the dairy sector by paolo de castro, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-0085/2009 - b7-0208/2009).
madam president, commissioner, yesterday in wallonia more than three million litres of milk were spilled by farmers who were disappointed by the worst crisis in the sector. they get only 19 cents a gallon. there's a crisis because of an overabundance of milk supply that drives down prices. deregulation causes volatility, and the market reality of yesterday is completely reversed today. commissioner, stop sticking to the options we took last year and take account of the reality on the ground today! the council is also guilty, first of not being there to listen to the debate, but also of not deciding, because it is more motivated by purely national interests than by a european vision of agriculture. the deal's not working. there's too much production. it would be so easy to freeze the 1% increase in quotas, or even to immediately reduce the same quotas by 3 to 5%, because there is an urgent need to consider short-term solutions. if we adopt this measure, we will achieve two things in one fell swoop: we will restore a decent price for producers and, by reducing production, we will reduce the european bill by hundreds of millions of euros in various forms of intervention, including export refunds.
president. - i am sure that our lithuanian friends would have thought otherwise. having freed themselves from the yoke of the soviet union, they wanted to join as soon as possible that other union which nevertheless likes to imagine itself as a unique alliance of free nations. but now, once again, it appears that one custody was simply replaced by another, albeit a more subtle one. lithuania is no longer free: the lithuanian parliament, when it adopts a law aimed at protecting minors, is denounced and banned for it. no area is still free from european interference and this will certainly not improve in the coming years. on the contrary, the new european commissioner for human rights - what's in a name - will strengthen european guardianship. i am grateful to you, mr verhofstadt, and to the other commission mandarins, for this asphyxiation of freedom.
in writing. a wake-up call: this is the substance of our resolution, which calls on the commission and the council to take urgent measures to get out of the crisis which is affecting milk producers. a crisis which took on a new dimension yesterday in belgium with the dumping of 3 million litres of milk at ciney by more than 2 000 producers. the debate is cut short if we simply attribute the blame solely to the removal of quotas. that is why i opposed amendment no 28, which is too simplistic and calls for a freeze. the main causes are elsewhere: falling demand, unbridled global competition and above all, as many consumer associations denounce, unacceptable margins in the distribution chains. this is what led me, in paragraphs 17 and 18, to ask the commission to investigate possible cartels. it's about his credibility. i have, however, supported amendment no 1, which takes up the initiative of 16 member states and calls for a balance to be restored between the various players in the sector. i am personally in favour of a minimum price for milk being set in each country.
in writing. in anticipation of the vote on the resolution on the crisis in the dairy sector, i had proposed and supported amendments aimed at regulating the milk market in the short term, in particular by freezing the increase in quotas or even by temporarily reducing them (from 3% to 5%). all these measures have been rejected by the european parliament. the producers are entitled to expect parliament to propose the radical measures they need. despite some positive points, this resolution does not meet these expectations, which is why i abstained in the final vote.
author. - mr president, i shall take the short time i have to explain the position of my group, which did not sign the joint declaration and which is presenting a separate resolution. i would like to say, first of all, that we fully agree with the joint resolution concerning natalia estemirova, zarema sadulayeva and alik dzhabrailov. we have been shocked by these new murders, which are in fact just another murder among others of human rights activists in chechnya. we have asked in our resolution exactly the same thing as in the joint resolution, that is to say that we condemn the attack, that we ask for an investigation, that we are concerned about the deteriorating climate of human rights for activists in russia. where we differ is on the extension given in the joint resolution to all human rights defenders and to the situation in the north caucasus in general. we think there may be other places for this - and i am committed to doing so - in particular in the resolution that will precede the eu-russia summit. we want this agenda of human rights activists and the defence of human rights activists to be part of this resolution, but also of all the negotiations we will be undertaking with russia. so it's simply here, and i'll make it clear, a timing problem and a place problem. this is a political issue that must be dealt with politically and not just here in the er. that is why we preferred to make a distinction, but of course we are in full agreement with the other groups on the substance of the matter.
author. - mr president, i must confess that i am both perplexed and rather sad and disappointed. why are you confused? because, without a doubt, in terms of international relations, syria has come a long way in the last two years. it has joined the union for the mediterranean. it has on various occasions acted as a mediator in difficult international situations, most recently in the case of the arrest of a young french woman in iran. i would say that the fact that the association agreement, which has not yet been signed, mrs brantner, but which could be signed in the near future, the fact that this association agreement is being revived is, at the same time, something very positive. internally, it is true that there are also very good sides in syria. they've taken in a million and a half iraqi refugees, they're taking care of them, they have a high level of education, they have freedom of worship, which is important. however, there has been no progress in terms of political freedom and political pluralism. there has been, and continues to be, and i deeply regret it, the repression and imprisonment of human rights activists and defenders, and we have intervened on many occasions in recent years for the release of its political prisoners. twice we managed to get them released. but there are still people in syrian prisons like al-labwani, al-bunni and now al-hassani. i would therefore like to send a message to syria: we are here and we are eager to bring syria out of the isolation into which it has been placed at one point. we believe that it is an important player on the international scene and in particular for peace in the middle east. but please, for her own image, and i think she is strong enough to accept political pluralism and human rights defenders in her country, please release political prisoners, respect the convention against torture, as we have said, and against degrading treatment! it is in the interest of syria and it is in the interest of peace in the world, and in particular peace in the middle east.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, last friday was a really historic step: 67% of the votes. you can change all the constitutions in europe with a two-thirds majority; i think a two-thirds majority is also necessary in sweden. we have to thank brian cowen. i also especially thank pat cox, who did a great job, and all pro-lisbon irish meps because they conducted a tremendous campaign in favour of the treaty. so i am happy. the reason is that we started this whole exercise in the aftermath of the nice treaty, with a declaration in laeken, and it has taken eight years – so i promise not to restart this whole process, mr president. with this irish ‘yes’, all the citizens of europe, directly or indirectly, by a referendum or by their parliaments, have said ‘yes’ to the lisbon treaty. that was also a message to the eurosceptics who were always saying ‘no – the people are against europe, against the european institutions’. sixty-seven per cent of the irish population: what we saw on friday is a clear message to the eurosceptics. we have to ask everyone to take his or her responsibility so the lisbon treaty can enter into force as quickly as possible. now is the time to bring this process finally to an end. with this irish ‘yes’ we know that the lisbon treaty will be brought into effect; we know that, because it was the last hurdle. but we do not know when it will come into effect, and i think that is the problem we have to discuss this afternoon. what do we do in the mean time? we know that we have to wait until the constitutional court of the czech republic has spoken. as you said yesterday in le monde, in the worst-case scenario we still have a few months to wait and i think that nobody in this house can tolerate the fact that the union will be a lame duck in the months to come. we can accept that the commission will be dealing with current affairs because after 31 october it should be dealing with current affairs. we need action and we need action urgently. therefore, mr reinfeldt, president of the council, my invitation to you is to initiate, as fast as possible, the procedure for the nomination of the commission. three weeks ago we voted for the president of the commission with the argument that the current crisis does not allow us to postpone a decision. that was your argument. so the same argument applies now to the nomination of the commission. it is not necessary to wait: a new commission is possible with the present treaty, with the present status for the high representative and then, once the lisbon treaty is ratified, you can smoothly install a high representative with another statute and a president of the council. there is really no reason to wait to proceed with the commission. this was also the aim of the president of the commission if i understood him correctly when he spoke a few minutes ago. i fear that i hear you saying ‘no, i am waiting; i am waiting because i want a global package, a global package including the president of the council’. i say that is not a problem: prepare your global package. prepare it now, and the decision on the council president can be as political as the decision that you took on mr barroso the first time. you presented him as a candidate by a political decision, not a formal decision, because we asked to formalise it afterwards. you can do exactly the same with the president of the council and then, once the treaty is ratified, you can formalise the whole package. then you change the statute of the high representative: he becomes vice-president of the commission. at the same time the political decision that you take on the president of the council now can be put into practice; you can then formalise it. that is the best way, the best pressure that you can put on those other countries that have to sign: formalise it, because they know that we want to go forward. and we do not still have to wait for several weeks and months. in any case, you have said that there is no time to waste. i agree with you: there is no time to waste with this current economic and financial crisis. put the commission together now, as fast as possible. convince your colleagues in the council and take your decision on the high representative on the basis of the present treaty. pick one of the candidates – i have seen there are enough candidates – for the president of the council and go forward with it.
any euphoria about the second referendum in ireland is totally misplaced. the victory of the yes camp is a stolen victory, because the original referendum was perfectly legal and carried out according to the rules. the majority of those who voted 'no' in 2008 understandably felt that if they did not fit into the eu's box, official europe would never take their views into account. so many of those voters stayed home. eu democracy works in only one direction. there was no fair campaign. the dominance of the 'yes' camp in the media was further increased by a 16-page letter from the european commission in all the sunday papers, an illegal expenditure of taxpayers' money on which the last word has not yet been said. they've scared the voters. the economic crisis has been used as a lever to force the people to vote yes. i predict to you, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, that sooner or later your hocus-pocus propaganda will hit you in the face like a boomerang.
mr president, a few days after the positive referendum in ireland, i really feel that we can say that we are more european today than we were before. i'm really, really, really looking forward to it. unfortunately, we are still largely dependent on the decision of the constitutional court, but also on the goodwill of the czech president. we must send a clear signal of responsibility to those who hold in their hands the future of this treaty, which is so important for the union, for our institutions and for the 500 million europeans we represent. we can no longer be held hostage by a few whose sole aim is to thwart the general european interest. if it is legitimate for some to wish to go no further in european integration, if it is legitimate to express reservations, it is also legitimate to allow those who wish to go further to make progress. in general, the ratification processes of the european treaties too often take the form of saga or pyrrhic victory. are we condemned to constantly having to force the implementation of a treaty and its institutional reforms? we must learn from this chaotic ratification process and also, of course, from this commitment to negotiations for a second referendum in ireland, as if it were normal to have a people who have expressed themselves in a sovereign way vote again, and as if it were normal that a consent to a treaty could be a bargaining chip. it is a question of the institutional coherence and balance of the european venture. ratifying a treaty is a minimum requirement of loyalty and cohesion from the moment one chooses that one's country should join the european union. we wanted to send a strong signal to the citizens by getting the treaty ratified for the european elections in june 2009. what do you think the public thinks today of the lisbon treaty and, beyond that, of our internal coherence and legitimacy?
mr president, i take advantage of the floor we have in this minute to draw attention to the positive consequences - as everyone in this house knows - of the irish people's positive vote on the constitutional treaty, which means that, in particular in a committee like the agriculture committee, and in this parliament, in its plenary, we will have codecision. parliament will therefore be on an equal footing with the council, which is obviously a huge step forward in democratic terms. i should like to take this opportunity to point out that since our irish friends have massively voted yes to the constitutional treaty today and the polish president - as the president of our parliament has just said - is also about to sign the treaty, all that is needed is the czech president's 'yes'. i would therefore like all our colleagues from the various political groups to try, within the framework of our respective powers, to convey to their czech counterparts the idea that this treaty really needs to be signed, especially since the czech parliament has already said yes. the president has only to sign this document and thus open the way to democracy in his country, so as to advance our democracy in europe.
mr president, on monday, and no one will have missed it, milk producers from all over europe demonstrated again in brussels to express their despair and their distress at the collapse in the price of milk which is preventing them from continuing their activity. more than that, it's their future that's at stake here. the call for a new form of regulation is now supported by a large majority of member states, the dairy g20 as it is now known. i think that now more than ever, and with the greatest urgency, we must take a decision, and most certainly at the next formal meeting of the agriculture ministers, which will take place on 19 october in luxembourg. we don't "commission", as we did two days ago, a crisis of this magnitude. very quickly, two questions to president buzek, which i hope you will convey to him. i have heard that he met this morning with cecilia malmström, the swedish minister for european affairs, and i would like to know whether she was able to confirm to him the commitment of the presidency to find an urgent solution to this crisis, in line with the resolution we voted in strasbourg at the last part-session. finally, i come to this high-level group, this think tank which was also launched the day before yesterday. before the next treaty of lisbon comes into force, and as soon as it does, our parliament will become a co-decision-maker, a co-legislator. i think it would be consistent if we were involved in the work of this high-level group.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the financial crisis. the chairman of our committee, mr brian simpson, has already referred to it: 77 bankruptcies, although mainly smaller companies since 2000. so that means many thousands of people who somehow saw the money for the ticket go up in smoke or were left to their fate. it is feared that in these difficult economic times for the aviation sector, others may follow in the future. so we have to do something. it is true, of course, that the member states must also play a role in monitoring the creditworthiness and financial health of airlines. that is true, but it is up to us to develop a european protection mechanism to prevent stranded travellers from being left out in the cold. we therefore call on the commission to speed up the work on a concrete proposal, and indeed - you have referred to it - there are already systems in place through all kinds of other legislation - including for people who book package tours - in the form of a guarantee fund, etc. so there is a certain inequality between people who book a flight through a tour operator and others who book a ticket online. it seems to me that's something we need to sort out, too. i understand you're busy with stakeholder hearings. you want to submit a proposal in the course of next year. i think we should really try to act a little faster and not wait until the end of next year, but perhaps look for a solution a little sooner. so let us quickly talk about a concrete legislative proposal so that we can have a discussion on the practical modalities of a form of bankruptcy insurance. finally, i am very pleased to hear from the commissioner that there will be some sort of general communication on passenger rights in the air transport sector. we know that the current legislation is not fully and uniformly applied everywhere and not in a good way, so that calls for our attention and we will certainly come back to that.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, is right when he says that the european parliament is not the place to settle disputes between political parties within the member states, nor to oppose decisions of national parliaments. the problem in italy - and i believe mr napolitano, the president of the republic, is quite right - must first be solved in italy. but, and this is the problem, mr daul, is that no one can deny that there is a problem in europe and in italy. my problem with your intervention is that you're denying there's a problem. (applause) mr napolitano is right. i think you are right to stress mr napolitano's words too, but it is not a good thing to say here in this chamber that there is no problem. why do i say that? because freedom house recently published a study in which the countries of the world are divided into three categories with regard to press freedom: free, partially free, and not free at all. and it should be noted - and i think it's a huge problem - that three countries, not just one, not just italy, but also romania and bulgaria, were classified as "partly free". we are all the more concerned, really concerned, that one of the founding countries of the european union is among them. since we have created this european union to defend once and for all our common values of democracy, peace and freedom, it is our duty to intervene. how can you do that? i think that the commission should be asked, on the basis of our treaties - and i repeat, this is a request that has already been made - to propose a directive to safeguard media pluralism. that is what this is about and it is a competence which can be exercised with the european parliament under the treaties. and this directive should ensure that our constitutional provisions on media freedom are fully and harmoniously respected in all countries of the european union, and certainly in all countries in question. i must also say to you, mr president, and i will end with this, that i was disappointed by the commission's intervention. each member state can do anything if it is compatible with the constitution of the country. that is what we have heard from the commission. i don't agree with that at all. i object to that. there are values, there are freedoms that must be defended in this chamber beyond the interests of nations, beyond the constitutions of nations. (applause) these are values and principles that really correspond to the nature of the european union. i therefore ask the commission to review its position and to propose a directive on the issue of concentration in the media as soon as possible, and that for all the countries of the european union.
i am glad to say, mr president, that i am not the only one who is asking very serious questions about this rather foolish initiative, which is apparently designed to brand italy as a country where freedom of information is fundamentally undermined. the socialists seem to have a problem with the fact that there is at least one european member state where the politically correct left does not yet control all the newspapers and all the media. berlusconi's italy - and i am weighing my words carefully, because i have nothing to do with berlusconi - is a model of freedom, of free speech and of a multifaceted press in comparison with many other european countries. our colleague verhofstadt, who has just attacked berlusconi mercilessly, is well known and notorious in his own country, my country, for his threats and his personal interference against journalists who were critical of his government, even very recently. he's the last person who should be allowed to speak in this room. what i would have liked to see from the commission was an initiative to restore freedom of expression and freedom of information in all the european member states where they are very seriously threatened by laws that are anti-freedom, often under the guise of combating racism. i am thinking of an initiative by the commission when, for example, a dutch politician was not even allowed to enter another european member state, great britain, until very recently. or i could give the very recent example of my own country, where my party, vlaams belang, the second party in flanders, is discriminated against by the public broadcaster, which is paid for with taxpayers' money. discrimination which was only very recently condemned by the highest judicial body, the council of state, as electoral fraud. yes, there are many problems in europe with freedom of information, and they are by no means all in berlusconi's italy. - no, it's the opposite.
i voted against this report, mr president, not because i am against the exchange of information between national authorities on criminal proceedings. it is good to check whether parallel criminal proceedings are being conducted in other member states for the same facts. i am, however, quite openly opposed to the federalist approach contained in several amendments. for example, amendment no 3 explicitly denies each member state the right to decide for itself which authorities are competent to act. i am certainly not against eurojust, but we must not allow it to become a 'super-institution'.
madam president, i continue to be amazed at the hypocrisy and the inconsistency of this parliament. on the one hand, this resolution rightly states that it is a pity that the best and most talented people are leaving the developing countries and that this brain drain is harmful to their economies. on the other hand, this parliament, from left to right, supports the european blue card and the european reception centres for legal migration in africa which are the very ones creating and continuing such a brain drain. experience shows that so-called circular migrants are staying in europe. but there are many other reasons why i voted against this resolution, such as the call for ever more european development aid. if europe is to play a role in development cooperation, it is that of coordinator between the member states and not that of donor.
in writing. it was important that the european parliament send a clear message to the world's leading leaders following the g20 summit in pittsburgh. this is done with the resolution adopted today which recalls that while the worst of the financial crisis is behind us, the budgetary and employment consequences will be felt for a long time to come without joint action by the european union, the united states and china. they have already taken decisions on the reform of the imf, the regulation of traders' bonuses, the capital requirements, transparency on complex financial products, as if the g20 had not been in vain! however, at least three major areas of work remain open to progress in the control of globalisation. the first is to really tackle tax havens, the amount of money that is missing from the coffers of the states. the second is to avoid a monetary storm in the absence of a rebalancing of exchange rates and with the continuation of competitive devaluations. the third is to tackle the volatility of commodity prices, especially food prices, which is contributing to the worsening of imbalances and poverty in the world.
in writing. - i have approved with satisfaction the resolution tabled by the committee on development and cooperation on the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the use of tax havens, tax evasion and illegal capital flight from developing countries. the imf has rightly increased the financial resources to combat the financial and economic crisis. but it is a matter of grave concern that, to date, 82% of these funds have gone to europe and only 1.6% to africa. the time has come to give the fight against poverty the highest priority. it is also essential that economic partnership agreements (epas) are used in such a way that the countries concerned obtain trade advantages and that these countries are also able to exclude certain vulnerable products and sectors, such as investment and services, from the negotiations. i regret that the amendment calling on the commission and the member states to submit proposals for innovative financing mechanisms, such as a financial transaction tax to supplement official development assistance, was not adopted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i have the impression that we are debating the sex of the angels here, while our european external borders are as leaky as a sieve. this is not so much due to the absence of efficient evaluation mechanisms, of course, but certainly to the fact that there is no political will on the part of the governments of most member states and the eu itself to monitor the external borders effectively. we all know that there are member states which are unable or unwilling to guard their external eu borders against illegal immigration. we all know that there are governments that are undermining the whole schengen system by the mass regularisations of illegal aliens. i am referring to the zapatero government in spain, but also to the italian government, the dutch government and, last but not least, the belgian government, which is now preparing to regularize a mass of new illegals, thereby throwing the whole system into disarray by allowing these regulated illegals to settle wherever they want within the european union.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report of mr simon busuttil, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european community and the republic of mauritius on the short-stay visa waiver (com (2009) 0048 - c7-0015/2009 - 2009/0012 (cns)) c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17/c17
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on the state of play of sis ii and vis.
the s&d group. mr president, climate change is responsible for more than 300 000 deaths a year. it affects 325 million people and more than 90% of those affected, more than 90% of the deaths are in developing countries. the economic losses due to this climate change are estimated at over 125 billion dollars a year, and, again, 90 percent is borne by developing countries. these countries are being hit by the financial crisis, climate change and the deeply unequal mechanisms of unbridled capitalism that is plundering them globally. so what are we asking for? firstly - and it is true, as you have said, i am addressing the council here - broad and sustainable action on climate change, that is to say a new and more ambitious kyoto, and that is why the copenhagen summit in december is so important; secondly, an increase in financial aid in relation to the commitments already made so as to reach 0.7% of gdp by 2015; and, finally, thirdly, the legal protection of these new environmental refugees who are beginning to arrive. what are we gonna do with it? where are we going to turn them back if they want to enter europe? in libya, as proposed in this trade agreement which i invite you to consider, mr de gucht, what is the next agreement we will have with libya? it is essential to establish decent planning and management of environmental migration flows and to close the legal gaps affecting the protection of these refugees. i think our responsibility is immense because it is much more than solidarity that we feel, we really have the future of this planet before us.
president of the alde group. president. - my question will not surprise the president of the commission. on friday, commissioner neelie kroes announced that there was significant evidence that german aid to opel was in breach of eu state aid rules and the internal market and that it had harmed businesses in other countries. günther verheugen, on the other hand, saw no problem. by the way, he said on the radio that opel is already on the right track. yesterday a cdu colleague of ours even asked for mrs kroes to be withdrawn. he spoke of a very controversial commissioner, an unobjective commissioner, an anti-german commissioner who cannot put europe on its feet with two weeks to go before the end of her term. now, i think mrs kroes is simply doing her job, and my question to you, mr president, is very simple: will you support your commissioner neelie kroes? - yes or no?
president of the alde group. i have no more questions. i only note that the president of the commission here very clearly states that the letter sent by mrs kroes has his endorsement and has the approval of the whole commission. that is important, because then mr verheugen will have to be careful what he says when he says that there are no problems. it's one or the other.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − madam president, i am honoured to speak on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. year after year, we see how section iv of the budget is severely underfunded. year after year, we also see that, as the year progresses, the commission and the council have to resort to a variety of specific measures which are not in tune with regular budgetary methods in order to finance the needs which we all knew were there right from the beginning. the situation in palestine is, unfortunately, one of the best examples of this. having said that, i do note some positive elements. i see that the baltic sea strategy got some extra money. i also see that the appropriations have been increased for a number of specific policies in favour of democracy and human rights. i want to conclude by saying that, especially for the year 2010, we will need to pay attention to the fact that probably – and hopefully – the european external action service will start to operate. we will need to provide the necessary funds for that.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, how can democracy be brought to a people? well, by building on civil society, by strengthening it, by fighting poverty and exclusion, by empowering women. europe was not naive enough to believe that democracy was being brought about by tanks and bombs, even though some states may have fallen for this illusion. europe must therefore assume its role as a soft power. it's a thankless and difficult role. it has a european instrument for democracy and human rights which is now like a newborn. it's fragile, but it holds promise if you take good care of it. ngos can present projects without the support of their government, and that is important. but it is also the very limited budget of this instrument that funds election observation missions, essential missions which, in about ten years, have managed to assert themselves, but for which parliament has already asked for more resources, more monitoring, certainly - thank you, madam - but also more political coherence in monitoring their legitimacy and here i fully support what mrs joly has said about some of our missions. it is not right that a country which is beginning to democratize by voting should not be supported in its consolidation. democracy is expensive, those who see the short term may think. less than war, certainly, and it's data that the foreign office will certainly incorporate into its operations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, ‘the train has already travelled so fast and so far that i guess it will not be possible to stop it or turn it’. that is a quote from president klaus and it is probably the only time that i agree with him, that the train has already travelled so fast and so far that it is not possible to stop it or turn it. this is a major quote from president klaus, because apparently it seems that he has accepted the fact that nothing can delay the lisbon treaty any longer. i think it is normal that if 27 member states have ratified it, and have approved it, we can also now have his signature. i think that this change in his attitude can only be explained by our and your determination to go forward with the whole process as foreseen in the lisbon treaty, and we have to continue doing that in the coming days and weeks. i hope days, not weeks. in other words, the best way in my opinion to secure president klaus’s signature and the final ratification of the treaty is simply, mrs malmström, to go forward with the whole process and with implementation. he is saying that the train has travelled so fast that it is impossible to stop it, so you have to continue with the train. in that respect, it is absolutely necessary that the council speeds up the procedure for the nomination of the new commission, and puts forward as fast as possible the package for the president of the council and the high representative. i repeat that this is the best way to show president klaus that he is right, that the train is running faster and faster every day, and that there is no other option for him than to put his signature under the treaty. if you wait, he will wait. if you go forward, he will sign. that is my opinion. my second point is about the external action service. i hope that the council can reach agreement on that, but not any agreement. we should avoid duplication. my fear is that we are creating two parallel structures at the moment: one is the commission and union delegations, as in the new treaty, which today amounts to more than 6 000 people, local staff included, working for the commission and the president of the commission. the other is a new external action service with several thousand people working for the high representative. at the end of this whole process, it is absolutely clear and necessary that we have only one structure dealing with external affairs and not this parallel structure of commission delegations on the one hand, and external action services on the other. i hope that we have an agreement in the council, but i also hope that it will be an agreement in which it is very clear that there can be no duplication in the commission structures, with commission delegations on the one side and the external action service on the other.
in writing. mr president, we expect that the economic crisis, and more specifically the situation at opel, will also be on the agenda of the forthcoming european summit. the takeover of opel and the massive national state aid promised is more than a test case for europe. it is about the credibility of the european commission: it must ensure that no unlawful state aid is granted. it is unacceptable that healthy, profitable factories are closed down because the member state in which they are located can give less state aid than another, larger and more powerful member state. we should also learn from opel: it is not too late to set in motion a coordinated european strategy for the automotive sector. cars21 was and is a worthy plan, but it's not enough. europe must come up with a strong roadmap that dramatically accelerates the development of the sustainable electric car. we must bring the european car manufacturers together. and we must also concentrate resources from the seventh framework programme in that direction. it is time to get off the defensive and send a positive signal to all those workers in europe's largest industry.
i am also very pleased that the resolution has been voted down, mr president, because it is unacceptable that this parliament should be used for political agitation against a particular politician. it is equally unacceptable that parliament should be seen as a kind of european big brother, a supreme inquisitor who interferes directly with a matter which is a matter for the individual member states alone. those who draw the lessons from this against a supposed threat to freedom of information in italy, a threat which is entirely imaginary, are the first to advocate muzzle-loading laws aimed solely at the political liquidation of dissenters. this left-wing hypocrisy is shocking. if there were half as much freedom of information in belgium as in italy, we would have made a great deal of progress.
in writing. − the surprising outcome of this vote will hopefully create the space for a real debate, a debate on the problems threatening media pluralism in europe. we are absolutely in the clear for such a debate. we all know that media freedom is under pressure in several member states (see the latest press freedom index report, released yesterday by reporters without borders). however, it is essential that we tackle these problems at the root and develop a tool that can improve the situation across the eu, so that journalists can do their work without being pressured by private or political stakeholders. some in this house would rather throw it over a national arch and settle internal national accounts. it's a good thing that strategy didn't work. because that threatens to stifle the debate in its infancy. we must now put aside national games once and for all and invest our energies in structural solutions to a problem which in the long term is a real threat to our rule of law and to democracy in europe.
in writing. as a former journalist, i abstained on all the proposals and amendments put to the vote on wednesday. i would like to strongly denounce the partisan political instrumentalisation of a debate as fundamental as that on freedom of the press. a fundamental right which, by its very nature, can in no way be the object of political bargaining and left-right fighting! italy is concerned with violations of press freedom and this is totally unacceptable. but have we interviewed bulgarian, romanian and french journalists? have we thoroughly investigated the political or economic interference that exists in other countries of the union? how do we ensure in our own countries that politics does not interfere with newsrooms and their editorial content? if we had carried out a more detailed study, with a new report, we could have supported our resolutions in such a way as to enable them to achieve their objective in the most appropriate way: freedom of the press in the european union! i think that this fundamental right deserves much more investment than the one that has resulted in texts that have all missed the essential point.
in writing. i consider the debate on freedom of the press to be very important. the situation in italy is worrying, but it is up to this european parliament to debate this issue in general or all the countries which have problems in this area. to mention only italy, while knowing that problems exist in other countries too, for example in romania, bulgaria, portugal, hungary, is partisan debate which does not contribute to freedom of expression and the press.
mr president, some of my colleagues have found it necessary to try to give us lessons in democracy in their speeches. i would therefore point out that both in the committee on constitutional affairs and in the committee on foreign affairs, where i was able to draw up the opinion, we made sure that the discussion and vote on our respective texts did not take place until after the outcome of the irish referendum had been known. this is out of respect for what the irish people would say. fortunately, they said yes, because they could have said no. we have taken this into account, and we have also taken account of the european summit meeting next week. we had to get to discussions and texts in a very short time. the same colleagues who want to give lessons in democracy have, of course, also complained about this. but this aside. we are living in a very important moment today. our texts, which express our views on what the future european external action service should be, herald a new era for the european union. those of us who have been following the evolution of the union for years, who remember the first modest steps in the field of foreign policy, let alone security and defence policy, of the treaty, first of maastricht, then of amsterdam, may have thought, as i did then, that what we are experiencing today would never happen, that it would never be possible to lay the foundations of a common european diplomacy. those of us who have followed closely the evolution of ideas in this field will also remember that not more than a few months ago some of our national diplomatic services were not at all prepared to accept a kind of big bang, whereby all the current delegations would be brought under the authority of the future high representative from day one. i am very pleased about that. from my own political and governmental responsibilities in previous political lives, i know that nothing will be easy. but we are at an important juncture and i hope that we shall be able to adopt this report by a very large majority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate and thank mr brok for the excellent and even outstanding report he has presented to us. the creation of this new external service is an opportunity not to be missed. parliament must have a say, not only in the budget, but also in the overall architecture of this service. this service will have to have a genuine sui generis status, as has been said. we cannot renounce such a status, which is in accordance with the spirit of the treaty, otherwise the result would be to arouse the suspicion of certain states. i'm thinking particularly of the younger ones or the new ones. we also need to focus on the core of the external service's mandate, set the strategy and political priorities, create the coherence of external action. it is essential not to fall into the trap of duplication between the external service and the commission delegations, but to develop a specific service which will have to generate added value from the common external action. the external service must be fully in line with the commission. it cannot become or inspire intergovernmental drift. i would also like to add that the profile of the high representative vice-president is obviously decisive for the added value of this service. finally, mr president, the development competence has its own purpose - we agree on this - but at the same time it is an instrument of foreign policy. it would be naive to deny it. one solution could be to keep the development programme in the hands of the commissioner for development, in agreement with the high representative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, the election of president obama has been hailed, rightly, as a victory for american democracy. but the recent nobel peace prize award has put him under pressure. peace in the middle east? we hope so, but he's far from the master of the game. peace in afghanistan? the american strategy has a free hand here, but if president obama listens to his hawks, he risks a new vietnam. in a sure sign, gordon goldstein's book, which describes the dramatic chain of events leading to the failure of the vietnam war, is torn from washington and no copies are found. the president must now choose between two strategies: one is focused on stabilization, poverty eradication, economic development of afghanistan by ensuring a military presence, but also a civilian presence, throughout the country. the other is to concentrate on a few urban areas and launch large-scale operations against al qaeda from there. both options call for troops, but the first is directed at the population, the second at war with the risk of disaster in the background. is it not up to europe to protect barack obama from the old demons that haunt the united states and to help him choose the first of these strategies that is geared to the population? at least that is what my group thinks.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, as we know, this week most of our member states are launching the first wave of vaccination against influenza a, while at the same time it is clear that little progress has been made in the same area of access to the vaccine for developing countries. it has just been said: millions of people, and above all children, die every year in these countries from a whole series of pathologies, to which my colleague mitchell referred earlier. i am not saying that the solution is simple, not only because the question of access to vaccines is not quite comparable to that of access to medicines, with at least two specificities: the small number of producers and the control of the cold chain which remains difficult. there are positive elements, however, the fact that, for the time being, the virus does not mutate and the announced availability of 3 billion doses each year. these are obvious and compelling elements which support the establishment of a global strategy. in the limited time i have, i conclude, mr president, that the european union must therefore fully support the who's call for a fair distribution of vaccines, with priority in high mortality areas, and that we must also create the conditions and encourage the development of private and public partnerships to combat the shortage of vaccines in the world effectively.
in writing. i voted in favour of this proposal for a decision which aims to update the basic salaries, allowances and benefits of europol staff. the report therefore seeks to adapt their remuneration to the increase in the cost of living in the netherlands and to changes in salaries in the civil service in the member states. this support is all the more necessary now that europol has become an agency of the european union financed from the community budget.
in writing. as regards the inclusion of milk under article 186 and the quota buy-back scheme, i am pleased that the implementation of this decision has not been postponed to a later date - something that some may have feared at one point because the milk year (which runs from 1 april to 31 march) is already well under way! i am in favour of the measures suggested, but i would like to go further: they are still far from being sufficient, especially since the ball is once again in the court of the member states and national financing when it comes to buying up quotas. moreover, these are medium and long-term measures. but there is an urgent need for community action in the short term. this is essential: expectations on the ground are very high. finally, in the context of article 186, it will be necessary in future to ensure that the mechanism is renewed annually, giving the commission the possibility of automatically renewing this measure each year. it will also allow parliament and the council to exert greater pressure on the european executive.
president. - mr president, i think the interest is much greater than the crowd that rushed into this house this afternoon, which i regret once again for my group and for the others. mr president, guinea conakry needs the support of the international community. when president conté died, a military junta took power. condemned abroad, it had nevertheless received domestic support because it promised a rapid transition to civilian rule with free elections. captain dadis camara, who led it, had firmly committed not to run for president, but after a disastrous management of the country - lack of budget, public tenders in the markets, basic services to the population - he took a liking to power and he clung to it to the point of now running for elections. his election campaign relies on all the organizational, media and economic resources of the country. in view of this violation of the previous commitments made by the junta, the opposition organized a demonstration which was brutally suppressed by the presidential guard. it left 150 dead, over 1,000 injured, and many women raped and disemboweled. the response of the european parliament and, i hope, of the european union will be clear. we are calling for the suspension of the european union's fisheries agreement. we call on the african union to impose sanctions on the military junta and to organise a dialogue within a reconciliation commission. we call for the establishment of a transitional government to prepare for the presidential and legislative elections, as the junta has been definitively banned by the international community. i hope that these reactions, in the light of the tragedy that has occurred, will serve as a precedent and that in other cases of flagrant violations of human rights, the european union will have the courage to act with the same speed.
mr president, 150 dead and how many sexual humiliations are uncounted today. on 28 september, an unprecedented violation was unleashed against guinean civilians. it is also an excessive repression by the ruling military junta and the evidence in this regard is irrefutable. in the face of such barbarity we must be extremely firm and i welcome the targeted sanctions decided yesterday by the union countries against the junta of moussa dadis camara. of course, condemning events is not enough. we must demand that the facts be fully exposed, by means of a genuine international commission of inquiry, and that the crimes committed do not go unpunished. i would also like to call on the union in the thirty seconds i have left to use all the means at its disposal to combat the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war. this phenomenon is on the rise in many areas of armed conflict. women, sometimes very old or very young, are the victims. it is the vulnerable who are targeted in all cases. advocating the rule of law and good governance must automatically be accompanied by respect for human rights, gender equality, protection of the most vulnerable, as minimum conditions for any new cooperation agreement of any kind.
author. - mr president, i would like to make three small points to supplement what my colleagues have said. first of all - and i quote mrs gomes - despite all that is happening, despite the tragedies in iran and the regime, we remain confident in the political future of that country and in the strength of its civil society. the second point is that it has not been sufficiently emphasized that we condemn the recent suicide bombings in sistan-baluchistan, even though they do affect the revolutionary guards and, alas, dozens of civilians. we are against this kind of violence, even though we understand very well why it happens, but at that time we must stand with those who are resisting the regime. finally, i believe that our parliament condemns the death penalty, whether it is applied to minors, women, adults or to any country in the world.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr reinfeldt, and of course also cecilia, on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. it is important to emphasize that it was thanks to your determination that this was possible, thanks to your sense of compromise that we finally reached this point. because there were many pessimists in this chamber too, who thought that we should wait until the british elections, or even not wait at all for the ratification of this treaty. so it's thanks to you, and i thank you on behalf of everyone for the work that's been done. this means that almost ten years of work have been crowned with success. i also want to thank you for today's debate, for agreeing to a debate with the heads of group on the profile of the high representative, the president of the council and the structure of the commission, because this will be the only debate on this issue. everything else is not really transparent, we have to say! we read a lot in the press, and it is good that there is still a press to find out a little bit about what is happening, but i think that in the future we will have to think about how to establish a little transparency in a process which is extremely important for the european union. and i'm going to speak in a slightly different order about the different points, the different appointments. i shall begin, mr president of the commission, with the structures of the commission, because that is the most important thing for parliament. it is our competence, or at least it is your competence, but it is in relation to you that we must make the choice. we are the ones who are in control, whereas the president of the council is not. in your proposals, what you are asked to do for the first time is to use 'clusters' in the distribution of competences. what we are proposing is to set up four clusters, i.e. groups of commission portfolios: external action, which is obvious, then innovation, climate and sustainability, then all matters relating to financial and economic justice and, finally, internal affairs. it's absolutely necessary. and why not have vice-presidents who would really take the lead, the responsibility, of each of these groups which seem to be the result of common sense within the commission? this organisation would have the advantage of further improving the work of the commission under your presidency. on the other hand, there must also be a balance in the representation of women in the commission. i think it is also a concern on your part to have applications that give this possibility. as regards the second point, mr president, namely the post of high representative, the most important thing is to have someone who is willing to pursue a coherent policy of cfsp and community policies, someone who also defends human rights and who incorporates this element in every action he takes. and finally, to have someone who believes in a strong european external action service. these are the three key elements of this personality. we need someone who really believes that cfsp and community policies should be integrated - which makes perfect sense since she will also be vice-president of the commission. so naturally i come to the third nomination, the one that is most talked about, the one that is, shall we say, the sexiest of all, namely the president of the council. mr reinfeldt, my group has three points of view. these are only opinions, since the council will decide. but fortunately parliament can give opinions and do so openly. firstly, this function should be vested in a chairman rather than a president, to use those two english words. secondly, it must be someone who believes in european integration. if you elect a pope, you'll still get a catholic! so if we now elect a president of the council, we must choose someone who believes in european integration and not someone who is sceptical, as is sometimes the case... finally, to be sure of his conviction in favour of european integration, he must be someone who believes in the community method. it is the community method that is moving europe forward, not governmentalism! governmentalism is an idea of great countries! although there are fortunately some large countries that do not believe in this intergovernmental method. it is the community method that the president of the council must defend. i would like to conclude by saying, mr president, that i naturally ask mr reinfeldt to find a consensus in the council, and that the pro-european coalition in this parliament should be reflected in the appointments and the distribution of the various posts. so what we want is a compromise, but one which also reflects the composition of the pro-european alliance that is moving europe forward in this european parliament.
the president-in-office of the council has said that the council is not going to be able to take decisions on the appointment of the president of the council. we are now witnessing, for example, in belgium, the candidacy of prime minister herman van rompuy being defended with arguments of the following nature: he's unobtrusive, he has relatively few enemies, and he's good at finding compromises. the reasoning behind this is that if you can govern an artificial country like belgium, you can also govern europe. well, nobody in europe has any interest in the european union becoming a kind of belgium in general. herman van rompuy is not a prime minister who really governs. the belgian structure is no longer manageable, and so mr van rompuy is more a kind of caretaker of the status quo, that he is in fact merely managing the current affairs. we need not a colourless, tasteless and odourless figure who dances to the tune of the european commission, but a powerful voice for the member states and for the citizens, who unfortunately do not figure in the whole story.
mr president, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the swedish presidency for the very remarkable work it is doing. but i would like to take this opportunity to speak to president barroso as an interlocutor: mrs malström will certainly convey to him the remarks i have to make, following her speech in reply to mr verhofstadt. we all want an efficient and credible commission, making full use of its power of initiative and applying the community method without any timidity. but if we want this commission - and i have heard that mr barroso also wants it - then it seems to me that we must articulate its action on competences organized in four or five pillars, each pillar being placed under the political responsibility of a vice-president invested with the authority and the capacity - and the power for that matter - to ensure the coherence of the whole of the policy of its pillar. the current division of powers within the commission - and i am well placed to speak about this, having been a commissioner for five years - undermines the community method, hinders the power of initiative and is detrimental to your institution. you will tell mr barroso that for me. it was understandable that it was difficult to reorganise the structure of the competences inherited from sometimes curious, if not opportunistic, arrangements of the past, but i would not understand why the present president does not put the order that a new ambition for this institution deserves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i should have been rapporteur on this dossier, so i feel a bit disappointed. however, i am happy that we are moving forward. it is not the time for an interinstitutional dispute. i am happy that the council is prepared to move. i have a number of observations to make. indeed, we hope here in parliament that the council will take on board the ideas in the resolutions that we are going to vote on tomorrow. i would emphasise the need to have the right balance between – like in climate change – mitigation and adaptation. here, i am speaking about preventing this disease and understanding why it happens, what the factors are, so we can really prevent it effectively, because that is always the most effective and also the least expensive way of fighting disease. is the joint programming initiative enough? well, not in the sense that this should become the norm, that in such major undertakings working together should be the norm, not just a voluntary thing, but something that would really bind all member states into working together effectively. secondly, on financial priorities, the first question is: are we spending enough on these types of diseases? we believe this is not the case and we would strongly encourage, within the forthcoming framework programmes, taking some money from big programmes like iter, which the best scientists are telling us will pay off maybe in 60 years, and put some of that money into research into alzheimer’s disease and other diseases of a similar nature. i think that this is really needed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the fact that you will find on your desk a charge concerning the lux prize, a cinema prize which you are going to award. i just wanted to remind you that you can vote. you have to vote to choose one of the three films in competition. you have a program on the films that are offered. you have a dvd of the 2007 award-winning film, which has been translated into 23 languages plus 7 languages. the idea is that everyone in the european union can see these films. i ask you two things: first, go see the movies, second, vote. voting is very easy: you have the procedure in the burden, you can vote on the website and you can also watch the films on channel 77 of your tv. i'm asking you to watch these films. these are fine works, which convey european values. you have to choose one, two or three. it is up to you to decide, and this parliament must vote clearly, meaningfully and in large numbers. i therefore ask you to take part in this vote. it's a good move. it is a citizens' initiative, which aims to promote european values and european filmmakers. you have one more week, next week, to do it. i'm counting on you. i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on culture, mrs doris pack, who has been very involved in this matter. she and i are asking you both to vote en masse.
in writing. a major public health problem, neurodegenerative diseases and, in particular, alzheimer's disease, are the leading cause of heavy care for people over 65. a pathology that will inevitably increase with the planned ageing of the european population: 7 million europeans today, probably double that number in the coming decades. this is why concerted action at european union level is important. that is why the european parliament is acting as a citizen's voice when it calls, in the resolution voted today, for a cohesive research effort in this field. the emphasis should clearly be on a multidisciplinary approach, including diagnosis, prevention, treatment and support for patients and their families. the call for more volunteers for clinical trials is also needed if effective drugs for cognitive impairment are to be brought to market. there is a huge effort to be made to inform families. another challenge in order to better supervise the patients and especially to delay the onset of symptoms is the variation and awakening of daily intellectual activities.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, every six seconds a child dies of hunger in the world, and we have just passed the milestone of one billion people suffering from malnutrition. this very serious situation was denounced at the g20 summit in pittsburgh last september. at the summit, $20 billion was announced to help agriculture in developing countries. this was also done at the g8 summit in l'aquila. however, the summit held in rome last week, on 16 november, under the auspices of the fao, showed a very different reality: it was snubbed by almost all the g8 leaders and did not result in the ratification of the measures expected. it is not surprising, then, that no specific commitments are included in the text of some 40 articles, including the $44 billion a year that fao considers necessary to support agriculture in the poorest countries. the authors of the final declaration merely welcomed the promise of the members of the g8 - precisely aquila - on this subject. i therefore deplore this double talk and i doubt the g20's ability to implement these measures. as the famous french humorist pierre dac said: "it takes infinite patience to always wait for what never happens".
mr president, as you know, an agreement between the belgian state and gdf suez was concluded in october 2009. it extends and consolidates the monopoly of gdf suez until 2025. this is completely contrary to the policies of liberalization. it is also a decision that will confirm the monopoly of nuclear power, which will make renewable energy projects and all the jobs associated with them much more difficult. when we know that the regulator, instead of being an independent regulator, is finally going to hand over market surveillance and price setting to a monitoring committee on which gdf suez will sit, i really wonder. i hope that the commission will react and be able to put its finger on a situation where the judge has left and is both the supervisor and the supervised. i therefore hope that the commission will react, especially on the eve of the copenhagen summit, where energy issues - and in particular renewable energies - will obviously be central. i hope that the commission will be careful not to allow a so-called pax electrica to be established in belgium, the main purpose of which is to confirm the monopoly of electrabel gdf suez.
mr president, euronews is a remarkable showcase for us around the world, and i am very fond of this channel, but i often wonder about the content of the advertisements. this morning, i turn on the tv and i see the advertisement for this country she calls macedonia. what am i reading? "zero tax for companies, average salary: 370 euros, 10% income tax, and so on" if this is how this country intends to present its candidacy for europe, and if i ask in my region: 'do you want to let macedonia in?', i assure you that it will not work. when we are discussing relocations within europe, when we are fighting social dumping, can we allow such advertisements to be the showcase of our social europe? i don't think he did. i also wondered at the time about an ad about iran, at the time when there were stoning in iran, we were admitting ads for this seraphic country.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that the action of the european parliament has allowed protections to be this time explicitly guaranteed to internet users. it is true that if this parliament had not voted twice for the famous amendment no 138, we would not be here today. it is clear that what is in the compromise text today is what we have obtained. but, as corinne lepage said, the compromise we reached is certainly not the alpha and omega of protecting the rights of internet users. i think we have gone as far as possible in the constitutional order in which the european parliament operates today. the compromise therefore opens the way to the adoption of the telecoms package, which we consider to be a step forward from the system inherited from the days of the telecoms monopolies, which, thank god, are over. but the vote tomorrow can only be a start. we will be extremely vigilant here and in the national parliaments about how the compromise that will be adopted tomorrow is transposed into national law, because we know that a number of member states of the european union have, let us say, a heavy hand with public freedoms - particularly on the internet - and i am not sure that they will avoid the pitfall of diverging from the rule we will adopt tomorrow. finally, it is time for the european union to adopt a genuine charter of internet users' rights, which defines access rights, of course, privacy rights, freedom of expression, net neutrality. for us, a simple declaration on net neutrality is not enough. and, yes, we must pay particular attention to the rights of authors and creators, so that the dissemination of their works on the internet is an encouragement to them. but this cannot be done at the cost of confiscating, for private interests, this extraordinary tool of the internet.
in writing. president, i would like to briefly focus on the infamous internet compromise (at 138). the scheme developed provides maximum guarantees for all internet users: - the privacy of users is respected, - the european convention on human rights applies, - and above all: the internet shall never be shut down unless an independent body has previously reviewed and assessed the specific situation. in practical terms, this means that only serious abuses can be addressed. this legal regime applies both to the public authorities and to the internet service providers themselves. this european law guarantees free access to the internet and confirms de facto that it is a service of general interest, which cannot be simply withdrawn from a consumer (as is the case with gas, water or electricity). the fact that this compromise was unanimously approved by all parliamentary delegations indicates that it is a fine agreement which firmly anchors the rights of consumers in the new telecommunications law.
copenhagen, ladies and gentlemen, has failed before the conference has even begun. there may be a deal, but it's not a legally binding agreement. president obama is not getting a carbon trading system through the senate, his priority is health care and not cap and trade. that is the choice europe faces: we should continue with a solo, right? are we going to continue with a mandatory emissions trading system or not? we must think about that. the cost of a single entrance is very high. this will cost european industry hundreds of billions of euros by 2020 and will cost europe hundreds of thousands of jobs. let me give you an example. antwerp has the second largest concentration of chemical companies in the world after houston. it employs 64,000 people directly and 100,000 people indirectly. the antwerp chemical industry will not survive a european union and perhaps a dutchman will be needed to defend antwerp's economic interests. by 2020, the chemical industry will be gone, because the cost of production is too high. emissions trading also has many disadvantages, it's very volatile. the price has fallen from 30 euros to 8 euros. what are we supposed to do? we must develop environmental technology well, we must make environmental investments tax-deductible, encourage research and develop environmentally friendly production technologies. we in this parliament need a reality check. i sometimes get the impression that we are in a church rather than in a parliament. it is technological innovation that will save us, not the trade in fried air.
i would like to speak about the transport aspect. i believe that together with the energy issue, transport is actually the most difficult of the climate challenges. this is difficult because it requires a rethinking of the logistical organization of our trading system and of the way we move and travel. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. investing in research and development, imposing stricter technical standards, establishing and disseminating best practice, ensuring the internalisation of external costs to stimulate efficiency in the system and create a level playing field between different modes of transport. but of course also ambitious targets that can be enforced on a global scale. this is particularly important for the aviation sector and for maritime transport, where there is still a lot of sustainability to be gained. i have to say that the targets set by the council, minus 10% by 2020 for air transport and minus 20% for maritime transport, are not really ambitious enough. i think we can go further in that. on the other hand, i note that the resolution refers to the proposal to sell half the emission allowances by tender. that is not consistent with what we ourselves proposed two years ago when we got 15%. so i would focus on an ambitious agreement, and let's go for it.
madam president, we can hear it clearly, the tone is set, i think, and minister carlgren even lamented the pessimism in the air. it is a real countdown that has begun to save the copenhagen conference and to ensure that the world's major polluting countries sign an ambitious agreement and commit themselves to future generations. a deal is a good deal. a successful one, of course, is even better. we know that this success depends on the accession of the industrialized countries, led by china and the united states, to what will be the future copenhagen protocol, and also on the equally necessary support of the developing countries. in this regard, our committee on the environment and public health in parliament has done its job, proposing direct annual aid of €30 billion until 2020 to help these countries in the transition to a lower carbon economy. this brings me to what i consider to be a flaw in our resolution, and i mean the failure to consider the impact of climate change on the health of populations. this is a crucial impact if we hear the calls and warnings from the who. i therefore call on all of you to support the two amendments i have inserted in our resolution in this connection.
madam president, i would first of all like to welcome the efforts of the swedish presidency to reach an ambitious agreement in copenhagen, and this despite the very strong wind of pessimism blowing over these future negotiations. i think it is not realistic to admit at this stage that the copenhagen summit is dead or that it will not lead to a final agreement to be ratified by all the parties. let's not be too quick to be pessimistic. i would urge that at this stage we do not look back on our ambitions, either in terms of objectives or deadlines. we must continue to believe in a comprehensive, ambitious and binding global political agreement, paving the way for the conclusion of a legal treaty as soon as possible. it is really too early to talk about the deadline for the cop 16 of december 2010. we must now translate our rhetoric into real political will. we must clarify our commitment in financial terms and in terms of aid to developing countries, particularly through technology transfers. at this stage, a total and collective commitment by the european union is essential. i also note on paper the recent but exemplary momentum given to the talks by brazil, south korea, indonesia and norway, in particular, which have quantified their ambitions to reduce their polluting emissions. while the flexibility demanded by the united states, which is only beginning to take the climate issue into account, is understandable, we will still have to achieve binding and ambitious, quantified commitments in the short, medium and long term from major polluters such as the united states and china. otherwise, we are running into a climate, political and moral disaster.
madam president, i have heard a lot about industry in this debate, and i would like copenhagen not to make the mistake of forgetting agriculture. i would of course like to follow my colleague mr niculescu in saying that we should not regard it as a constraint but as a potential tool to combat global warming in the future. this activity cannot be marginalized, nor can it be ignored, since it occupies most of the european territory and has enormous potential to combat global warming. agriculture must therefore be at the centre of the copenhagen debate and i hope that the members of the council and the members of the commission will not forget this and will be our spokesmen in copenhagen in december.
- i'm the reporter. - let me explain: this is the third report in a trilogy on the use of pesticides. we passed a regulation earlier this year in the previous parliament on the placing on the market and marketing of pesticides. we also adopted a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides at that time, and this regulation on pesticides and statistics is the third window. we had to deal with this proposal in the conciliation committee because something went wrong in the previous parliament. there were not many people there, but in the second reading we were too few to get enough votes to finish that second reading. i would like to speak because i would like to thank the swedish presidency, but also and especially the czech presidency, because they could have totally screwed up that second reading, they could have refused to go to mediation. it is thanks to their good relations with parliament, and also thanks to the chairmen of the political groups, who wrote a letter to the presidency with me immediately after the elections, that this report was saved and that we are able to vote today on the text as agreed at second reading by the conciliation procedure. thank you to everyone who worked on this.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i will ask a question about the structure of the commission, which is normal, since we will have a new commission very soon. firstly, i have some doubts about the fact that the environment portfolio will be divided into three areas: climate change, energy and environment. i have doubts about that, and that is a point i want to make. but the most important question i will ask you is about fundamental rights and the fight against discrimination. i think we agreed that we would have a commissioner responsible for this issue. now the question is to make sure that you don't have a home affairs portfolio that includes asylum and immigration issues, because then home affairs would be a security issue and not a home affairs issue. mr barrot proposed the creation of three separate commissioners' posts: fundamental rights, home affairs and security, and asylum and immigration. my question is simply: how do you see this problem?
mr president, i should like to return to the question my colleague has just asked. the timetable you give us is an extremely short timetable. how can we take three months to define a strategy for 2020? we have to develop a strategy for the whole of the european union on social, economic and environmental issues, and we have three months and a consultation which starts today. i would therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that i think it is necessary to wait until the commission itself is set up so that we can question it, but above all that we take the time to make a real project. we cannot define a project for the european union in three months.
the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. this is a breakthrough. it is the first time that the presidency has been present at this type of debate, and i am glad of that. but let's face it, it remains a difficult exercise. in fact, the council continues to hide behind a sort of gentlemen's agreement, once concluded in the early 1970s, 40 years ago, in which parliament and the council agreed not to interfere with each other's budgets, not to look into each other's books and to let everything happen, like decent gentlemen among themselves. this is no longer the case, because the council budget has been fundamentally changed. forty years ago it was a budget that only involved administrative expenditure. meanwhile, operating expenses have increased. and so we must go to a breakthrough. we've arranged for a temporary unblock. we are prepared to grant discharge, but we really must go one step further. because the problems haven't been solved. we have a duty to ensure that there is transparency and democratic control over the council's budget and also over the budget of our own parliament. i therefore agree with all the speakers, the rapporteur, the group speakers, who have clearly said: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the court of auditors' report has already made some suggestions for this, and it again mentions matters relating to the sesam programme. i say to you, madam president-in-office, you may not be here any time soon, but we will continue to insist on transparency.
mr president, commissioner, in your reply you do indeed refer to the outcome of a second report in autumn 2010, a third energy package, which will be closely monitored. in the meantime, you are well aware that thousands of complaints have been lodged with consumer organizations and national regulators about the total lack of transparency in gas and electricity bills, both in terms of prices and actual consumption. this is at a time when the commission, like the member states, is insisting in its energy plans on the need to reduce consumption and on the possibility of comparing prices in order to change suppliers. this was the main objective of liberalisation. i shall therefore go straight to the point, madam commissioner, and ask you what measures - and i speak in the plural - the commission intends to take in the short term to address these shortcomings. i would also remind you that the commission has rejected an energy consumer charter proposed by parliament - that was mrs de vits - which you yourself had earlier advocated.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there have been several points raised, but i have two feelings about the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. first of all, i'm glad he exists. the european workers must know that europe stands by them in the difficult times we are going through. secondly, i am pleased that belgium has been commended for the quality of the cooperation between the social partners in the preparation of the dossier. unfortunately, i also have some regrets about the way the gef works. firstly, its success reflects the difficult economic situation in europe, with the social consequences that we all know. secondly, the coherence of the fund with other aid instruments was called into question in the dell case. on this subject i fully support the comments made earlier by my colleague pervenche berès. finally, on the budgetary side, the payment appropriations for carrying out the tasks of this fund must be transferred from other budgetary lines and, to my knowledge, systematically from the european social fund. even if this is made possible by the rate of payment of the structural funds, which is not as high as we would like, the structural funds must be used for their purpose. in conclusion, i would like to invite you to reflect on the financing of the egf and i see an openness on the part of the commission, if not to give it a full budgetary base directly on an equal footing with the other funds, at least to ensure that it is no longer financed exclusively from the social structural funds.
i should like to make a brief structural comment on the structural operation of the fund. we are naturally very pleased with the projects which are on the table today and which will be approved tomorrow. but of course, everything can be improved, hence a brief remark. the fund, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes misses its purpose simply because the procedure is too rigid, commissioner. the fund's core objective is that workers who are affected and lose their jobs are quickly supported and helped to find a new job. that is not always possible today, because we cannot play the ball long enough, and that is very annoying, especially for older employees. outplacement and reception require a rapid and coordinated approach, and that is totally lacking at the moment. in addition, the globalisation fund suffers from a lack of flexibility, and if you lose your job as an employee and you are unfortunately from a company that is not on the list, you simply do not qualify for assistance. we are confronted daily with such stories of affected workers who are not eligible, and we cannot explain - it is too complicated to explain - why this is not possible. i think we must find a concrete solution to this as soon as possible, commissioner, and we need a much faster approach and, if possible, a formula that allows us to work in an 'envelope-oriented' way. i think we will have to work on that in the coming weeks and months.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i shall not go back to the nominations of last week. let me just say that there was good news and there was bad news. the bad news was that it was not a liberal who was in the president’s seat, but the good news was that it was a belgian. as the president of the commission said, belgium is in fact a country with an overall consensus, certainly about european matters and about the future of europe. so, mr barroso, what we hope now is that we have a new commission as soon as possible. i hope that there will be a large number of liberal commissioners in it –some people are saying there are too many, but for me 50% would be good! i think that nearly one third of liberal commissioners is a good figure. anyway, i am very pleased that, of the eight liberal commissioners who have been presented as candidates for the commission, there are four women, so there is a gender balance in the liberal presence in the commission. on priorities, i think that there are three main priorities for the next days and weeks. first of all, copenhagen. we have to make a success of it. i think there are two remaining questions: how to address the concerns of the developing world, and how to make a treaty that is legally binding, because that is the main question. what the substance of the treaty will be is important, but more important in my view is the legally binding character of all this. the second point is the stockholm programme. for our group, the basic point here is the balance between security and freedom. it is obvious that we have to protect our citizens against terrorism and organised crime, but maybe, after 9/11, we have put too much focus on security and protection. i think that the stockholm programme – and also the philosophy of your presidency – has to rebalance that towards respect for fundamental rights and also more openness in society. i think this is the big ambition and what the stockholm programme has to do. the view of our group, the alde group, is that it is more ambitious than the tampere programme and the hague programme, but with a more important focus on the fundamental rights of the people. it is good to protect and to organise security, but you have to do it in a balanced way with respect for fundamental rights. the third big task for the next days, as the president of the commission said, is financial supervision. mr barroso, i think that it is perhaps becoming more and more clear that in the end a single european financial supervisor is what we need. we need a good supervisory body for cross-border financial institutions that would link micro- and macro-supervision and perhaps link it as closely as possible to the european central bank – why not? – and, naturally, also to what is happening in the commission. what is important now is that the council does not downsize the proposals that are on the table. that is my fear for the moment. in parliament we are pushing for more ambitious proposals, but i think the temptation for the moment in the council is in the opposite direction. therefore it is absolutely necessary that there is a good understanding about this between the commission and parliament, which will involve saying to the council: that is codecision procedure, so if you come with proposals and the council comes with proposals which go down towards the commission proposals, that is not going to work in the parliament. we are going in the opposite direction. i think there is a majority here in parliament in favour of going in the direction of a single supervisor. that is what we need in the future, and i think it is an important message to give to you to give to the presidency, because there will certainly be a huge discussion on 10 and 11 december when there is the next european council.
rapporteur. − mr president, briefly, i would just like to thank the swedish presidency for the excellent cooperation. i think this agreement is ambitious as well as realistic. it will convince us to opt for fuel efficiency, for low noise and also, of course, for safety. my thanks also go to the commission and the shadow rapporteurs, matthias groote and jorgo chatzimarkakis, for the terrific job they have done.
mr president, i can assure you that the speed of the vote is excellent. you are a very polite man, and we are very grateful to you, but we could still speed things up if you did not say thank you after every vote, but only at the end of the vote! thank you, mr president!
like many citizens in europe who have not been given the opportunity to express their views on the lisbon treaty, i am very concerned about the evolution of the area of freedom, security and justice. asylum and immigration are increasingly being transferred to the european union, and these are matters that are increasingly being removed from the sphere of democratic control by citizens. the result will be more immigration, with all the problems that go with it. the sphere of rights without obligations, which this resolution also lays out, is an alibi for immigrants not to conform to the standards of their host country. i am particularly annoyed by the passage on the so-called 'multiple discrimination against roma women' without mentioning the fact that this discrimination is often self-imposed. just think of the fact that many roma women and underage children are forced to go.... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. − the resolution adopted by the european parliament today has a specific chapter which emphasises the important role of regions and local authorities in climate policy, particularly in terms of consultation, information, information and implementation. up to 80% of adaptation and mitigation measures will be implemented at regional and local level. several regional authorities are already taking the lead in implementing a strong climate change policy. as a member of the european free alliance, representing european nations and regions, i fully support the direct involvement of regional governments in promoting sustainable development and providing an effective response to climate change. in this context, the work of the network of regional governments for sustainable development (nrg4sd) should be highlighted. this network already works closely with the united nations development programme and the united nations environment programme (undp and unep). the efta members therefore call for explicit recognition of the role of regional authorities in the context of the copenhagen accord, particularly on mitigation and adaptation policies.
in writing. in copenhagen, from 7 to 18 december, nearly 200 nations will negotiate a new international treaty to combat climate change, the post-kyoto treaty, which will come into force in 2013... the resolution adopted will serve as a negotiating roadmap for the european union. as a full member of the envi committee, i contributed to it by means of amendments supporting, in particular, the legally binding nature of the agreement. my demands in the vote are that we reach a global political agreement which is ambitious, binding and which will pave the way quickly for a genuine legal treaty. achieving a 30% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990 by 2020, with ambitious, quantified but flexible commitments from other polluters such as the us and china, and 80% by 2050, as requested by the experts; the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy and to clarifying the collective commitment of the industrialised countries in terms of financial and aid to developing countries. in a crisis situation, it is difficult to determine a precise amount, but it will be necessary to ensure that it corresponds, at least, to the commitments made! failure in copenhagen would be an environmental, political and moral disaster!
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution because it calls on the eu's negotiating leaders to make available 30 billion euro to developing countries in their fight against climate change. the ep is also calling for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change. they have always remained vague about their financial commitment to the summit. the ep has now called on them to be more clear about amounts and percentages. that's how the ball goes back to the united states. there are signs that the americans are putting a co2 target on the table. this resolution increases the pressure on president obama to come up with concrete proposals as well, which makes the chances of success in copenhagen much greater. this in turn increases the likelihood that countries such as china, india and brazil will also join global climate policy. so it was with great enthusiasm that i, together with my colleagues from the green group, adopted this strong resolution. the only negative point is that the production of nuclear energy is not mentioned in the resolution. it is important that the commission and the member states negotiate vigorously in copenhagen.
in writing. so far, progress has been slow in some aspects of the area of freedom, security and justice, while the right to move and reside freely within the eu is now open to more than 500 million citizens! it's important to manage that. and the european parliament's resolution voted today is helping to do that. i welcome this, because it concerns citizens first and foremost and it is in line with my priorities: a europe of law and justice (protection of fundamental rights and the fight against all forms of discrimination); a europe that protects but is not big brother (strengthening europol and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in its operational and administrative dimension, improving interstate cooperation between police and intelligence services, building a european criminal justice area based on the principle of mutual recognition, protection of personal data); a europe of solidarity, responsibility and fairness in asylum and immigration through effective solidarity between all member states, the fight against trafficking and sexual and economic exploitation of human beings. the next step: the european council of 9 and 10 december 2009!
as president of the european liberal democrat and reform party, i have acquaintances, friends and comrades in all the countries covered in today's report. i would like to begin by congratulating commissioner olli rehn on his achievements over the past five years and to thank him in particular for this; he deserves our full recognition. as i said, i have friends and acquaintances in all the countries and i can say with some pride that, as far as i know, we are the only large political family that agrees on, for example, the status of kosovo and that has reached a consensus on this since 2006, which has always held. you mustn't think that's a coincidence. it's been worked on. you can imagine, therefore, that on the one hand i am disappointed to see that kosovo is not covered by the agreement on visa facilitation; it seems as if the kosovars are being punished for the fact that some eu member states have still not been able to reconcile themselves with the independence of their country. i'm very sorry to hear that. you will also allow me, mr president-in-office of the council and mr commissioner, to raise a few questions about what seems to be happening in bosnia-herzegovina at the moment. i am afraid i am less optimistic than you about the outcome of things, if only because people there get the impression that suddenly everything has to happen incredibly fast and that there is no time for adequate consultation, certainly not from other political parties than the largest, with whom you are in dialogue. finally, i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that we too are absolutely committed to and will continue to insist that all the candidate countries respect the copenhagen criteria, without any exception to anyone or anything. nor are we indifferent to the absorption capacity of the european union, which is hard to believe. but what we do not like is that some of our colleagues seem to want to use this notion of absorption capacity to delay the accession of new member states. we disagree with that. conclusion i think, commissioner, that the last five years have indeed been successful. i wish you the best for the future. we shall meet again on these benches, perhaps in different capacities, but thank you very much.
we must now stop this masquerade about turkish accession. we must stop covering up and minimizing the problems. we all have to face reality. we have been negotiating these accession negotiations for almost five years now, and what is the conclusion? turkey is pursuing an increasingly anti-european, anti-western foreign policy. turkey is becoming more and more islamic under the leadership of mr erdogan and president gül. turkey still refuses to recognise all the current member states of the european union and to fulfil its obligations under the customs union. turkey occupies part of the territory of one of the existing eu member states. and that is not to mention the structural and enduring problem of not respecting the right to freedom of expression. mr bildt said just now that he rejects a so-called closed concept of europe. i do not think anyone here wants a closed concept of europe, but there are members of parliament, including myself, who are in favour of a european concept of europe. and in the words of herman van rompuy, the future president of the european council: turkey is not europe and never will be!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are many women in europe and throughout the world who fight every day for the elimination of violence against them, but they cannot and must not fight this battle alone, because this violence against women, perpetrated in the great majority by men, is also violence against all of humanity. it is only natural that men should also join in this fight. that's why i'm in the white ribbon campaign. originally created by men for men, this campaign started in canada almost 20 years ago. it was a day when some men decided that they had a duty to inspire other men to speak out publicly against violence against women. this white ribbon is a symbol, it is also the one of the carnation that recalls the struggle of congolese women against the suffering they are victims of every day they were there just now. i therefore call on as many colleagues as possible to join us in this fight against violence against women, because there is physical violence, but also psychological violence and, as you know, words often hurt more than blows.
the complex and dangerous situation in somalia and its consequences for the stability of the region are of concern to us all. the pirates' activities and the consequences for shipping in a wide area around somalia have now become a global witness to their problems. the solution to this problem requires an integrated approach, as the commissioner has said before. i would like to take this opportunity to express our appreciation for the excellent work of the atalanta mission to date. this is important because the accessibility of this zone is crucial for international trade and the transport of goods. we want the seamen on merchant ships, but of course also the fishermen who work there, to be able to do their work in a safe way. we think that is essential. let us therefore continue to support the work of this mission, let us of course also examine whether we can do more and, as the commissioner rightly said, let us effectively tackle the problem at its roots on several fronts at the same time.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, with this resolution our parliament naturally intends to support the commission's very strong-willed policy on tobacco control. however, we also ask - and it is essential - that it goes further and ensures that in 2011 europeans will have the right to a healthy space in all public places, in transport and at work. europe has the right - it is obvious - and even the duty to protect and therefore prohibit a whole series of toxic substances, substances which kill, for some of them, less than tobacco, chemicals, pesticides, certain heavy metals or asbestos, to name but a few. when i say that europe must prohibit, and therefore guarantee, this smoke-free area for all workers, as we are being asked to do by an overwhelming majority of citizens, that does not mean, of course, that we are launching a crusade against smokers here. i'm a liberal and i'm very much attached to this notion of freedom, of free choice and free will. a european text may provide for derogations, smoke-holes and areas of freedom. legislation is not oppression. we are talking about public spaces here, but don't tell me that europe has no place in this debate.
madam president, commissioner, apart from mr silvio berlusconi, whose country was hosting the summit, no g8 leaders were present at the fao summit on world food security. so a highly political meeting with an economic, social and financial dimension has been reduced to a trivial technical meeting. however, mr diouf's objective was to develop the tools and means of production so as to ensure food security in a sustainable way in developing countries. the economic and financial crisis, as we know, and as has been said, has only made world hunger worse. the issue was more topical than ever, since for the first time in history, more than a billion people worldwide are now hungry. that's one-sixth of the world's population, that's 20 percent more than in 2005, that's 105 million more than in 2008. all this is likely to give rise, as mr bové has said, to new conflicts of an extremely serious nature. it is the lack of investment in agriculture that has led to this phenomenon of food insecurity. agriculture is the only means of subsistence for 70% of the world's poor, as mr diouf pointed out. the latter had called for $44 billion a year to finance investments in small producers. his request was a dead letter: no timetable, no strategy, no political will on the part of the rich countries. commissioner, what is the state of play in implementing the commitments of the g8 last july? i know from your experience how difficult it is to mobilize donors. i still remember the extremely difficult struggle, also led by president barroso, to obtain that unfortunate billion euro, now two years ago, to make this food facility possible. yet the future of europe is closely linked to the fate of the developing countries. i do not believe, commissioner, in the prescriptions of our socialist colleague who speaks to us of ultracapitalism or ultraliberalism - which is also a semantic assimilation on a moral level that is a little limited. i do not see the solution in such a short ideological statement. i must tell you, sir, that in the underdevelopment of certain countries after independence, marxist obscurantism bears a much heavier responsibility than liberalism. that is what i wanted to say, because i will not allow any short ideological declamation or incantation to pass through this chamber, which limits intellectual honesty.
madam president, i would like to elaborate on what i said here the day before yesterday about the dramatic food crisis in which africa is mainly plunged and the obvious lack of support from the most industrialized countries, as well as from the emerging countries, for the problem of global food security. during the discussions at the fao summit in rome, several ngos accused the multinational food companies of trying to take over thousands of hectares of highly fertile land belonging to small farmers in the third world. more than 40,000 hectares have already been acquired from ethiopia to indonesia. they also denounced the tendency of many rich countries to promote the use of chemical fertilizers and new technologies in africa instead of encouraging the sustainable development of agroecology. they have blasted agrochemical companies, the use of gmos and the development of biofuels at the expense of food crops. i call on the european union to commit itself urgently to the establishment of the global partnership project, which will make it possible to coordinate actions to combat hunger better. subsistence farming is certainly the most obvious answer, it seems to me.
madam president, commissioner, what is the difference between european beef and imported beef? it is not necessarily the taste, it is not only the price, it is above all the health standards that exist within the european union and that do not necessarily exist in the third countries that export their meat. for example, as regards brazilian beef production, the veterinary and health deficiencies were widely discussed in a report by the irish producers' union submitted to brussels in 2007. tests carried out by the belgian scientific institute for public health also showed that the bacteriological quality of argentine beef was lower than that of local meat, for example, when the beef arrives on our plates. this is not surprising, since it takes about two months for argentine meat to reach the european continent. the consumption cycles are much shorter in belgium, for example, because production is usually consumed in the month of slaughter. that is why the health standards imposed by the european union must not only be respected by european countries, but it is also important that third countries exporting meat to europe respect the same standards. if this is not the case, it shows that the european commission, for which the ban is premature and unjustified, has failed in its responsibility to defend the interests of consumers and penalizes european producers. finally, the countries which have banned the import of brazilian beef, such as the united states, chile and japan, are showing europe the way forward, since quality is a key requirement here. let us therefore act accordingly to protect our producers, who are the guarantors of this quality.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. for the second time in a row, we can say that there is an affirmative statement on the bill. the level of irregularities is decreasing. the traffic light system, which used to give all the red lights, has gradually evolved into a system where more and more orange, yellow and especially green also appear. these are all positive things. another positive thing is agriculture. i used to be a real troubled kid. we have for years considered the gbcs system, the system which provides for the common management of agricultural expenditure, to be a good system. we have seen that a member state like greece did not actually participate in this. these are all things that seem to be moving in the right direction. but there are troubled children. cohesion is the key. research and development. the energy. the transport. the whole chapter is external aid, development, enlargement. so i think we should try to pick out some points of interest from the discharge we are dealing with today. cohesion will be one. that famous remark in paragraph 6.17, which states that up to 11% of the expenditure on the structural funds, regional funds, social funds should not have been paid. i think we should ask the commissioners responsible a lot of questions about this and see how it is done. external aid, development, enlargement, the whole package of money we funnel to the united nations. i read again in the court of auditors' report that they, as well as other organizations, have insufficient or even no access to the accounts of the united nations, so that a large part of european money that is channelled to this organization cannot actually be controlled in a correct way. a third point of interest is the whole system of co-management. the general rapporteur pointed out that 80% of all european money is actually spent in co-management, by member states and the commission. we must now come back to putting pressure on the finance ministers of the member states in particular to ensure that they take responsibility and make a statement saying that they have done their job well, that their administration has spent money correctly, that there has been control. i myself am responsible for own resources in the committee on budgetary control. the whole vat file, it's still giving me concern. we have published several reports on this subject, including those of the previous legislature. it is estimated that the total value added tax fraud in europe amounts to between eur 80 and 100 billion. here too the court of auditors has made a number of observations. i would therefore like to pay particular attention to this in the discharge. finally, the discharge of the other institutions. i myself am the rapporteur for the discharge of parliament. i think that public procurement procedures will be one of the key points. there seems to be some trouble. and finally, the discharge of the council. we gave the council a discharge earlier this week. the court of auditors' report also contains very serious remarks about the council. i think we must keep up the pressure on the council to ensure that they give access to their accounts so that parliament can also have a good way of checking this kind of (speaker moves away from the microphone).
the latest annual report of the european court of auditors is again baffling because of the way the european union is handling the money of the european taxpayer. the court found, on the basis of realistic samples, that in the period 2000-06, an estimated 11% of the overall amount of eur 36.6 billion under the cohesion funds should not have been disbursed. this means that over 4 billion euros in subsidies were wrongly distributed. if we take the belgian situation, we find that the court of auditors also says that a large part of the money spent in wallonia, and more specifically in hainaut, has been badly spent. this is in fact a confirmation of what a colleague said here a few months before the last european elections, namely that european subsidies in wallonia have not produced the desired results, especially in comparison with other european regions, and that it is not just wallonia itself but the european union that is responsible for approving these projects. most financial transfers are for the time being very indirect and through many intermediaries. this is a matter of priority, and at the same time, of course, there is a need to improve the existing control mechanisms.
i was there for the whole debate. one of the most crucial questions i have heard today - and i ask mr caldeira to explain it clearly - is: what about the 11% under cohesion policy that should not have been paid out? there are various explanations for this in the debate. some say four billion, some say two billion, and so on. i think it is extremely important that you explain clearly and clearly what is really at issue before the discharge exercise begins. i would also like to express my gratitude to mr kallas for the work he has done over the past few years. i think that the committee on budgetary control has always been a very pleasant cooperation. we have not always been in agreement, but you will probably have a new mandate in the new commission, a new post, and i wish you the very best.
i wanted to tell mr martin that i saw that he was asking to speak on a personal matter and that i will give him the floor but, in this case, as the rules say, at the end of the debate and after the commission.
mr martin, do you wish to speak after this debate?
that's all we have to say. the debate is closed
the agenda calls for debate on the oral question to the commission on the google project for the worldwide digitisation of libraries, tabled by mr klaus-heiner lehne, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-0101/2009 b7-0224/20009).
the debate is closed. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
in writing. with so many applications for eu membership coming in, the vote on this resolution is timely. europe is a pole of stability on the continent. it cannot remain a club closed to the other european states, but it cannot open itself up indefinitely either! the european union must first of all succeed in the enlargements it has undertaken with regard to the new member states. for the other states knocking on its door, the precondition for any opening of accession negotiations remains strict compliance with the copenhagen criteria (democracy, the rule of law, human rights, equality between women and men, market economy, etc.) and unconditional respect for international law. accession negotiations with the candidate countries must be based on objectively measurable criteria - respect for rights, economic criteria - and avoid any subjective reference based on values, religion or culture. it is therefore important for me to: to recall that enlargement and deepening are inseparable; insisting on the fulfilment of the accession criteria for turkey; and, if negotiations fail, propose a preferential association agreement.
in writing. i believe that non-smokers should be protected from secondhand smoke, but that smokers should also be made aware of the impact of their addiction on themselves and others. no doubt about it! in belgium we are a step ahead on this issue, as our country has already voted in favour of a total ban on smoking in restaurants and workplaces by 2012. i would like to express two concerns. first, are we heading for a society of the forbidden? what do we do about individual responsibility? i feel a certain unease about a society that resembles the one described by george orwell in his novel nineteen eighty-four. secondly, if smokers are to be induced to give up their harmful habits to themselves and others, this must be done with the utmost respect. tobacco is a drug. to ban it altogether would be to deny the fact that the majority of smokers are in the process of becoming addicted. a total ban can be perceived as an act of exclusion, which is counterproductive. why, then, have we not made provision for the possibility of reserving areas for them?
in writing. it is a voluntary and ambitious resolution that we have in hand. but i am appalled by the vote of a majority of my colleagues, especially the christian democrats, who, following intense lobbying by the pressure groups and the interests concerned, rejected article 13. they therefore consider that europe has no place in this debate and no added value in guaranteeing healthy spaces for european citizens in all public places, at work and in transport. in other words, they are not opposed to discrimination against european workers. the irish, but this is only one example, will be very well protected by national law, when one may wonder whether the greek or the czech will ever have that chance, or rather that right. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders, and to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu.
in writing. through this resolution, i share the concern to make progress in the fight against the secondhand smoke imposed on non-smokers. but some people are taking the opportunity to insert into the resolution a provision against subsidies to tobacco producers. i am in favour of this support for endangered crafts. tobacco is less than 10% of the ingredients in cigarettes. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i am glad to see that mr van baalen has returned safely to europe and that he was only expelled when he was already on the plane. i would like to say, more seriously, on behalf of my group, that we are not playing that game. i mean, while the epp refused us an emergency on uganda, which dealt with laws against homosexuals, and we were refused an emergency on iran, which dealt with executions in iran, now they want to get us into the game for or against ortega, with the protests that are happening there. well, no, you won't. i do not think that the emergencies here, whose real purpose is to help people or causes in difficulty, should serve the particular political interests of our members. my group has therefore decided not only not to sign this resolution but also not to vote and to register as a false witness against what is happening here. it is a disgrace to the european parliament.
author. - mr president, there is again an emergency on vietnam and laos. it is true that we have had other cases in the european parliament, but this one cannot be left unaddressed. we're actually quite worried. since 2006, when vietnam was removed from the us blacklist on repression and human rights violations, the crackdown on human rights activists has been increasing. i would like to mention just one case, which is emblematic for me, that of mrs tran khai thanh thuy. she is a writer, blogger, journalist, activist who is currently in prison for obscure reasons, the most plausible of which is the fact that she is defending freedom of expression and human rights in her country. she has diabetes. she's in poor health. we fear for his life and demand not only adequate medical care in prison but his immediate release. i like vietnam very much. vietnam is a great country, it will hold the presidency of asean in 2010, and i think that the adoption of measures more in line with international democratic standards could only further establish its moral authority.
mr president, in july 2007 i was here, in this very room, rejoicing that 2006 could be a year of political opening up for vietnam. i called on vietnam to take account of all the religions represented in its territory and to allow its people to choose their religion freely. more than two years later, i see that the situation has not changed for the better. freedom of religion is still not a reality in vietnam and cases of arrest of buddhist monks, for example, are increasing. at the dawn of vietnam's presidency of asean - and while i would like to commend its efforts in the fields of health, education and reducing inequalities - we wish, through this resolution, to remind vietnam of the importance of human rights and ask it to set an example as the future president of asean. i am also pleased that the lao government has ratified the international covenant on civil and political rights. i therefore hope that this pact can be fully respected, particularly as regards freedom of expression and assembly. finally, we call on the lao government to do everything possible to release all those arrested on 2 november 2009 during the attempted peaceful demonstration, as well as the leaders of the 26 october 1999 student movement.
author. - mr president, my group has withdrawn its signature from the china resolution. why would you do that? it is not because we regard human rights as minor and subordinate to commercial interests that we have tabled a socialist and democratic resolution, without concession, which shows our commitment, but because to obtain a change in behaviour on the part of china, dialogue is necessary, and this erratic, unstructured resolution ruins any chance of dialogue. for everything has been put in it - tibet, the dalai lama and his successor, the religious crusade and even, if we were allowed to do so, criticism of any communist regime present, past and future. is this some kind of doorway? no, i'm not going. the tragedy is that it will close on those very people whom we are trying to save today, that is, the uyghurs and tibetans who are threatened with execution today. i'm advocating that china stop being afraid of free speech, that it opens up to the world, not just through trade, through culture, but also through a sharing of core values. i call on the commission to put the question of the abolition of the death penalty on the agenda of the next eu-china summit on 30 november, and i ask the commission and the council to continue to seek to include in the new partnership currently being negotiated the clause on respect for human rights in china.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president, i would remind you that my group decided not to take part in the vote for the reasons i have mentioned earlier. so no abstention, but no participation as well.
i would also like to mention, mr president, the decision of the supreme court of turkey last friday to ban the dtp, which has resulted in no less than 22 members of parliament being either expelled from parliament or deprived of their political rights for five years. unfortunately, the same fate is also facing leyla zana, who received our sakharov prize in 1995. it is the fourth time that a kurdish party has been banned and every time kurds try to defend the rights of their people under a different name and every time they are beaten down because they are supposedly preaching ideas that are against the unity of the turkish state. but it is the essence of democracy that people can come together and that people can express their opinions. the so-called democratic opening that erdogan launched earlier this year on the kurdish question is therefore very much in disbelief and i very much support mr ludford's request to have a debate on this in january.
mr president, since 2007, rail freight transport has been subject to total liberalisation of supply. operators without a public service mission are now exposed to increased competition. in many countries this has resulted in an increase in supply in the most profitable market segments, namely combined transport and whole train transport. on the other hand, transport by the technique of subdivision, often called "diffuse traffic", is of little interest to private companies in view of its more than limited profitability. if we really want to develop rail freight as a driver of sustainable mobility, it is imperative to support diffused traffic, otherwise it will disappear completely in favour of road, which would be contrary to our co2 emission reduction objectives. support for diffused traffic must therefore be considered as a public service mission as an integral part of a sustainable mobility strategy. in the context of the european commission guidelines describing the conditions for state intervention, it seems to us quite possible to include support for broadcasting, either as compensation for public service obligations or as aid to the ... (the president withdrew the speaker)
madam president, commissioner, i thank you for your explanation of the various price variations in the various agricultural products. your conclusion was that we need to continue to be vigilant and take action if necessary. you are indeed pointing to volatility, which is the main enemy of the modern farmer, and i would simply like to argue for the need to restore and maintain a public policy of price fixing, of regulation, and for the need, in the future certainly, of this public policy of regulation through, for example, a price and margin observatory, which would set prices fairly for each of the actors in production, whether producers, processors or distributors. today, if we leave this to private regulation, we will always find that there is a margin for the distributor, a margin for the processor and a loss for the producer, and therefore a great difficulty for local agriculture. we cannot ignore the fact that, particularly in the case of the price of wheat, which is fixed in chicago - and i will conclude, madam president - we must also be able to negotiate across the atlantic, because the problem is global and not just european.
mr president, i would first like to make an alarming observation and propose what might be a remedy. firstly, the alarming observation i make is that the wto is sadly failing to achieve the objective for which it was created and set up, namely to reduce poverty in the poorest countries. this has been repeatedly mentioned here. today, however, a billion people suffer from malnutrition, including 700 million farmers. the remedy, from the agricultural point of view, is that we must certainly stop the monoculture for export, especially on the african continent, and give priority to subsistence agriculture in these countries instead of giving it to international trade. either we continue in the same direction and the african continent will continue to sink, or we change course radically and we can start to breathe, especially on the african continent thanks to, i repeat, subsistence agriculture which must have priority over international trade.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the number of calls for funds is increasing. this is due in large part to the economic crisis our continent is going through. this crisis affects the key sectors of european industry, as shown by the three most recent applications for the automobile and construction sectors, for which a favourable opinion was given. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that without the last revision of the fund regulation, in which the reason for the economic crisis was added to the eligibility criteria, many of the applications which we are receiving at present would not have been able to receive a favourable response from a legal point of view. this shows that, in the face of the crisis, in this institution of the european parliament, when good political wills meet, high-quality political instruments are put at the service of our fellow citizens. and goodwill can still be found, because i see, when i read mr böge's report, that the essential points for improving the functioning of the fund are there: speeding up the processing of applications to be reactive to the crisis, eliminating joint applications, using funding other than that of the european social fund. on this last point, the best solution would be to give the fund full payment appropriations, on a par with the other funds, but we know the council's position on this subject and i understand the commissioner's intervention. i am pleased to see the convergence of goodwill. in this respect, the undoubted usefulness of this fund, combined with the will of parliament, will, i am sure, lead to the achievement of our objectives of strengthening this fund.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the safety of children, who are ultimately our smallest and most vulnerable consumers, has always been a priority for the epp group and for all of us here, and it is precisely for this reason that we adopted a new and strict toy directive a year ago. the commissioner and his services, the council presidency and the members of parliament from all political groups worked together very well, and we were able to complete this enormous task quickly, in one reading. in each of our institutions we were convinced that we had drawn up the strictest legislation in the world, legislation that was followed closely as far as china and the united states. we have been very careful in this parliament with regard to third party certification and we have been very strict with regard to the standards for chemicals, i am thinking of allergens, i am thinking of heavy metals. for the cmr we opted for a total ban with only exceptions under very strict conditions. it is a legislation with a transitional period, but that is logical, that is inherent in the system and it is a transitional period which is far shorter than what the industry claimed to be able to cope with. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i have heard the commissioner, i have believed the commissioner and i can see that the european commission is doing what it has to do. if we do find violations on the ground, i think we should be reassured in that sense, that we know that there is market surveillance and that market surveillance works. so we have two questions: is the legislation still up to date and is the market surveillance adequate? if we get a yes on both counts, then we have to make it clear to the people that they need not worry and then we really do not have to give in to populism.
mr president, one minute's speaking time to talk about a budget of 141 billion euros, and we have to confine ourselves to the essential point, namely that so-called european money is actually used less efficiently and less carefully at all levels, at community level, at national level, at regional level, and even at a lower level, than money that comes closer to the taxpayer. an example. according to the european court of auditors itself, until recently some 11% of the huge cohesion funds were paid out in a completely unfair way. the amount for 2010 is about 4 billion euro. it's not nothing. that is unconscionable and unacceptable. we have now allocated an additional 2.4 billion euros for the economic recovery plan for 2010. i am not against this, but i still wonder whether the european level is adequate for this and whether europe should not limit itself to the efficient coordination of concrete and decisive national measures. finally, i continue to oppose the enormous waste that is the hallmark of all the european institutions.
in writing. − microcredit is an interesting tool to provide financial support to people who are at risk of losing their jobs, to the unemployed or to social economy enterprises in times of crisis. i voted against because it is uncertain whether this instrument will be financed with fresh money. the existing progress programme, which started in 2007 with actions on poverty reduction, anti-discrimination, social inclusion, gender equality and employment, may be used. taking money out of poverty programs to fight poverty is not a good strategy. the council of ministers in particular does not want to hear of a separate budget. the member states are clearly lacking in political courage. to start at the beginning of 2010, €25 million will be released from the eu budget for 2010. the financing for the next three years (2011-2013) is currently not subject to agreement between parliament and the council. we need a sustainable strategy in europe, not a one-off injection like this initiative. the microfinance instrument lacks coherence and a long-term vision. in addition, microcredit can already be granted under the european social fund. the european globalisation adjustment fund also provides for this possibility. so that's a big no.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. this situation is of course very worrying. if we look at the numbers: a government deficit of 12.7% and a government debt that threatens to exceed 130%. that is exactly the situation i found myself in, mr president, when i became the young budget minister in belgium in 1985 - the exact same figures, i will never forget them, namely, a 12.7% government deficit. it is therefore clear that the greeks will have to make a serious effort and implement reforms which have not been implemented so far. but we can do something, mr president of the commission. we can ensure that the cost of the public debt of the various member states can be reduced by finally establishing a european bond market which will cover a large part of that public debt. we are paying several hundred billion euros too much interest on our public debt today because we don't have a eurobond market and all those markets remain segmented with a huge liquidity shortage. my question is whether you will take the initiative to finally launch such a eurobond market, which could help, but which does not mean that the greeks should not make their efforts, which could help.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. i shall be back in a moment, mr president. a eurobond market could be a help to greece. it does not mean that they should not carry out their reforms, but it would also help all the other member states of the union, because it would mean that the debt would have to pay a much lower interest rate. let us compare the german interest to be paid with an american interest. the americans pay 0.4% less interest on their treasury bills than the germans, despite the fact that german public finances are much better than american ones. that is the proof that we must urgently and absolutely move in that direction. i expect the commission to do that.
mr barroso, the lisbon strategy has come to life. the european union will not be the most competitive economy from 1 january next. forgive my harshness, but we can almost speak of a mirage. what we need to do now is to ensure that in the years ahead, by 2010, it looks more like an oasis of stability for europe's entrepreneurs and citizens. in this connection, i read in your memo that you are talking about internationalising smes, the eu's leading job creators. do you not think, mr president, that the urgent need is to stabilize today, to reassure? and can you today give a guarantee that the commission will oppose any regulatory frenzy and apply the principle of 'think small first' in all its policies on a daily basis?
mr president, mr president of the commission, i would like to ask you, in the context of this 2020 strategy and, in particular, of the strengthened governance system, what place do you want to give to the question of lobbies? you know as well as i do that if we are to develop a 2020 strategy, there will inevitably be lobbying in all directions. it is everywhere, on the commission, on parliament, on the council. you also know that there is an interinstitutional discussion today on the question of lobbies. mr kallas was in charge of this in the previous commission. i would like you to tell me who will be the commissioner in charge of this lobbying issue, and what will be his mandate. do you want to move - as i and other members of this interinstitutional group do - towards a system of compulsory registration of lobbies? this is the condition for transparency and, in my view, it is also the condition for the citizens' participation, who must be able to understand how decisions are taken at european level by the commission, the council or parliament.
president of the commission. − first of all, in the 2020 strategy, our idea is precisely to have national programmes, but also horizontal european community-wide programmes. we are going to ask every member state to put forward specific, simplified objectives for each country, taking into consideration their different circumstances. as you have mentioned, greece is in a specific situation today, and we are being very attentive to it. greece will, of course, go on benefiting from cohesion funds as it is one of the countries benefiting from those cohesion funds, and this is separate from the european union 2020 strategy. however, it is important to understand why countries like greece have to correct their deficits and their excessive debts. the interest countries pay for debt is money they cannot put into their hospitals or schools for the future. it is not because that we are attached to an idea of rigid macroeconomic discipline that we recommend member states not to maintain very high debt and deficit levels, but because we are thinking about social expenditure and addressing people’s concerns.
president barroso, i would like to ask you a question about the future of the automobile sector, which is one of the most important industrial sectors, of course, also after 2020. some of our crown jewels are about to be sold off to china, and that is not a happy development. i think it is not too late to reverse it, but then we, then you, mr president, then the new european commission must urgently go into a higher gear. we must therefore devote more resources to research and development, with a greater focus on the motor vehicle sector and, of course, more financial resources from the european investment bank. i believe that this is the only way to avoid the replacement of our present dependence on oil in the future by a new dependence on, for example, chinese electric batteries. hence my question: are you prepared to coordinate with the european commission in the near future, also in the opel case, so that we can make a firm, vigorous and joint commitment to this new and environmentally friendly technology in the car sector?
on behalf of the alde group. - madam president, madam high representative/vice-president of the commission, madam representative of the swedish presidency, i would like to begin with you, mrs malmström, to congratulate the entire swedish presidency on the council conclusions on the conflict in the middle east in general and east jerusalem in particular. i think it is an important sign for everyone that for the first time, and precisely now that the treaty of lisbon has entered into force, a joint report by the heads of the eu delegations on east jerusalem has been unanimously approved and adopted. it is also a sign that the conclusions proposed by the swedish presidency have been unanimously adopted, including those concerning east jerusalem. i hope the israeli authorities realise the importance of this development. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the middle east for many years. unfortunately, there are also reasons for despair. we, of course, continue to hope. it is also of the utmost importance to my group that both israelis and palestinians can live side by side in peace in two separate states, have all the opportunities for development and guarantee each other's security. i think we can all agree on that. we all agree on the steps that would ideally lead to this and we are naturally prepared to contribute to it. jerusalem is one of the most beautiful cities in the world and as a city it is indeed something very special. it is therefore incredibly tragic that the people living side by side there are unable to do so peacefully, and for the sake of the safety and preservation of jerusalem i hope that in these days before christmas we will succeed.
president, the heads of the european union delegations in jerusalem and ramallah have made it very clear in their report of 23 november that israel is actively engaged in the illegal annexation of east jerusalem and the complete isolation of the rest of the west bank. i wonder why the foreign affairs council is not drawing the right conclusions here. why does one put aside such an important factual report, of one's own making - and i am speaking particularly of the specific recommendations - so as to ignore the fact that the commission has already made a number of recommendations, and that it is not in a position to do so? the european union is fully aware of the irreversible nature of the current developments, which may even cast serious doubt on the possibility of establishing an independent and viable palestinian state alongside the state of israel. the middle east peace process has no message in the form of a few words. it is more than ever the time and the right moment for the european union to play an active and visible role in the region, and this can only be done if we also have the courage to send clear and unambiguous agreements to the world, especially when it comes to east jerusalem.
mr president, mr le hyaric has almost doubled his speaking time, so i feel i am entitled not to push the pace too far, but i will go straight to the point. the swedish presidency had accustomed us to better, much better. madam minister, dear cecilia, forgive me for being frank. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the european parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission will be consulted on the matter, and the council will be consulted on the matter. many member states have taken the initiative to distance themselves from this first draft of the text. so yes, of course, a thousand times yes to an open capital, a shared capital, this sharing which, since the 2000s now, is part of the clinton parameters for a negotiated peace, a principle which was accepted by ehud barak in taba, and by others as well. and we also remember, in this very chamber, the vigorous way in which it was defended by avraham burg and ahmed korei. jerusalem, three times holy, capital of books, open capital. the only thing is that our role is not to impose sharing, timing and modalities, but, as has been said before, to encourage dialogue to enable the parties concerned, palestinians and israelis, to reach a conclusion.
author. - mr president, madam president of the european union, i would first like to thank and congratulate my fellow rapporteurs, mrs bozkurt and mrs striffler. i fully agree with the conclusions of the libe and juri committees and those of parliament's legal service. since respect for human rights is one of the union's founding values, it is essential that these rights be fully respected. measures taken in the fight against terrorism must be proportionate, appropriate and effective. in the context of respect for fundamental rights and the rights of the defence, access to personal data by data subjects and the communication of the grounds on which the measure is based are essential steps in the process of drawing up the measure. as sanctions and blacklists are temporary, i believe that careful and serious monitoring should be carried out and that regular evaluation is necessary with mandatory information to parliament. while the measures taken, particularly in the cases concerning zimbabwe and somalia, can be welcomed, it must nevertheless be borne in mind that these sanctions must not in any way be an obstacle to the development, democracy and human rights missions carried out by humanitarian organisations, nor have any adverse consequences for the local populations. finally, as regards the protection of personal data, i fully agree with the conclusions of the european data protection supervisor on the collection, processing and transfer of such data.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the reason we have called for this debate, with other members present, is because a new iron curtain has appeared with the economic crisis, commissioner. this iron curtain on monetary level separates those outside the euro area from those inside. many of the problems that affect most of the baltic states today, for example - you mentioned poland, but i can of course mention bulgaria, romania, hungary - are due to the fact that they are not in the euro zone. they must therefore continue to use their local currency, which has had a negative, devastating effect for the time being. we can talk about economic recovery, but in these countries there is no economic recovery at the moment. they have unemployment rates which in some countries exceed 20%. in some of these countries, public sector wages have had to be cut by more than 20%. the figures are really very negative as far as their economic growth is concerned. the important thing is to enable them to enter the euro area as quickly as possible. however, they are now suffering the ill effects of this situation. the idea is not, of course, to change the terms of the stability pact - nobody has asked for that. we should not do that, because, as you rightly said, the euro area has been a defense against the economic and financial crisis. but we must still help these countries in another way, not by changing the conditions of the stability pact, but by compensating for the negative effect they suffer from being outside the system. otherwise, it will be several years before they join the euro area. we have made a number of suggestions, we have drawn up a six-point plan and we ask the european commission to take this into account. we therefore need cooperation between the european central bank, the european commission and the european investment bank. what measures should be taken in this context? first, the central bank must also provide liquidity to local banks. it has given liquidity to banks in western europe, it has also given funds indirectly to swedish banks, for example, but some local banks have received nothing from the european central bank. these six points include other proposals. for example, why not increase the share of eu funding and reduce the share of state funding for social, regional, cohesion funds, etc.? the member states do not currently have the budgetary means to finance certain projects. we could therefore, for example, move towards 75% financing by europe and 25% by the member states, particularly the baltic states. i shall take only two of the six very concrete ideas which we have put forward and which can be decided by the european central bank or by the commission, by the european investment bank. that is what these countries need. i personally do not regard it as progress that the international monetary fund intervenes in these countries and dictates to them what to do. i think it is up to europe to decide what needs to be done. that is our request. in any case, i was there and i was shocked by the fact that these people feel abandoned by the european union in their daily struggle. i urge the next european commission to come back with a credible plan for the central and eastern european states, and more particularly for the baltic states.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the commission's statement on european action for victims of terrorism.
these speeches are very dignified and emotional, because i believe that you have spoken on behalf of those who can no longer speak today, and i thank you on behalf of the presidency.
in order not to pass without transition to a completely different debate, i propose a moment of silence in memory of the victims. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i have received, in accordance with rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, six motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2009. the commission shall be assisted by the committee of the regions.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all, i will not be speaking this morning about institutional matters as has already been done. we shall certainly have time to do so, since the council will apparently be asking for the implementation of a protocol which requires an intergovernmental conference. we must consider whether we want a conference or not. i think that in the european parliament we will still have some ideas on this subject to advance european democracy and compensate for the lack of transparency and democracy in the proposed co-operations. that said, i would like to thank the presidency, prime minister reinfeldt and cecilia malmström for the excellent relations they have had with parliament and the good management of very difficult cases - i am of course talking about the ratification of the lisbon treaty. we even had to go around the klaus obstacle. we shall now talk about the klaus problem and how the swedish presidency has dealt with it very well. secondly, i think the other most important element is the stockholm programme, which has been adopted and must now be implemented. but, of course, mr reinfeldt, for you the presidency does not end today, since there is still the copenhagen summit, where you must make progress. i would like to deliver an optimistic and voluntary message to this house today, which is somewhat contrary to what we are reading in the press today. the press is pessimistic at the moment: will we reach an agreement or not? i think it's possible because there are serious partners that we have to try to find and motivate. the fact that president obama and the chinese premier are arriving tomorrow and the day after is a testament to their willingness to reach an agreement. i think we need to have a strategy. but what strategy, ladies and gentlemen? i think we need to follow a strategy where we try to set up a triangular cooperation between the united states, china and europe. if these three, in the next two days, find a beginning of agreement, then we will have a serious basis to convince the others - india, brazil, the other countries - to join this effort. i therefore call for a voluntary approach. the first thing to do is to seek the triangular alliance needed to reach an agreement and to propose from the outset a 30% reduction in emissions. we must be voluntary in this proposal. i think we must be guided in this final phase of the negotiations in copenhagen by hegel, who said that it is not the impossible that gives up hope, but what was possible and was not achieved. i believe that the tenacity of the swedish presidency will enable us to achieve success at the copenhagen summit.
mr president, on this resolution on the world trade organization, and contrary to the opinion of the previous speaker, i do not think that it is international trade that will cause fewer than one billion people to die or suffer from malnutrition, but rather subsistence agriculture, well before international trade. i have already had the opportunity to express myself in this way during the debate, and since, in particular, the amendment concerning public services and the need for governments to be able to control public services on fundamental issues such as water, energy, was rejected, for that reason alone, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. i voted against the joint resolution on the outlook for the doha action plan for development in the wake of the seventh wto ministerial conference. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. more specifically, because, while it is vital to conclude the doha round, this cannot be done at any price. world trade must take account of the european specificity of historical cooperation with the poorest countries. i would also like to say that i do not share the views expressed in this resolution on agriculture or the liberalization of services, especially since not all the amendments seeking to balance the text were accepted. for example, there is no question of accepting an intensification of negotiations in the services sector (in order to achieve greater liberalisation). finally, i regret that the resolution has agreed to a strengthening of bilateral free trade agreements. this type of agreement is often much more unfavourable to developing countries, which, when faced alone with the eu, have much more limited negotiating capacity and tend to find themselves cornered.
in writing. in the era of globalisation, an effective system of trade regulation is more relevant than ever. this is the role of the world trade organization, which was set up in 1995 to replace gatt. as the joint resolution tabled by the right of the house, which i supported this afternoon, underlines, the wto has a vital role to play in ensuring that globalisation is better managed and that the benefits of globalisation are distributed more fairly. it is clear that those who advocate protectionism and withdrawal from the world are wrong when they turn the wto into the fatal weapon of unbridled liberalization. it was the current president of this un body, pascal lamy, who indicated the course to be followed in 1999, that of a controlled globalisation. the european parliament proposes concrete solutions to this problem: full tax-free and quota-free market access for the least developed countries, completion of the doha round for developing countries, environmental and social standards, and a limited mandate for the commission on agricultural matters. this is also a reminder that the european union must put its political objectives first and not just trade objectives.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, i have always been very attentive to what is happening in the east of the drc. despite the promising progress made by the recent rapprochement between rwanda and the drc - a rapprochement without which there will be no solution in the east and which must therefore be consolidated - the situation in the east remains a matter of grave concern, despite the agreements reached on 23 march between kinshasa and the congolese rebel group, the commissioner said. i would like to mention seven considerations. the first is that until the fdlr is rendered incapable of doing harm, it will probably be impossible to pacify eastern congo. unfortunately, the first victims of the military pressure that the drc is currently exerting to cut off these extremists from their bases and sources of funding are the civilian populations, victims of the collateral damage, but also of the vengeance of some and the exactions of others. this risk was foreseeable and, as the commissioner said, the capacity of monuc had to be strengthened from the outset, since it still lacks adequate resources to cope with all the demands and its organisation on the ground is not always ideal. while we must demand better coordination and a more effective and wider presence on the ground, it would be dangerous to make judgments or statements about monuc that could give some negative forces an argument to demonize it. and that, of course, would be even more serious. the fardc has also been accused of committing atrocities. the context of the war can of course in no way justify such behaviour, and i welcome the decision of the united nations to stop providing logistical support to congolese units which do not respect human rights. the zero tolerance policy recently introduced by president kabila is obviously to be welcomed. it must still be respected and implemented. the shortcomings of the congolese justice system create a widespread sense of impunity. that is why i support the efforts of the commission, in close cooperation with some of the member states of the european union, to work towards the restoration of a judicial system, including in the east. finally, the last element: what remains to be rebuilt in the congo is a state of law with genuine royal functions which, today, are totally non-existent and therefore create an extremely serious vacuum.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, madam president, the situation in kivu you both said is extremely worrying, despite the presence of almost 20 000 monuc troops. the civilian population, and particularly women, are the first victims of the war strategies of armed groups and even some units, as we have said, of the congolese army, which have made systematic rape a weapon of war. in fact, here last month a group of congolese women came to remind us, and rightly so, to mobilize against this outrageous strategy. the plundering of resources, as you said, mr commissioner, is also an element that exacerbates this conflict. i agree with what has just been said: it is totally dangerous to discredit monuc, to discredit it unnecessarily, to make it solely responsible for the situation in the eyes of populations already exhausted by so many years of war and massacres. it is not his mandate that needs to be reviewed and we should obviously not demand his withdrawal, i fully agree. what needs to be reviewed are its rules of engagement, its operational guidelines, so that in no way can monuc be associated with or support a congolese unit which has men in its ranks who practice human rights violations or extortion. the congolese authorities also have a great responsibility in the fight against impunity for sexual violence, crimes which should be brought before the international criminal court. the same authorities must also ensure that the military are housed urgently. if they were in the barracks, things might have gone differently. finally, i think we must return to the amani programme, which offers the possibility of building dialogue and pacification everywhere, the only guarantees of sustainable reconstruction. in any case, i welcome your intervention, which i very much share, and i hope that the european union will remain active. it is essential, even if it has not wanted to be a force, and i regret that. that would have been a possibility a little less than a year ago. nevertheless, i think that action by the european union is indispensable.
mr president, in view of the alarmist reports recently received in north and south kivu, in view of the extreme violence of the attacks on civilians and, more specifically, on women, children and the elderly, the emergency so often mentioned by the european union and the entire international community in relation to the congo seems to me to be necessarily immediate. every effort must be made to ensure the protection of the civilian population. the mandate of monuc in the country will undoubtedly be extended, but it must also be reassessed and strengthened in order to stem the tide of violence. for many years, international communities, ngos and congolese women have been making unremitting efforts to combat the use of this sexual weapon of war, which is now systematic and widespread in peaceful areas, always in a context of total impunity. i welcome the recent determination of the congolese authorities to put an end to this impunity, but this zero tolerance policy must be ambitious - all perpetrators, without exception, must be held to account - and truly effective. the opening of the first trials of those suspected of committing sexual crimes in the context of armed conflict at the international criminal court should lead to the possibility for the court to identify all those responsible so that they can be tried as soon as possible. finally, all this goes hand in hand with strengthening state structures, maintaining order, promoting gender equality and protecting the human rights of women and children, whose dignity, childhood or innocence are often sacrificed on the altar of another humiliation: indifference.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all the speakers have rightly stressed the terrible situation facing the congolese people, and especially the congolese women, in the east of the country. they spoke of the rape, the brutality and the murder they suffered. but rather than talk about it, i invite you to visit the websites of unicef and v-day, which are obviously very informative in this regard. today i'm going to talk about the practical consequences of these barbaric acts on congo, women who are physically and mentally injured, who need to be treated, women who are murdered, who will no longer be able to participate in the economic development of congo, as well as their children who will never be born. i would also like to speak about the spread of aids, a trauma suffered by the entire congolese population, which reflects negatively on the international scene, in short, a congo that is sinking further and further. the promotion of stable peace and economic development in the congo can only be achieved if the congolese government and the un effectively combat sexual violence against congolese women and, more generally, ensure the establishment of a real rule of law in the country.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, i too would like to speak about the tragedy of sexual violence against women in the drc, particularly in the east of the country. the phenomenon is not new. it's extremely complex. it is multidimensional. the physical suffering, the psychological suffering of the victims is further aggravated by this social exclusion, which is tragic for them. today, president kabila's zero tolerance policy is timidly bearing its first fruits, but everyone is aware that only a comprehensive strategy can fight this scourge in the long term. i know, commissioner, that the commission is already involved, through a multitude of projects and budgets too. but in the face of the figures, in the face of the terrible, atrocious testimonies we hear, do you not think that we have the right here to ask ourselves about the results of this strategy? women, commissioner, are the main vehicle for peace and reconstruction in a country. they are the future of the congo. what are your intentions to do better and to do it faster?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, belgium is one of the five member states which have not yet fully transposed the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. but according to the information i have, it has only to solve the problem of the travel industry to comply with european law. apart from the difficulties inherent in the belgian institutional system in transposing the various european directives, it seems that the directive in question is particularly complex. this has already been mentioned. belgium is not the only country affected by the non-transposition, the incorrect transposition or the partial transposition of directives. i therefore call on the european commission to support member states in difficulty in the interests of professionals. the latter should be able to benefit from the free movement of persons and the freedom of establishment, which, i would remind you, are the main objective of this directive.
in writing. i voted with determination for the european parliament's ambitious resolution on citizens' access to documents. because it's always important to remember that transparency is a key to democracy. access to eu information is too often a cumbersome process for the average citizen. and also because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december is a major change in the situation. citizens' access to documents of the european institutions, whatever their medium, is now a right enshrined in article 42 of the charter of fundamental rights. citizens who see their rights extended to the council's legal opinions with, in return, obligations extended to all the european institutions. this vote also celebrates all the work done by my political group, which has always been at the forefront of this fight. in this connection, nine months ago parliament adopted the marco cappato report and called for greater transparency, openness and democratic representativeness in the council's activities. this institution has a moral obligation to make its decisions and debates public. it is simply a democratic requirement that it owes to the citizens.
in writing. i welcome the vote on this resolution. today, despite the goma conference on peace, stability and development and the conclusion of a ceasefire agreement in january 2008, violent fighting continues in eastern drc, resulting in the worst abuses against the civilian population, especially women, children and the elderly. this sexual violence is becoming systematic and is now perpetrated not only by the belligerents but also by civilians. the eu is also committed to the implementation of the un charter on the rights of persons with disabilities. the congolese authorities have recently shown their determination to put an end to impunity. but this zero tolerance policy must not only be ambitious, all perpetrators of extortion without exception will have to be held accountable, but also really effective! we, as european parliamentarians, must remind ourselves of the need to respect these international obligations, such as human rights and gender equality, in order to preserve the dignity of women and the innocence of many congolese children.
in writing. - the continuing killings, crimes against humanity, the recruitment of child soldiers and acts of sexual violence against women and girls in the drc must not leave us indifferent. further efforts are needed to put an end to the activities of foreign armed groups in the east of the drc. the international community must not stand by and watch the march 2009 ceasefire agreements being implemented effectively and in good faith. two recent reports by the un high commissioner for human rights show that the humanitarian situation is deteriorating dramatically. monuc plays an incredibly important role, but its mandate and rules of engagement must be implemented effectively and continuously to ensure the safety of the population in a more effective way. the presence of monuc remains necessary. every effort must be made to ensure that the un force can fully implement its mandate to protect all those in danger. the council should take the lead and ensure that the un security council supports monuc by strengthening its operational capacity and better defining its priorities - currently 41 - .
