ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, four schools in the city of burgas condemned those who were defiled with racist slogans. their facades are spray-painted with the words "bulgars of soap" and "death to the gyarists". gyaur is an offensive turkish term used during the ottoman empire to refer to non-muslims under its rule and those of non-turkish origin. the guy in the turkish mentality is considered a half-man, that's the most disgusting racist insult in the turkish language. the same word "gyurî" was used by former agriculture minister nihat kabil and turkish administrators in the ministry of agriculture against bulgarians who came to the ministry, and then served the turks with preference. ladies and gentlemen, let this case be a warning to you of the turkish mentality in the 21st century. this example alone shows that turkey has no place in the european union because it is a racist and xenophobic state that supports and promotes racism and xenophobia in its neighbouring countries. this case shows that not only are bulgarians not a source of hatred, but that they are victims of hatred and ethnic intolerance. the european parliament has always been firmly against racism and ethnic intolerance. i urge you, as its members, to do it again and support our written declaration against turkish racism against bulgarians.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the gas crisis that struck europe in early 2009 has quickly reached the scale of a crisis for bulgaria, for which there is no alternative to aid gas supplies. i will not discuss outrageously the short-sighted decision of the rulers in bulgaria to put my country as a hostage in the conflict between russia and ukraine, as it is obvious to all. what's more important now is to decide to put in place measures to contain the crisis. this may in this case mean for bulgaria only finding an alternative to break free from external dependence. i therefore believe that it is imperative for europe and the balkan countries that bulgaria follows the example of slovakia and takes a decision to restart units i, ii, iii and iv of the kozloduy npp. this is the only chance for bulgaria to gain a little independence and reduce both the direct damage and the damage that it will suffer from the fuel oil currently used, and as a substitute for gas.
in writing. i would like to congratulate ms grabowska on her excellent report, which i am sure will contribute to the improvement and development of civil dialogue. there is much to be said for the development of dialogue between citizens and institutions in the european union. as the chair of a civil society organisation in bulgaria, i am deeply convinced that this is one of the most important elements for the future development of europe, which urgently needs to be reformed and improved. i believe that with this report the european parliament is giving the necessary guidance and recommendations to the other institutions, but also to civil society organisations, because without their cooperation and participation the objective we have set ourselves will be impossible. the report proposes a dialogue on an equal footing, respecting the diversity and independence of the many associations, and will help civil participation in the political process to cope with the serious challenges it faces, both at national and european level. because it is very important to find a differentiated approach that delivers results at the local level because of the different levels of development, both in different countries and in different sectors. i trust that the other institutions and the member states will take our recommendations into account as soon as possible, even if the treaty of lisbon does not enter into force soon.
thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr coelho, on the balance he has struck in his report between ensuring greater security for international travel documents and protecting the personal data and privacy of european union citizens. the proposed improvement of a number of technical requirements will contribute to combating cross-border crime, illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. for border countries such as bulgaria, which are under increased pressure from migration flows and international organised crime activity, the successful and early introduction of the new standards will be key to protecting the union's external borders. in my country, unfortunately, we have several serious cases of missing children, of which there is still no information. i therefore believe that the report provides a good guide for the future development of standards for security badges and biometric data in the passports of the youngest europeans. the introduction of the 'one person, one passport' principle will provide them with even greater security when travelling outside the european union. the proposal to introduce additional information in the passports of children under 18 will limit the possibilities for their illicit trafficking. of course, when implementing the directive in their national legislation, member states must take account of the possible economic consequences for large families. this was also mentioned by one of the speakers before me, a colleague. the freedom of movement of these families should not be restricted by the obligation to pay a high price for passports for their children. finally, with regard to the free movement of persons within the european union, i believe that the age limits for obtaining an identity card can be removed, thus promoting and ensuring free movement for the youngest citizens of the union.
mr president, i would also like to congratulate mr lambsdorff for the excellent work he has done and of course his shadows, particularly, mrs cederschiöld, but let me also underline something that mr toubon said: the fantastic work done by the french presidency in achieving agreement on this directive. i hope that when we return to it in a few years’ time we will realise that we should not have been afraid to talk about a european defence equipment market because of a common european market. it is in the common defence interest of europe and it is in the common interest of europe to have more competition. let me highlight one part of this directive which is highly important for many member states. this is particularly the text concerning subcontracting. i am very happy that the agreements reached with the council and the commission on the text concerning subcontracting have reflected to a large extent what parliament has been pushing for, namely that there is more transparency in terms of subcontracting; secondly, that there is no discrimination on a national basis when subcontracts are being drafted and finally that national authorities have the ability to allow contractors to subcontract up to 30% of their contracts. this is in the interests of bringing our industry together across europe.
in writing. i am convinced that defence and security are of paramount importance to each of the member states, but above all they are areas of interest to all citizens in the european union as well as to the european defence industry. of course, the possibility of derogating from this directive will continue to exist and it is therefore of the utmost importance to urge member states to improve their public procurement legislation in the field of national security. they should only benefit from the possibility under article 296 of the treaty on european union provided that they have ensured a similar level of transparency, accountability, effectiveness and efficiency, including an adequate dispute resolution mechanism. i would like to say that a directive, however comprehensive and specific, cannot replace the need for a clear vision for the defence industry and the eu security industry more generally. the lack of vision and strategy cannot be compensated by rules and exceptions that will force states to 'trick' to protect private interests - wholesale or retail, depending on the size of their defence industry. it is therefore imperative to develop a strategy in this area, which will be in the interest of promoting european principles.
madam president, we have to admit that the czech presidency faced a very difficult beginning. the worsening economic crisis, the brutal military operation by israel and the biggest crisis so far in european gas supplies. your activity will become even more difficult with the rising political tensions related to the european election campaign. the end of your presidency will be marked by the election of 532 new meps. i underline this figure because it is not the one foreseen in the lisbon treaty. i think that the ratification of the treaty and its entry into force should be higher on your agenda both nationally and at european level. it may look as though you are unlucky to be leading the eu in such a situation, but every crisis is also an opportunity. use these opportunities. make the eu more active, visible and credible in the middle east. try to develop a more responsible eu policy on energy and energy supplies. do more to put the european economy back on track while preserving people’s jobs. mr topolánek, i would like to see another presidency by a new member state succeed. this is your special responsibility. this will prove that the newcomers are able not only to follow, but also to lead. the main prerequisite for success is to bring together all 27 member states and to make them unite around policies and actions. this will not be possible if there is no unity within your own country. the contradictory messages coming from different czech institutions harm your prospects of success, so please do your best to put an embargo on all internal political games. it is not easy in a pre-election situation, but slovenia is an example that you can follow. the second prerequisite is to unite behind you the main political parties in this parliament. for six months, you must forget your own political membership and hold a broad dialogue. this is something to be learned from the french presidency. finally, i would like to draw attention to the rise of extremism, anti-semitism and xenophobia in europe. the czech republic is also affected by this trend. i ask you to include this issue high on your agenda, particularly in view of the upcoming european elections. i wish you every success.
thank you, madam chairman. as a member of the european parliament from bulgaria, i welcome the czech presidency for putting energy and energy security among its key priorities. in recent days, a large number of european member states have been held hostage by the dispute between ukraine and russia. in bulgaria alone, more than 160,000 households were left without heating. unfortunately, the bulgarian government has been unable to help its citizens during this crisis. bulgaria was the only country in the union without alternative sources, suppliers and gas reserves. we should learn from this case. ladies and gentlemen, i think i speak for the whole of parliament when i say that we cannot allow european citizens to pay the price for the political games of countries using their energy resources as political tools. so i believe that we need sustainable energy solutions. we need a common european energy policy. an important element of this is the improvement of energy infrastructure. when we talk about european energy solidarity, we mean joint energy projects of the european union and avoidance of the current practice of bilateral negotiations. i also want to believe that it will not be long before it will be possible to build pan-european nuclear power stations in europe as joint projects of member states. in this context, i welcome the czech presidency's setting as another key priority the broadening of the aspects of cooperation with the countries of the south caucasus, ukraine and the balkans. only an integrated approach, taking account of the interests and the opportunities arising from them, both for the member states and for the countries of the regions concerned, can guarantee the overcoming and prevention of crises such as the gas crisis we have just experienced. we must act now and do what is best for the european union. the need for concrete action towards a common european energy policy is now greater than ever. i wish the czech presidency success.
thank you, madam chairman. i have received news that in brussels, under the auspices of the czech presidency, there is a so-called work of art on which my country, bulgaria, is depicted as a toilet. this is a terrible insult and does not correspond to the european union's traditions of partnership and mutual respect, and we therefore demand that this flag be immediately removed by the czech presidency and by anyone who has ever allowed himself to place such an insult on one of the member states that we cannot tolerate. and if it is not removed immediately, this man, my colleagues and i will go and remove it personally with our own hands.
in writing. the czech republic takes the helm of the eu at a time when europe is facing the challenges of the global financial crisis, the russian gas supply crisis and the gaza conflict. i believe that the ambitious programme of the czech presidency will be implemented in close cooperation with the european parliament and the european commission. europe must continue to take an active stance on all the issues on the agenda of the citizens of the community. energy security is a particularly pressing issue today and requires the mobilisation of the efforts of all member states. the suspension of russian gas supplies to european consumers in the face of the sub-zero temperatures that europe has experienced gives a new dimension to the concept of energy independence. the crisis situation requires member states to reduce their dependence on russian gas supplies and to look for alternatives. the citizens of a united europe expect the czech presidency to take an active stance and intervene to resolve this problem, which has long since moved beyond the framework of the trade dispute between russia and ukraine. i wish you success in your presidency.
thank you, mr. chairman. i voted against the coelho report for two reasons. the first is that i am extremely concerned about civil rights and that the collection of biometric data will significantly jeopardise the security of citizens, in particular in terms of freedom, and will also violate the fundamental human right of freedom of movement. but what worries me more is that in my country the introduction of new id cards will be the second time in the last 10 years. in nine years, i'll be personally taking out my id for the third time. it may seem funny to you, but in bulgaria people are on such low incomes that burdening them with the extra money they have to spend to buy new id cards is just not ethical, it's not moral to these people. when it comes to pensioners who take 100 leva, that's 50 euros pension, it's not right to ask them 20 euros to issue new identity documents. that is why i voted against the coelho report, because i think it is very inappropriate for my country.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, one thing that was mentioned at the beginning was whether we should contact hamas. i do not think it is yet time to do so. in the last months, hamas still definitely behaved as a terrorist organisation. as long as it behaves as such, it cannot be officially contacted by the representatives of the european union. i admit, being an old man, that i have seen many terrorist organisations during my time growing up from their beginnings, becoming more or less acceptable, and being accepted by the international community. i have seen it in africa. i have seen it in ireland. i have seen it in many places. that happens. but first of all they have to stop acting as a terrorist organisation. then i will be ready to speak with hamas or with anybody else, but not before they have given up acting as a terrorist organisation. i think it is important to state this, because the european union cannot give up its principles. there are ways of hearing what their ideas are, there are indirect contacts with politicians in the region who are in contact with them, which is important and good, but it is not yet time for the european union to have direct contacts with hamas. i think we should be adamant about that. in other respects, we should praise egypt very much for its important role in the last weeks and days for its efforts and hard work on achieving a ceasefire and maybe even an armistice with, at the very end of the process, peace in the region. i know how difficult the question is. we are in contact with the egyptians the whole time. we know what important work they are doing, and i would like to congratulate them. there was a question on how we can assist in the region. first of all, those who are on the spot will tell us clearly what they need. it is not for us to decide what we should give them. they have to ask us and the european union. many european union member states have stated their readiness to help in every possible way – technical ways, sending advisors, preparing whatever means are necessary – but this must, first of all, be with the consent of the relevant states there. that is the first task to be carried out. i heard one important suggestion, which was to prepare a marshall plan for the middle east. i think it is a very good idea and we should follow it. this region really needs a genuine build-up of the ideas which helped europe so much after the war. ms ferrero-waldner and others mentioned what the mission achieved. i think we achieved a lot, and i would like once again to commend ms ferrero-waldner, who did the main work in our delegation in the humanitarian sphere, where what we have achieved still works today. but, let us be clear, even these very difficult negotiations in the middle east are based on the design already structured during our delegation’s visit to the middle east. this basically deals with how to organise peace and what is necessary. our plan is based on what we found out then and discussed with our partners. there was a discussion about upgrading our relations with israel. as you know, that was a decision taken by the council of ministers of the european union in june 2008. this can be changed only if the ministers of the european union decide to alter the decision. it cannot be changed, even by the words of a very respectable representative of the european union in jerusalem. i admit that in the current situation it would be premature to discuss how to upgrade our relationship with israel and whether there should be a summit in the foreseeable future. for the moment we really have more urgent and more important questions to solve. again, i would state that the decision was taken by the council of ministers, and that is it. what can be done to stop israel? let us be frank – very little. israel acts as it acts and, being a lifelong friend of israel, which i state today and i state quite frankly, i am not so happy with what it is doing at the moment. i think its politics are also harming israel. that is one thing, but the european union does have very few possibilities, other than speaking very clearly and very honestly and asking our partners to stop it. the solution has to be found by our partners in the middle east, by israel, by egypt and the others involved. the european union can help there. the european union can assist by offering every type of help if a ceasefire is agreed to achieve the stated aims: closing the smuggling passes, closing the tunnels, guarding the sea etc. it can help in gaza in many ways, such as reconstruction or assisting with humanitarian aid. the european union can do all that, but, to be quite honest, we do not have the power and means to say ‘stop’. does parliament think we can send a huge armed force to the middle east to stop the fighting parties? no. we do not have the possibilities, and both israel and hamas are dependent on powers other than european powers. israel has mighty allies outside of europe too. there are limits on our power to achieve something. we can help, we can assist, we can offer our good services and we can be very engaged. in that respect, we have achieved quite a lot. but do not overstate our possibilities.
mr president, for all those who observe the israeli-palestinian conflict, this might be a time in which we are tempted to put our hands in the air and scream in despair. i do not think we should, however, because i think the greatest test of our humanity today is to really understand the issues at hand. the first issue is that there can be no lasting solution to this conflict without stopping the bombardment of israel. the second issue is that there cannot be a lasting solution to this conflict without opening gaza to humanitarian aid. indeed, president peres has been absolutely right in saying that gaza should be open for aid and not enclosed for rockets. i think this is quintessential, and everyone agrees to this. there cannot be a return to the status quo ante, and i think we could do a number of things here. firstly parliament can bring both sides together to talk; secondly we should stand behind the commission and the council and support their efforts; and finally we should firmly support the egyptian track of negotiations, because that is the only track that can lead to a solution and to the ceasefire which we currently all hope for.
thank you, mr. chairman. the gas crisis was felt to have hit bulgaria hardest. of course, the blame is yet to be established, both on the part of who is to blame for the gas cut and who is to blame for bulgaria's having insufficient reserves to withstand this gas crisis. but let's see what we can do in the future. one option is purely domestic and concerns finding an alternative source for bulgaria to meet its needs in similar other cases. but the other option we have at the moment is directly dependent on the will of the commission. we have, bulgaria has, a huge energy source that has now been closed for political reasons, and that source is called the kozloduy nuclear power plant. bulgaria has now activated coal-fired power plants that pollute the environment far more than any nuclear power plant, and i'm sure my green colleagues will agree with that. the cutting of the first four units of the kozloduy npp, which underwent dozens and dozens of inspections that proved that they were completely safe, was a huge mistake that caused huge losses to the bulgarian people, and now the bulgarian people continue to suffer further because they have nowhere to get energy. and that is why i am appealing to the commission: it is high time that you allowed both bulgaria and slovakia to open their fully safe nuclear power stations to meet their energy shortages.
thank you, mr chairman. at present, citizens of 18 member states are being held hostage in the political dispute between ukraine and russia. i say political dispute because we have all witnessed how gazprom and energy supplies from russia are being used as a political weapon to put pressure on a sovereign country. the citizens of europe are being held hostage. the supplies are coming from russia. the tap is off in russia. yes, ukraine bears some blame and i appeal to the council and to the european commission, tell our friends in ukraine, be clear and decisive that until they, the opposition and the government, take a united position on key issues of their development, they will not be able to cope with this pressure that is put on them, and on us, respectively. just as we in our countries have consensus on key issues, they should have consensus on key issues. secondly, gazprom owes damages to our countries, because at the moment bulgaria, the most affected country in europe, is totally dependent on the energy supply of gas in russia, it must seek its rights and it must seek them from the supplier, which in this case is the russian side. thirdly, energy in europe must be spoken with one voice and that voice must clearly say 'yes' to nuclear energy in europe, 'yes' to alternative energy sources, 'yes' to the different pipelines that make us less dependent on one supplier, 'yes' to the larger storage facilities, 'yes' to most connections between member states, in order to avoid this type of crisis. and finally, i want to say that here is a big criticism in our case suffered by the bulgarian government, which all the years in which it governs, hides the supply contracts with russia and did nothing to diversify the sources of supply of our country.
mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, as the representative of the party most affected, i call on you and the institutions you represent to take immediate action to restore supplies, using all political means and all grounds contained in international law. i hope that, on the basis of the principle of solidarity, the council and the commission will accept the bulgarian proposals to include in the unused 5 billion euro the projects for cross-border links between bulgaria and romania, bulgaria and greece, for expanding the capacity of the storage facility in chirin to meet the most urgent needs, and also for developing the possibilities for the joint use of liquefied gas terminals. as rapporteur for one of the documents in the third energy package, i believe that the issue of transparency and compliance is more important than any other issue related to the third country clause. i also hope that the commission will soon respond to the question i put to mrs podimata about the long-term measures that will be taken so that before the spring european council we can actually have a common policy and effective measures to deal with problems similar to those that have arisen at the moment, problems that were today called unprecedented, unfounded and incomprehensible by commissioner barroso.
despite an agreement between russia and ukraine to restore russian gas supplies to europe, our hopes of getting gas have once again been dashed. whatever the reasons, technical, financial, political, this unprecedented gas embargo cannot be justified. in a winter of record low temperatures, it is irresponsible and inhuman to condemn millions of european citizens to the cold. for bulgaria, as the most affected eu country, it is particularly important that the principle of pacta sunt servanda is respected and that gas supplies are restored immediately. for the damage and suffering caused to the people, and for the breach of contracts to be sought fair compensation. i congratulate the czech presidency on its active mediation role in overcoming the crisis. now more than ever, the european union needs to apply the old musketeer motto of solidarity 'one for all and all for one' and help financially affected countries like bulgaria with vital projects that will ensure its energy security. it is time to show the strength and unity of our alliance by adopting a long-term energy strategy.
ladies and gentlemen, in the face of the economic crisis and the serious consequences of the gas conflict, it is essential that all the national and european institutions work together. the scale of the problem requires a concentration of efforts and a coming together at supranational and supranational level on behalf of european citizens, their interests and their rights. alternative energy sources and new technologies will reduce our dependence on imported raw materials and energy. after the economic, social, environmental problems of the gas crisis. the switch of entire industries from gas to fuel oil, as happened in bulgaria, is slowing down the european union's plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we appreciate the timely intervention of the european institutions, but a priority partnership is needed to improve our energy independence. the european economic recovery plan should therefore take into account, through financial support, the current needs for the construction of alternative energy infrastructure, especially in the most dependent countries, such as bulgaria. we call on the european parliament to commit to a clear position allowing coordinated action by all institutions to resolve this gas crisis and prevent future ones.
madam president, generally speaking, i could agree with those colleagues who commended the active role of the czech presidency. however, i cannot agree with the political tone expressed by the deputy prime minister mr vondra in his introductory remarks. his political tone is too calm. yes, we have spoken, and we speak, with one voice, but this voice is not strong enough. because, when we consider the plight of the millions of citizens in europe suffering in this severe winter, we cannot be calm here. i wonder why it is so. we will have to act, and i agree with most of the colleagues who asked for an investigation, because we have to find out which of the two sides is more irresponsible. both are responsible! perhaps the reason for this calm political talk is the fact that now it concerns not only russia but also ukraine, and this is not correct. i really think that not only this parliament but also the presidency should raise its voice in the name of the citizens who are suffering.
in writing. it is very difficult to discuss the gas crisis when the council, the ep and the commission have been left with no choice but to end it. but the debate is very important, if not sufficient. i would like to thank all my colleagues from different political groups and member states for the support they have given to bulgaria and the other countries affected by the crisis. at the same time, this does not lead to the emergence of gas and the creation of normal european living conditions for our fellow citizens. as a result of this crisis, bulgaria has turned from an energy hub in the balkans into a gas crisis headquarters. that's why we need to act now. the consequences of the crisis are humanitarian and economic. adding to the financial and economic crisis, it's destabilizing our countries. the european parliament must adopt a resolution setting out its position and the measures it will take to overcome the crisis. today and now. and those measures should include both nuclear power and the search for new sources of natural gas. we need a new mechanism of action and a new toolkit. if the ep is not part of the solution today, it becomes part of the problem and the negative political outcome will remain with the eu.
in writing. in the gas war between russia and ukraine, the most innocent suffered the most. the current situation has shown how dependent europe is not only on the source of resources but also on the countries of transit. it showed how unfair the criticism of alternative pipelines like north stream and south stream was. it has also shown, sadly, how helpless the european union is to help its most affected members and to ensure the security of its citizens. our main task now is to restore gas supplies and the eu must use all its political resources to persuade russia and ukraine to release the 18 member states they hold hostage. the second step should be to support the countries most affected - in the context of economic crisis and shrinking markets, the shock of the gas shortage could prove fatal for many businesses in my country and thousands of people will be left without work. who's gonna be responsible for this? the third and most important step in the long term is the construction of alternative gas pipelines, especially nabucco, investment in connecting member states' gas networks and the construction of storage facilities to provide greater reserves. the conclusion is that we need a single european policy, but it is a pity that we only realise this after deep crises.
thank you, mr. chairman. we are gathered here tonight to remember a terrible crime, not accidentally called genocide, which is truly one of the great human tragedies in our recent history. but when i read the declaration that is being proposed, the resolution, the draft resolution, i see that it only reflects half the tragedy and only half the genocide. it mentions names that became world famous: ratko mladic, radovan karadzic, krstić, etc. but i don't see in it the names of the muslims who also committed crimes in srebrenica and in this hideous conflict. where is the name of nasser orich, commander of the 28th muslim division? who... why is there no mention in this resolution of the massacre in the village of kravitsa on christmas eve 1993, in this christian village? why are there no accounts of the dozens of christian villages that were burned in the srebrenica area by muslim fighters? all of us must not continue to defend a one-sided position and impose double standards when evaluating such horrifying events. anyone who says that only christians killed muslims in bosnia and herzegovina, when the opposite did not happen, is a hypocrite. who ever bothered to check? it was said here that it was a full, full srebrenica with mass graves, and that's true. but who has ever bothered to check how many of these mass graves are christian? let's not forget that things were going on bilaterally there and we shouldn't pretend that christians don't exist or don't have human rights, like they're some kind of animals.
mr president, i am pleased that our parliament was able to adopt this resolution by such an impressive vote, with no votes against. we, and i personally, supported this resolution because the european parliament has to have a clear position and to find common ground, even if the resolution adopted today does not correspond fully to the position of the socialist group. let me reiterate that the socialist group expresses its deepest outrage at the violence in the gaza strip, the consequences of the disproportionate use of force by the israeli army and the military escalation that is causing many hundreds of victims – most of them civilians, including many children – and that we strongly regret that civilian and un targets have been hit. we stress again that any upgrading of political relations between the eu and israel must be strongly conditioned on respect for international humanitarian law, on real commitment to a comprehensive peace settlement, on an end to the humanitarian crisis in gaza and the occupied palestinian territory and on respect for full implementation of the ec-plo interim association agreement.
ladies and gentlemen, the conflict between russia and ukraine and the interruption of natural gas supplies in january have caused severe damage to several european countries, especially bulgaria. over 230 million euros is the direct loss to the bulgarian economy in just a few days. by comparison, that's how much the nabucco project should have cost to launch. this put our economy at risk and forced us to seek cooperation in reopening units of the kozloduy nuclear power plant. the dialogue about this must be reasonable and calm, based on good analysis. the decisions are difficult, but let us not presume them and condemn in advance the signals which, unfortunately, have already come from the commission. i think that bulgaria and some of the countries most affected should be able to get additional funds from the european development plan, and not just the minimum part of the 20 million euros that have already been allocated for gas projects. it is not justifiable that the country most affected receives the least funds when nearly eur 3,5 billion will be allocated to energy projects. in a few minutes, we'll begin our discussion of the energy strategy. i call on all colleagues to show that we have a vision for our energy independence, that we can overcome our political considerations on the eve of the elections and that we can protect the solidarity and mutual aid that have brought us together.
this sunday, switzerland will hold a referendum on the free movement of people. the swiss people will decide whether the treaty between their country and the european union will be extended both in time and scope and whether it will include the citizens of bulgaria and romania. with its decision, switzerland will allow and determine not only the future development of whether we will use visas and borders, but also decide whether some responsible decisions of the last 30 years related to economic development will be continued in the future. the free movement of citizens policy has contributed to this economic development of both switzerland and the european union, as well as to the raising of our general standard of living. i sincerely hope that the result of the referendum in switzerland this sunday will be positive, because a negative result would bring back this wonderful partnership and cooperation to the barriers we had, to the limitations and to all the disadvantages of missing agreements. that is why i hope that our swiss friends will support our common future and i invite both the member states of the european union and the commission to continue our mutual cooperation with switzerland in a good spirit and with good results for all citizens of the european union.
last wednesday, the european commission announced its proposal for a recovery programme in the field of energy security. under this proposal, bulgaria receives only part of the eur 20 million for a project linking bulgaria with greece. a 20 million share of the billion dollar projects. in my country, the saying goes: "the mountain has been hard and has given birth to a mouse". and all this after the severe gas crisis. as you know, bulgaria was the most severely affected country and the only one relying solely on russian gas. officially, they're funding off-the-shelf projects, but it's questionable. the crucial project proposed by bulgaria for the expansion of the chiren gas storage facility can be finalised in only a few months. bulgaria, in the absence of support, will also tackle this project on its own, but where is our european solidarity and justice? last week, an influential european publication reported that as a result of this crisis, eurosceptics in bulgaria increased by 20%. i hope that is not an accurate measurement, but if the commission continues to treat bulgaria in this way, it will make a decisive contribution in this direction.
mr president, in spite of the agreement between the greek authorities and farmers, the farmers are still blocking the cross-border traffic road between bulgaria and greece at the kulata-promachonas crossing. the continuing 14-day blockade of border crossing points between the republic of bulgaria and the hellenic republic of greece has caused considerable financial losses to the bulgarian hauliers. i and 14 other bulgarian members of the european parliament have sent a written question to the commission on the measures taken under regulation (ec) no 2679/98. we acknowledge the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens. however, we are convinced that this regulation should be significantly improved so as to avoid another case of continuous blockade of transport between member states in total breach of the fundamental principles of the internal market, such as free movement of goods and persons.
ladies and gentlemen, i have noticed that in this room there is a rather imaginative and abstract discussion about what is best for europe, but i was sent here by the bulgarian voters and that is why i am more interested in what is most important for my homeland bulgaria. for us, the patriots of ataka, energy independence of bulgaria is the number one priority. during the "negotiations", which we call the "dictate of the european union", we were forced to close the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th reactors of the kozloduy npp. i want to remind you, if you don't know to remember, that these blocks have passed absolutely all the checks, they are recognized as absolutely safe and my colleague dimitar stoyanov in early 2007 asked the european commission to ask if there was such a requirement to close these blocks in order to accept bulgaria into the european union. it turned out that there was no such requirement from the european commission. mr günter verheugen, however, lied in the bulgarian parliament and said that there was such a requirement. a few days ago, bulgaria was facing a very serious energy crisis. according to article 36 of our accession treaty we have the right to start opening them. we have that right and that is why my colleagues from the national assembly in bulgaria have tabled a draft resolution to open the shutdowns from the 1st to the 4th units of the kozloduy npp. we don't expect our rotten, corrupt government to perform this important act for our country, but i say to you now and i clearly declare that when the ataka party has the political opportunity and the trust of the voters, we will do it. with my colleagues in the european parliament, dimitar stoyanov and slavie binnev, we have submitted a written declaration number 0005/2009 in which we ask that these reactors be reopened in order for bulgaria to achieve its energy independence. and in conclusion, i would like to say that europe will be strong only when each individual member state is strong and independent in its own energy. it's the only way if we want to work for our voters and our citizens.
i would like to begin by thanking the committee on industry, research and energy for the constructive debate on mrs laperrouze's report and in particular for her role in preparing an objective and comprehensive report. i would like to mention in particular the proposals i made in the report to reflect the problems of the countries most affected by external suppliers of energy, especially gas. first, it was noted that the european parliament should be actively involved in defining projects for new energy links, especially between the gas and electricity networks of the member states. i regret to say, however, that the commission's draft budget allocates only eur 20 million to the republic of bulgaria and its relations with greece, despite the fact that bulgaria is one of the countries most seriously affected. the chirin site, for example, which would solve the problems of crisis with minimal supplies, is not mentioned at all. secondly, all possibilities for the construction of a southern gas corridor are included, i.e. they are noted except for the 'nabuko' project, the 'south stream' project and tgi. the possibility of supplying gas from other countries in the region, such as uzbekistan and iran, is also noted in the long term. thirdly, it stresses the need for lng terminals built in the european union to be accessible to all member states on the basis of the principle of solidarity. this is particularly important again for the joint use of such terminals between bulgaria and greece. fourth, the commission is invited to consider extending the energy community to south east europe and other neighbouring countries with a view to creating a single market across the region. as rapporteur on the regulation on access conditions to gas transmission networks, i would like to reiterate the importance of the third energy package for the construction of the single european energy market and call for its adoption as soon as possible. finally, i would like to say that the report also objectively reflects the role of nuclear energy. i believe that the forthcoming framework directive on nuclear safety will provide a good basis for analysing the state of all reactors in the european union, not just those under construction, and will be an objective basis for assessing their safety. it is clear that politically motivated decisions such as those taken in respect of 'kozloduy' cannot be a long-term solution in the future development of the european union's energy mix. i hope that the member states will be able, on the basis of objective criteria, to reconsider the question of closed reactors.
madam president, as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on foreign affairs, i would like to congratulate mrs laperrouze on this report, which gives a broad overview of the european union's energy problems, including the need for a common energy policy. the report also sets out very clearly the actions we need to take to tackle the challenges to our energy security. i also welcome the fact that nuclear energy has found its rightful place in such a report and that it is presented as a necessary source of energy. especially now, after the gas crisis, it is also clear, and it is well underlined, that there is a need for diversification of energy sources. on the other hand, and for the future, we have to continue to work towards more alternative corridors, energy corridors, not one corridor at the expense of another. competition is a win-win. i want to draw attention to two questions. last october, i noted here in this room that the nabucco energy project is still "smoke without fire". i then called on the european commission to take decisive action. we can now say that there is some movement on the part of the commission in that direction. there's an understanding of its importance, especially now, after the gas crisis. but it should be clear that despite the actions and measures taken to achieve greater energy security, much more effort, including serious political activity, is needed to see the light at the end of the tunnel. second, the capacity for energy storage. i want to share with you that bulgaria was absolutely lost if it didn't have at least 20 days' capacity and in the chiren gas storage, which was last year, as if the government understood what could come, expanded by 1/3 of the capacity. so, for the second time today, i emphasize my strong disagreement with the commission's failure to pay any attention to the project proposed by bulgaria for further expansion of this storage facility. it was the only way to save the day, and i think that in all other countries we should support similar projects.
mrs laperrouze, i would like to congratulate you first of all on the good work you have done, on your timely and timely report. we can hardly say today how much the european countries and citizens have lost from the gas crisis. more than 230 million euros are direct losses for the bulgarian economy alone, which was hit the hardest by the dispute between ukraine and russia, and without any compensation. the emergency situation that has arisen raises many questions. unfortunately, the big issue of energy dependency is exacerbated as we enter another crisis and political confrontation between russia and ukraine. many remember the situation three years ago when the two countries were again arguing over prices. we had a promise of a common european energy policy then, but for three years it seems nothing has changed. and today we ask ourselves: are we ready for a single energy market or do individual interests prevail in bilateral agreements? have we done enough to connect the european gas networks of the member states, or are we less and less inclined to direct reserves to crisis situations? how do we work on the north and south stream, on the nabucco? i'm very glad to hear that nuclear energy is being treated as an equal to other energy sources. without any compromise on their safety, it is time to reassess the attitude towards nuclear power plants in europe, and without any further political decisions. we need that energy, and it would be a serious barrier to inspired crises. it is no coincidence that at the height of the crisis, the bulgarian parliament has now sought its european partners to resume the debate on the reopening of the suspended reactors in kozloduy, with proven safety by the competent authorities. and we hope you understand. decisions are hard, but let's not prejudge them and condemn them to failure in advance. i'm addressing you specifically here, commissioner. only a few days ago, the european commission allocated funds from the european recovery plan. the country most affected received the least funds and i did not hear from you this evening, commissioner, that bulgaria was mentioned in the column of the 100% dependent countries that need special assistance. what are the criteria and mechanisms for the distribution of these funds - i could hardly explain to both bulgarian and european citizens. obviously we need to ramp up the accelerated work on the third energy package. as a member of imco, i have worked a lot to protect consumers in terms of energy supply, but you understand that we must first of all provide that energy.
in writing. in recent decades, the population of the member states of the european union has been increasingly ageing. the successful balance between work and home life is becoming an impossible task for women. it is increasingly important that member states promote fertility and give due attention to the family. in this area, the eu could indirectly contribute and help member states to modernise their policies. i believe that the recognition of so-called 'invisible labour' is one of the important measures that can be taken in this area. we cannot ignore the fact that more and more people of working age are caring for children and elderly relatives at the same time, which puts them in a difficult situation. it is therefore of particular importance that the commission present specific initiatives for the formal recognition of skills acquired in child-rearing, care of dependent persons and household management activities, so that these skills are taken into account for reintegration into the labour market. today we must think about the future of all those mothers who raise children - the future of europe - and protect them from the risk of one day receiving a small pension and being at a disadvantage to all other members of society.
mrs angelilli's report is very timely and important. we live in a world where the risks to children and adolescents are constantly increasing. child exploitation, including sexual exploitation, is one of society's great ills. combating this phenomenon requires a lot of common efforts and integration of measures, methods and means. judicial and punitive measures are very important: the criminalization of sexual exploitation, specific legislation on internet technologies used against the interests of children. however, it should not be forgotten that prevention of this phenomenon is part of the fight against it: to train children and parents on how to avoid encountering the phenomenon and the people who carry it; to limit any kind of advertising that provokes open and aggressive sexuality; to provide more care for children from different homes who are often victims of sexual violence; to integrate efforts to prevent child trafficking - one of the major objectives of trafficking is sexual exploitation; namely to create networks of non-governmental and governmental structures to counter it.
colleagues, it is clear that climate change is the focus of many of the main european and non-european policy issues. no old alliance, no single union, can tackle the challenges of climate change alone and independently. this requires integrated policies in both horizontal and vertical terms. politics, law and finance must work together. the report is a great platform for that. i'd like to draw attention to two facts without which we cannot work to combat climate change. science: the report focuses on new technologies, but we need to talk more about science and about targeted investment in science to find solutions. without it, we're stuck in the field of trivia and everyday life. our foundation is research, our future is new technologies, developed in collaboration between science and business. i call for investing in science and making climate change a top priority for all union science programmes.
the problem of the use of waste oils containing polychlorinated biphenyls in a food waste recycling plant raises again the question of the need to ensure food safety in the european union. first of all, it should be stressed that the problem is not an animal disease but a lack of control over the implementation of the measures laid down for the hygiene and safety of feed in the european union. despite the control measures, the elevated level of dioxin was detected only when it reached the pig meat. the logical question is why didn't this happen sooner? many european citizens today are wondering whether the european union has the necessary legislation to require member states to implement adequate controls on the safety of feed fed to animals. the answer to this question is imperative, given that the failure of a single food processing plant to comply with safety standards can have fatal consequences and cause damage worth hundreds of millions of euros. i would like to call on the european commission to take the necessary measures to increase the controls which are an integral part of the european union's policy to protect the health of consumers. pork with high dioxin content from ireland has also reached bulgaria, as well as many other european countries. but such incidents should not be allowed to happen in the future, because the financial and social cost of doing so is too high. finally, i would like to congratulate mrs mcguinness on her initiative to put the matter before the commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dumitriu, and the members of the agriculture committee, for an excellent report on the commission proposal on information and promotion measures for agricultural products on the internal and external markets. i would like to stress the importance of the issues addressed in this report. i think we all agree that the promotion of european agricultural products is of huge importance, both internally and externally. i am convinced that trade in agricultural products will continue to grow in the future – even if we have to admit that we face a setback at the present time owing to the economic crisis. however, there will be huge opportunities for our european products in third-country markets, and our promotion campaign should help european producers explore those new markets. before going into the content of the report, i would like to put it into perspective. in 2008, the commission adopted 42 programmes on the internal market and on third countries, representing a budget of eur 128 million over three years. according to the rules, half of that amount was then to be financed by the community. the aim of the commission proposal is to make it possible for member states to launch programmes cofinanced by the european union in third countries – as described by the rapporteur – because today this possibility only exists for the internal market. it should also be possible for those programmes to be implemented by international organisations. the three most important amendments from the rapporteur and his colleagues are as follows: firstly, to make it compulsory for member states to consult trade associations about the proposed programmes; secondly, to specify that implementation by international organisations is not only a possibility reserved for the international olive oil council, but a general possibility, for example – as mentioned here today – also in the wine sector; and, on the budget side, to increase the cofinancing rate. with regard to those amendments, i would emphasise that member states do, in fact, already consult trade associations in order to make sure that they have the support of producers. i would prefer that partnership approach to continue on a voluntary basis. my mentioning of the international olive oil council is only meant as an example, because of the discussions that have recently taken place on the whole olive oil sector. it certainly does not exclude other international organisations, such as the international organisation of vine and wine. regarding the funding of the budget, there is of course ongoing discussion on the level of cofinancing by the community, but we discussed this issue when merging the two regulations dealing with promotion and information in 2008, so i do not think we should re-open the discussion on this issue. could i just take the opportunity to say that, when we agreed the wine reform, we did recognise the importance of promoting our products on third-country markets. therefore, in the interests of spending the budget for wine in a smarter and more intelligent way, we proposed the earmarking of eur 120 million each year for the promotion of our wine products on third country markets, as a special budget line. however, since member states – and especially the new member states – did not want to be in a position where that money was earmarked in such a way that, if it was not spent, then it was lost, we included the eur 120 million in the national envelopes, so that member states can decide for themselves. in any case, this gives a clear signal that the community does care and does recognise the importance of strong promotion of our european products. i look forward to the discussion here today.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr dumitriu, on his objective report, which reflects the real needs of the community sector to promote european producers. the report sets out measures that will help to open up new markets and to sell our farmers' agricultural products. this policy meets the real needs of member states wishing to promote their agricultural production both to consumers in the community and to those in third countries. it is a very good opportunity to put the emphasis on the quality, nutritional value, production methods and safety of the food produced. i support the rapporteur's proposal to give interested countries the opportunity to propose information programmes for third countries if they are deprived of this possibility. this amendment will allow european countries to extend the scope of the actions provided for in these programmes and to request assistance from international organisations for their implementation. i believe that the process of drawing up these programmes should take into account the important role of associations and industry organisations in individual countries, which have an objective view of what is happening in individual industries. it is also worth noting the importance of some international organisations in promoting the specificity and benefits of food products specific to certain regions of the european union. i support the rapporteur's proposal to increase the rate of community financial contribution to provide additional aid for projects selected by the member states. i urge you to support mr dumitriu's report.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the debate in the ep on the three security and defence reports is an expression of a high political responsibility towards the citizens of europe on the eve of the nato summit. the established practice of adopting resolutions on the council's report on the main aspects and decisions of the common foreign and security policy is a good opportunity to call on member states to apply this practice at national level. the development of independent academic capacity for the analysis and evaluation of the european security and defence policy together with national security policies is of particular importance. on this basis, a public debate on the esdp will be achieved through a network of think tanks with roots in the member states. the work on the eu's security and defence white paper cannot be completed without the member states transposing this document into their national strategies. this includes strengthening national analytical capacity and capacity for computer-assisted training and exercises to test and master new concepts in the field of civil-military cooperation. we should encourage member states to undertake a joint strategic security review to create a solid basis for eu-nato engagement in the process of developing the new nato strategic concept in the context of the esdp.
we should congratulate the lower house of the czech parliament on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon: another victory for the european idea, another proof that more and more people believe in european values. and so i call upon us to distance ourselves from anyone who would violate these values and destroy our faith in them. how can we write our fundamental rights in golden letters in the charter on the one hand, and on the other tolerate them being ignored and denied? we're talking about ethnic and religious tolerance, about the rights of older people to live in dignity and to participate actively in it. at the same time, a party leader in bulgaria, a full member of the european people's party, pushes boundaries between ethnicities and ages, suggests different quality of people. what should be our attitude toward such leaders? and my question is to the right side of this room, because the president of the epp, mr martens, has recommended this man to be the next prime minister of my country. let's reject double standards and respect our own actions and words, and remember that human rights brought us together more than 50 years ago.
the european economic recovery plan for the financial crisis is a fact. the problem of the crisis is general, but protectionism has been noted, stimulating native industries and personnel. the fundamental freedom of movement of labour and free trade is being tested. the crisis develops in different ways in different countries. in the european union's economic tigers, which are emerging ahead of time, including bulgaria, the banking system is relatively stable, unemployment is not high, there are highly qualified personnel, and the currency is stable. i call for the recovery plan to be updated to better coordinate with the real economy in view of the dynamics of the crisis. in a crisis, capital seeks out low-risk areas and can put money into new greenfield technologies rather than dead industries. the opportunity must be taken for the last to fall into recession to rise first and, with the help of these funds and know-how, to become centres of stability around which the economic and financial system of the european union can be rebuilt more quickly.
i draw attention to the problem of the renewed schism in the bulgarian orthodox church. the split in the church circles was born in the years of strong politicization in the country, in a period when the bulgarian orthodox church, like many other structures, defended its place in the democratic face of bulgaria. unfortunately, this led to the announcement of the so-called second synod of the bulgarian orthodox church, despite the bulgarian law on confessions. it is highly liberal and any religion can be registered under it, as long as it has no anti-human goals. but the so-called second synod wants to be registered as the holy synod of the bulgarian orthodox church. the law defines the bulgarian orthodox church as traditional for bulgaria, not subject to registration. the election of the patriarch and the composition of the holy synod are not the subject of subjects of law. i call on all those who value freedom of religion in accordance with their own spiritual needs not to be influenced by the manipulative definitions of the so-called second synod. he can't be registered as such and has no right.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i fully support mr szymański's report, in particular the proposal to increase the financial envelope of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. we need to engage more with our neighbours, especially after the three recent conflicts in gaza, ukraine and georgia over the past six months. a considerable number of the amendments proposed by our group, including the 11 amendments which i tabled as a fictitious rapporteur, were adopted by the committee on foreign affairs. but here again i would like to table two further amendments on behalf of our group, the alde group. while i agree with the idea of greater cooperation with turkey and russia to resolve some of the unresolved conflicts and to strengthen the ties between the black sea countries, the wording of paragraph 39 may lead to confusion. cooperation in the black sea is exercised at four different levels: the member states, the candidate countries, the countries of the european neighbourhood policy and russia as a strategic partner. turkey is a candidate country for accession, so it is not part of the european neighbourhood policy and benefits from the instrument for pre-accession assistance and not from the european neighbourhood instrument. so the european neighbourhood policy will certainly not provide an appropriate basis for cooperation with turkey. there are already cooperation platforms with the black sea countries. perhaps we should try to link up with these regional initiatives to strengthen this synergy instead of looking at new forms of cooperation. the second amendment deals with the energy question. paragraph 44 of the report refers only to ukraine and moldova, whereas most of our neighbours are important countries in the energy sector, either as source countries or as transit countries. i am thinking in particular of georgia and azerbaijan, whose importance will increase with the launch of the nabucco project, which was the subject of an international conference in january. i therefore believe that energy measures should include all the countries in our neighbourhood.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to congratulate teresa riera madurell on this report, which brings us closer to the successful construction of the european research area. i am convinced that it is by building a network of research partnerships between member states that we will achieve a competitive and winning economy based on knowledge and innovation. the exchange of knowledge would not be possible without the relevant infrastructure, because it plays a key role in creating an efficient environment for the implementation of cutting-edge and much-needed scientific research. at this stage, all activity is confined to the framework of individual research collaborations. the legal framework to allow for the establishment of appropriate partnerships with participants from different countries has also been lacking, which is actually the key to our success in this regard. the absence of this legislation is extremely slowing down the integration of research in the new member states, which have considerable scientific potential to be incorporated into the european union. the report is not just a step towards creating legal means to build a research infrastructure. it could help to ensure the circulation of knowledge within the european union, to raise the prestige and authority of european research centres at world level, to increase employment, and it is also the way to find adequate solutions to the new environmental challenges. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs riera madurell, once again.
the european commission's proposal to reduce the rates of value added tax on services of a permanent nature for locally supplied services, including labour-intensive services, is timely and aims at streamlining and simplifying through the necessary amendments and clarifications, potentially increasing employment in sectors with a low-skilled workforce, limiting the share of the grey economy, preserving jobs and ensuring equal treatment of member states, including their economic operators. one of the main arguments for lowering vat rates is that it favours a better distribution of income after consumption, with the value of the consumption basket of low-income households falling and that of high-income households rising. the changes in the consumer structure include changes in both gross domestic product and productivity in the formal sector and a reduction in activities in the shadow economy such as housing services as well as other locally supplied services, the subject of this european commission proposal. of course, the possibility of net economic benefits from a reduction in vat rates is not based only on the characteristics of the sector concerned but also on the specific economic environment in the member states concerned. as an example, the extension of reduced vat rates to low-skilled sectors implies a rigid labour market, and in the food sector, significant differences in consumption between high and low-income households. let us also take into account the fact that the use of reduced vat rates reduces the vat receipts to the treasury. this, measured as a share of gross domestic product, varies between half a percentage point and one and a half percent of gross domestic product in the various member states. for the governments concerned, the stability of public finances allows them to cope with structural deficits in the current period of economic turmoil. even governments with sufficient room for manoeuvre will use alternatives such as lowering value added tax rates for labour-intensive services, for example, thereby also achieving other economic policy objectives. in view of the above facts and arguments, the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats will support the european commission's proposal to favour a solid support from the european parliament at this important stage of the decision-making procedure.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i support mr onesta's report, but i would ask you to consider two problems in dealing with the petitions. the first relates to the presentation of the facts and the second to the lack of any opportunity to appear before the commission other than the importer and the respondent. in petition no 0795/2007 the facts were presented unilaterally and tendentiously, the party concerned the bulgarian orthodox church was not invited to comment. the position of the ccc was not sought during the commission's fact-finding mission to bulgaria from 27 to 30 october 2008. thus, attempts to defame the holy orthodox church in bulgaria and to deprive it of its right to self-government are aided by the incorrect consideration of the petition submitted by the alternative synod and conditions are created that mislead the members of the commission. the petitioners seek to decide the fate of the bcc not according to the established church canons of centuries, but through the intervention of a secular institution - the strasbourg court. following an intra-ecclesiastical split, canonically authorized by the church in 1998, the strasbourg court issued a decision on the same intra-ecclesiastical issue, and in which the bcc case was not even a respondent. the truth is, no secular court has the right to hear church disputes!
thank you, madam chairman. international women's day is an occasion to reflect on gender equality policy. many people think it's only aimed at women in pursuit of equal employment, pay, leisure time. in an economic crisis, such goals are relevant, but equality policy should also address men. the crisis is affecting the labour market, with many of them likely to lose their jobs due to higher wages, job cuts in the financial sector and in labour-intensive industries. men are more likely to take a greater part in family life and thus to penetrate standard social roles. whether they are ready for it and whether public attitudes are conducive to such a change is a question that remains to be answered. the possible solutions vary between member states, regions and communities. i therefore call for updating national equality plans and flexible rules that respond equally to the needs of men and women.
thank you, madam chairman. i raise a question with deep pain. in the last two weeks we have heard news from the republic of macedonia, where some church authorities have expressed a desire to dig the graves of the bulgarian soldiers who died on the territory of the republic in all the wars of the twentieth century. bulgarian public opinion, and i'm sure european public opinion, finds such statements to be absolutely unacceptable. no one has the right to play with the memory of those who died in wars and what we have to do is to give them honour and respect, and to respect the basic european principle of honouring the dead and respecting our best traditions of tolerance that we have. i call on the european parliament to draw the attention of the authorities in the republic of macedonia that this type of statement should not go unanswered by the authorities, and to hear clearly and firmly that no one in macedonia will carry out this type of threat. that would be a violation of the basic cultural and national rules of any civilized country.
in writing. the responsibility of the ep in preparing the 2010 budget is greater than in previous budgets, and this is due to the financial and economic crisis and the energy instability affecting the union's member states. maximum precision in budgeting and flexibility of options are necessary, as the dynamics of the crisis require dynamics of management. we need more successful implementation of regional and social cohesion policy across the union. it must be reflected in every priority, which is an even greater challenge in the context of the economic crisis, in order to prevent the creation of dividing lines between member states and to help the new member states to cope. i believe that by using budgetary instruments, we will be more responsive in 2010 to the energy and transport networks, the internal energy networks for the eu well planned to ensure the availability of alternatives to the countries most affected by its absence. and, most importantly, flexibility and efficiency in the financing of transport corridors, in order to ease traffic and expand communication between the parties. particular attention should be paid to the north-south networks. a much higher intensity is needed in the development of research and development projects. innovation policy should target sectors appropriate to the countries in order to maximise the efficiency of spending.
in writing. as a representative of the right, i believe in the contribution of every citizen of society to its common welfare and prosperity. i believe that the integration of all social groups into society and social cohesion should be a goal that is approached without populism and big words. the economic contribution and participation of each roma in the labour market must be the basis for the sustainable and effective integration of roma. in my country, and this is no exception, roma are socially marginalized and live in poverty. in practice, education stops at a very early stage, and studies by the bulgarian academy of sciences from 2007 show that the proportion of graduates is practically zero - only 0.2 percent. lack of education puts roma at the bottom of the labour market and contributes to high unemployment. for their effective integration, it is necessary to improve their housing conditions and to actively involve them in the labour market, in addition to education. but none of this can happen without the roma themselves and without their active and conscious desire to change things, and that's where i see the big challenge for all of us.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the report by mrs kovács on the social situation of roma and improving their access to the eu labour market is an expression of the european parliament's high political responsibility to the citizens of europe at the height of the global economic crisis. it details all the important challenges facing the economic situation and social inclusion of europe's largest ethnic minority. in these times of crisis, it is important that we uphold the values on which our union is founded and protect the vulnerable members of our society. providing education for roma, implementing specific employment policies, guaranteeing access to health services, and not least promoting the fight for equality for roma women, must be the instruments for solving the long-term problems of this part of european society. the report clearly and explicitly advocates the principle of involving ngos and roma in the formulation and implementation of social inclusion policies i think that as we enter the fourth year of the decade of roma inclusion, member states should take more seriously the specific recommendations made by the commission for the implementation of this ambitious european project. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the maritime community has long been discussing the need to improve the regulation, control and monitoring of shipping traffic, because of the dangers of accidents, pollution, the risk to human life, and illegal traffic, which is unfortunately not a small one. the integration of new technologies into maritime traffic, the intensification of piracy, combined with the absence of strict and general controls, are prerequisites for problematicity. the amendment of the directive creates and develops the conditions for a maritime safety network and the conditions for the establishment of an effective automatic information system. these are achievements that need to be evaluated by the european parliament, the commission and the council. structuring the hazardous waste problem is important. the existence of the directive will not allow ships with dangerous, unidentified cargo to roam european seas looking for a place to dump their cargo. this is the need to control maritime traffic; to create a culture of maritime safety, to organise the logistics of the process, to ensure the technical and technological construction of the system; to create a system for the effective dissemination of information, while protecting the part of this information that ensures traffic safety. i welcome the efforts made by the maritime safety agency, including the establishment of the vessel traffic management and information system, providing an integrated database including real-time visualisation of ships as well as other data related to their cargo and characteristics. if the erica case is already a chrismatistic example of the study of management and risk analysis, i wish such an example would no longer happen and that there would be no more such incidents.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the compromise reached will strengthen eu safety legislation and the conversion of important international instruments into community legislation. the european parliament, by adopting it, will raise the standard of investigation of maritime accidents to a new level. the adoption of these measures is a consequence of the accident with the tanker "erica", but i want to remind you of another, more recent case. on february 13, 2004, 7.5 nautical miles from the bosphorus, under circumstances still unknown, the ship hera sank with all 19 of her crew. five years after this tragedy, which occurred at the entrance to one of the most lively and watched spots in the world, no one can say how or why this ship sank. moreover, no one can say what rescue operations were undertaken after receiving the distress signal. the investigation into the cause and effect of this accident is currently at an impasse. the only thing that can be said with certainty is that 17 citizens of the european union and two of ukraine are missing. and no one is responsible for that. it is clear that the new rules we are adopting will not prevent tragedies like this, but i hope they will ensure a transparent, thorough and objective investigation so that we can hold those responsible accountable.
the report on vignette charges contains proposals that make transport in the european union significantly more expensive, especially long-distance transport, especially by carriers from peripheral countries of the union, such as bulgaria. this will not only affect carriers but also their customers, traders and end-users in the european union. the road haulage industry is suffering a lot from the financial and economic crisis, we see a 50 percent decrease in demand for transport services compared to 2007, as well as 110 percent more bankruptcies in the sector compared to 2007. in the absence of similar regulatory requirements, european carriers are not competitive with third-country companies that carry out a large number of transport operations in the european union. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the actual costs of the leasing contracts, which are not included in the calculation of the costs of the leasing contracts. in view of these conditions, i strongly support proposals 71 and 72 which propose that the 'restraint' factor not be included in the directive, and i also believe that it is of the utmost importance to prevent the transfer of funds collected from tolls to other modes of transport. this will have a negative impact, especially in countries with a poor road infrastructure, like my country, bulgaria.
ladies and gentlemen, the focus of european policy should be on childcare. not because we sometimes say formally that children are the future of the nation, but because reality demands that we think and work to build europe's tomorrow. we are witnessing a serious demographic crisis, low birth rates, an ageing population, economic and social problems in society. our efforts must be directed towards creating suitable conditions for the birth, upbringing, education, material security and social realization of children. we need an adequate distribution of rights, duties and responsibilities in childcare between the state, local authorities and the family, support for childcare institutions in both the public and private sectors, a search for public-private partnerships in childcare and the means to implement them. to achieve the objectives of the barcelona process, we need to take concrete steps, increasing the coverage of children in nursery and kindergarten, which should be built as a priority; creating networks for comprehensive services, consultation and public support for children and parents. in my country, bulgaria, childcare is of a high standard. the adopted national strategy for the child and national programme for child protection set not only targets but also concrete steps for the executive in relation to childcare. institutions for children have changed their appearance, seeking solutions for the return of children to family environments, adopting the principles of foster families, creating sheltered housing, building kindergartens and crèches. but we're talking about all of this in the context of a financial and economic crisis, where it's possible to lose what we've achieved and not achieve what we've planned. are we going to invest in children in europe?
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me first join you in paying tribute to jean monnet. we are in a time of crisis, and i think this is exactly the time when we need a strong institution, and it is a great opportunity to raise the importance of jean monnet as one of the founding fathers of european integration. however, the purpose of today’s meeting is to discuss the upcoming european council. this council, as we all know, comes at a critical time for the union. we face very significant challenges as a result of unprecedented stresses on our financial systems and our economies as well. this issue, together with energy security, climate change and the financing of the mitigation and adaptation to climate change, will be the focus of next week’s meeting. as this parliament certainly knows, a wide range of measures have been taken by the union and the member states in the face of the financial crisis. we have avoided a meltdown of the financial system. our top priority now is the restoration of credit flows to the economy. we have to deal in particular with the ‘impaired assets’ held by banks, since these discourage them from resuming lending. at their meeting on 1 march, the heads of state and government agreed that we should do this in a coordinated manner, in line with the guidelines provided by the commission. we also need to do more to improve the regulation and supervision of financial institutions. this is a clear lesson from the crisis, and prevention is no less important. cross-border banks hold up to 80% of europe’s banking assets. two thirds of european banks’ assets are held in only 44 multinational groups. strengthening supervision is, therefore, important in itself. it will help prevent future crises, but it will also send a message of confidence to consumers and markets. important work is under way in that respect. the presidency is fully committed to working closely with the european parliament with a view to the rapid adoption of the solvency ii directive (on insurance), the revised credit requirements directive (on banks) and the ucits directive (on undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities). we are also working to get rapid adoption of the regulations on the protection of bank deposits and on credit-rating agencies. however, we probably need to go further. the high level group, chaired by mr de larosière, has produced, as you know, very interesting recommendations, and the commission’s communication of 4 march also paves the way for significant reform in this area. so the european council must send a clear message that this is a priority and that decisions need to be taken as early as june. as you are well aware, member states’ budget deficits are growing fast right now. of course, deficits inevitably swell in times of economic recession. automatic stabilisers can, to some extent, play a positive role. the stability and growth pact was revised in 2005 precisely for that reason, to allow for sufficient flexibility in difficult times. but this flexibility needs to be used judiciously, taking into account different starting points. restoring confidence also requires governments to give a clear commitment to sound public finances, fully respecting the stability and growth pact. some member states have already made efforts towards consolidation. most will do so from 2010. this will also be an important message from next week’s meeting. the financial crisis is now affecting the real economy. member states have launched significant recovery programmes, which are now well under way. the overall stimulus this offers represents, as was agreed, 1.5% of the gdp, but, if you include its automatic stabilisers, it comes to 3.3% of the eu’s gdp. of course, member states’ responses are different. they face different situations and have different margins for manoeuvre. but they are coordinated and are based on common principles defined in the european recovery programme, which was agreed last december. this is important if we are to ensure synergies and avoid negative spill-over effects. specific and targeted action has been elaborated on in a synergic way between the commission and the member states and the presidency. that enabled us to both keep the level playing field and, at the same time, face in a concerted and efficient manner the aggravations in some of europe’s key industrial sectors, such as the automotive industry. the european council will assess the state of implementation of this programme. here too, the commission’s communication of 4 march sets out a number of important principles which should guide the action of member states. they include the need to maintain openness within the internal market, ensuring non-discrimination and working towards long-term policy goals, such as facilitating structural change, enhancing competitiveness and building a low-carbon economy. as far as the community part of the recovery programme is concerned, the presidency is working very hard to reach an agreement in the european council on the commission proposal to finance energy and rural development projects. as you know, there have been discussions within the council over the precise list of projects to be supported by the community and how they should be funded. given the important role of parliament, as one of the branches of the budgetary authority and as co-legislator in this matter, the presidency is committed to close cooperation with you over the coming weeks, with a view to reaching an agreement as soon as possible. in addition to the short-term measures, long-term efforts are needed if we are to ensure the competitiveness of our economies. structural reforms are more urgent than ever if we are to promote growth and jobs. so the renewed lisbon strategy remains the right framework within which to promote sustainable economic growth, which will, in turn, lead to the creation of new jobs. at the moment, our citizens are particularly worried about the effect of the economic situation on levels of unemployment. next week’s european council should agree on concrete orientations on how the eu can contribute to mitigating the social impact of the crisis. this issue will also be the focus of the special summit which will take place in early may. let me be clear on one point: we will not protect jobs by creating barriers to foreign competition. at their meeting 10 days ago, the heads of state and government were clear that we have to make the maximum possible use of the single market as the engine for recovery. protectionism is clearly not the right answer to face this crisis – quite the opposite. more than ever, our companies need open markets, both internally within the union, but also at the global level. which leads me to the g20 summit meeting in london. the european council will establish the union’s position in advance of the g20 summit. we want this summit to be ambitious. we cannot afford it to fail. leaders will be looking at prospects for growth and employment and at reform of the global financial system and of the international financial institutions. they will also be looking at the particular challenges facing developing countries. the eu is active in all these areas and should be in a strong position to ensure that the international community takes the right decisions. the other major item on the agenda of next week’s european council will be energy security. the recent energy crisis demonstrated all too clearly the extent to which we need to increase our ability to resist future supply problems, as we could see earlier this year. the commission has provided some very useful elements in its second strategic energy review. on the basis of this review, the presidency intends that the european council agree on a set of concrete orientations aimed at enhancing the union’s energy security in the short, medium and long term. in the short term, this means having available concrete measures which can be called on if we are suddenly faced with a new disruption of gas supplies. it also means taking urgent steps to launch infrastructure projects to enhance energy interconnections – this is certainly essential. in the medium term, it means adapting our legislation on oil and gas stocks to ensure that member states act with responsibility and solidarity. it means taking adequate measures to improve energy efficiency. in the long term, it means diversifying our sources, suppliers and routes of supply. we have to work with our international partners to promote the union’s energy interests. we must create a fully fledged internal market for electricity and gas. as you know, this is legislation which the presidency very much hopes can be completed before the european elections. next week’s meeting will also discuss the preparations for the copenhagen conference on climate change. we remain committed to a global, comprehensive agreement in copenhagen next december. the commission’s january communication is a very helpful basis. it is very clear that climate change is a challenge which can only be tackled through a concerted global effort. finally, the european council will also launch the eastern partnership. this important initiative will help to promote stability and prosperity on the whole continent. it will also contribute to accelerating reforms and to deepening our commitment to work together with those countries. the partnership includes a bilateral dimension which is adapted to each partner country. it foresees the negotiation of association agreements, which might include deep and comprehensive free trade areas. the multilateral track will provide a framework in which common challenges can be addressed. there will be four policy platforms: democracy, good governance and stability; economic integration; energy security; and, last but not least, contacts between people. you will appreciate from this presentation that next week’s european council has many substantial issues to address. we are facing many serious challenges, not least the current economic crisis. the czech presidency, through the leadership of prime minister topolánek, intends to ensure that the meeting next week demonstrates through practical action that the european union remains committed to its ideals and that it faces these challenges together in a coordinated manner and in a spirit of responsibility and of solidarity. (applause)
president of the commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr first vice-minister vondra, ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a trying time. an economic crisis of this magnitude is having an impact on families, workers, all sections of the population and businesses across europe. it is destroying jobs, it is calling for the resistance of our social models. it also exerts strong political pressure on all those responsible. the european union is not immune to these tensions. that is why it has decided to use all the levers at its disposal to tackle the crisis and its consequences head-on, using what it is strongest at: european institutions and member states working together in a community of law to provide collective solutions to common problems. ladies and gentlemen, we have already done a great deal in the last six months to combat the crisis we are experiencing. we avoided a financial meltdown in the fall; we helped to launch an international process with the g20; we were among the first to put the real economy at the centre of our attention by agreeing a stimulus plan in december, a plan whose number one recommendation - unprecedented fiscal stimulus at european level - is now being implemented. this support to the real economy corresponds to a total of 3.3% of gdp and includes a real contribution from the european budget. the recovery plan foresees, for example, an acceleration of the advances on the structural funds to a total of eur 6.3 billion in 2009, in addition to the eur 5 billion already planned. the actions undertaken in the last six months are fully in line with the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the structural reforms which have done well in strengthening our economies must be continued because they also help to support demand in the short term, but we must now move to the next stage for a more comprehensive deployment of measures to combat the crisis. we need greater coordination and wider effects. it is time to move to higher gear in our response to the crisis. i think we really need to understand that this is a crisis of a new kind and that we have never envisioned a crisis of this dimension, this breadth, this depth. that will be the task of the european council next week. with the very strong support of the czech presidency, whose commitment and full cooperation with the commission i welcome, i am confident that there will be progress in the four areas which the commission identified in its communication a few days ago: financial markets, the real economy, employment and the social dimension and the overall dimension with the g20. the informal summit on 1 march, thanks in large measure to the effective presidency of prime minister mirek topolánek, has already laid the foundations for a successful european council. i am proud to see that the commission's preparatory work has been so well received. our guidelines on impaired assets, our communication on the automotive sector and the report i gave to jacques de larosière and his high-level group have enabled the member states to build consensus so that they can come together around common positions. i am pleased to see the broad support for these lines of action in the european parliament. i take as a witness the reports we are debating this morning, the ferreira report on the economic recovery plan, the andersson report on the employment guidelines and the kirilov report on cohesion policy. these reports and the resolutions which your assembly will be voting on this week, in particular those of the lisbon strategy coordination group, make what i believe to be an essential contribution to the european council. they can only strengthen europe's position on the international scene on the eve of the london summit, and i welcome that. mr president, i would like briefly to pick out three themes which i believe must guide this european council's work: stabilising financial markets, revitalising the real economy and helping people make it through the crisis. look at the financial system. yes, we need immediate action to address immediate problems. after our recapitalisation and guarantee initiatives, our guidance on impaired assets targets the major obstacle now identified as blocking the flow of credit. i believe, and it is in our communication, that without cleaning up the banking system, we will not see the restoration of credit flow to the real economy. but, as has often been argued in this chamber, we also need to rebuild confidence through a major overhaul of our regulatory regime. that is why we have set out a detailed calendar of new regulatory proposals. next month the commission will come forward with new proposals on hedge funds, on private equity and on executive pay. but we must also revamp supervision. as you will have seen from the communication the commission adopted last wednesday and which i had the opportunity to discuss with your conference of presidents the following day, the commission is keen to accelerate the implementation of the de larosière report. we will present the overall architecture at the end of may for endorsement by the european council in june, and we will come up with legislative proposals in the autumn. in more general terms, beyond financial systems, using short-term action to target our long-term goals will pay double dividends. it will make us stronger when the upturn comes, ready to face the challenge of competitiveness and a low-carbon economy. just look at energy security. the fact that we are in an economic crisis does not make our problems of dependency disappear. on the contrary, and i welcome the decision of prime minister topolánek to have a discussion on this issue. this is central to what we're doing. investing in infrastructure brings a stimulus today, and it is badly needed for the european economy. but it also makes us stronger and more competitive tomorrow. that is why your support, the european parliament's support for the eur 5 billion stimulus to energy and broadband projects is so valuable the more so as i am rather concerned, to be honest with you, about the state of play in council, where we are not making the progress i would wish to see. of course we all know that the community budget, at less than 1% of gdp, can only make a limited contribution to a european-wide stimulus. the money has to come, essentially, from national budgets. but we need to deploy all national levers in the european perspective in order to be effective. the single market is the best possible platform for recovery. in 2006 alone, europe was richer by eur 240 billion, or the equivalent of eur 518 for every european citizen because of the single market. the european council should cement its place at the heart of our recovery strategy by agreeing principles that should shape the european recovery, including a shared commitment to openness and a level playing field internally and externally, thus clearly rejecting protectionism but of course protecting the single market, the bedrock of european prosperity. most importantly, though, we must acknowledge that this is not a question of economic theory or dry statistics. this crisis is having a major impact on people, namely the most vulnerable across europe now, today. that is why my number one concern by far the most important test we face is the social impact of this crisis, namely the problem of rising unemployment. we have to focus our energy on employment and on helping people make it through the crisis. this requires determination and imagination. we need to help companies to keep workers on their books, to use training imaginatively to serve long- and short-term needs, and we need to bring help to those already unemployed. we need to be sure that we make the most of national actions to help the most vulnerable. but we also need to make the most of the european instruments we have, from the social fund to the european globalisation adjustment fund. launching a process now which takes us up to the employment summit in may gives us two months of intensive efforts to put plans in place and, if possible, to develop new and more ambitious strategies to tackle the unemployment problem. we need to use this time well. although time is short, i believe we should try to organise a much more inclusive process in the run-up, involving social partners, civil society and parliamentarians. it is particularly important that we take advantage of your privileged insight into what is really happening on the ground. if we follow this approach of pooling our resources and coordinating action at all levels at european level, at national level, at regional level, at social partners level we will emerge from the crisis faster and, i believe, stronger. we will also carry more weight on the global stage. it is no coincidence that the proposals we have made for the european union's g20 position have a strong echo of our approach within europe. they are based around the same principles. with a unified european union voice in the g20, they will carry a lot of weight and the european union will be if the member states are ready to really work together in a very good position to shape the global response to this crisis. europe today has to find its strength in cohesion, in coordination, in real practical solidarity. for that we must all work closely together and stay in close touch as the task of recovery unfolds, including, of course, with this parliament. i look forward to making this a reality as we all work for recovery in the coming weeks and months.
the rapporteur. - thank you, sir president, ladies and gentlemen, minister vondra, the honourable mr barroso. the report on cohesion policy and investing in the real economy was produced in a very short time. nevertheless, we have reached a consensus and unanimously supported document. this good result would not have been possible without the participation and cooperation of my colleagues in the committee, the shadow rapporteurs and the cooperation between all the political groups, for which i thank everyone. i would like to focus on the main messages of the report. first, in any case, this report supports the measures proposed by the european commission to speed up and simplify the implementation of the structural funds, such as increasing advances, introducing more flexible cost accounting schemes, etc. these measures are really needed now, when we need an adequate response to the economic crisis, investment in the real economy, job preservation and creation, and the promotion of entrepreneurship. however, these measures are not the only expression of the need to act more effectively and efficiently. the proposals to simplify the rules are long-desired and awaited by the users of the european funds and are in response to recommendations by us and by the european court of auditors. secondly, cohesion policy is a policy of solidarity. but what we need is not just declared solidarity, but solidarity in action. in the interdependence of european economies, the negative effects of the crisis affect everyone. to counter these effects, positive results that deliver broad benefits and that deliver on the growth and development objectives set out in the lisbon strategy are needed. at the same time, it is important to preserve the social standards of eu citizens, to protect the socially vulnerable, and at the same time not to distort competition and not to compromise environmental protection. in this sense, solidarity and cohesion are most needed if we are to succeed in finding a faster way out of the crisis together. thirdly, it is important that lessons be learned from the current crisis and that the measures that will be taken do not remain isolated. analysis of errors and experience must continue. nor should the process of simplification of procedures stop there. the rules need to be made clearer, the information more accessible, the administrative burden less and the procedures more transparent. it's the only way to reduce errors and limit the opportunities for violation and corruption. finally, i would like to call on the council to adopt as soon as possible the proposed measures to speed up and simplify the use of the structural funds. i also turn to the members of the european commission, who we expect to monitor the effect of the new measures and to make new proposals along with the whole process. last but not least, i would like to emphasise the key role of the member states, on whom the implementation and achievement of real results from the implementation of cohesion policy depend. i'll close with the question of solidarity in action again.
the contribution of cohesion policy becomes even more significant in the context of the economic crisis. the main problems for the member states remain the banking sector, closures, lack of fresh money, and the contraction of the labour market. the commission has also been working on a new strategy for the european union's external relations, which will be based on the european union's external relations strategy. european support should now be directed to the target areas. it is appropriate to use the structural funds more actively and in a more appropriate way. states should focus on the ability of beneficiaries to absorb funds. i hope that the commission will rather ease the procedures for the structural funds, which should not be at the expense of controls on allocation and expenditure. i believe that the report on cohesion policy and investment in the real economy will provide ideas for dealing with the crisis and that it will be useful for the next measures to stimulate economic life that we expect from the european union summit. - thank you. - thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the efforts of the european institutions to outline measures for coordinated action by the member states and the commission to deal with the economic crisis. as is well known, the european union's cohesion policy makes an important contribution to the european economic recovery plan and is the community's largest source of investment in the real economy. as an expression of these efforts, the european parliament supports changes to the regulation on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund, in order to simplify and speed up the financial management of european funds. i hope that this simplification will benefit the beneficiaries, the ones who really benefit from the funds. this is particularly important for the poorer countries in the european union. it is an important task for the member states to ensure that they provide the necessary funding to ensure that european funds are used for their intended purpose. without prejudice to the rules of free competition and good governance standards, member states should benefit from simplified project funding procedures. thank you for your attention.
madam president, it is clear that the european aspect of the economic recovery plan and its financial backing is very negligible compared to the efforts of the member states. i hope, however, that the council will adopt a plan to support energy interconnections between countries so that a future gas crisis will be mitigated in its effects. however, solidarity could be expressed by making more flexible the criteria for erm2, the euro zone and the adoption of the euro for those countries wanting to join. it is clear that member states that now have to make great efforts to maintain a stable currency exchange rate need more support to be able to pass all the necessary steps to become members of the euro zone and thus prevent the effects of the economic crisis. i hope that will be one of the decisions taken in the near future, bearing in mind that there is already flexibility for the existing members.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, we have had a very long and useful debate, and the presidency is grateful to all the members of this house for their comments. they have rightly identified the very significant challenges that we currently face, and in particular the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. as i pointed out in my introductory remarks, this issue will be at the centre of the debate at next week’s european council meeting. despite the scale of the crisis, the presidency considers that the european union can agree on the various components of an approach which will take us forward. there is no other option than to work together in the face of this deep crisis. i therefore support the many calls this morning for greater responsibility and more intensive cooperation. i also consider that we not only can and must act together to solve europe’s problems, but also that the european union is well placed to be part of the global solution. this crisis may be deep, but if we work together europe has the necessary intellectual, financial, human and regulatory resources to continue to define and implement the appropriate responses. joseph daul said that the next european council is not just another summit, and he is certainly right. delivering on a global solution starts with playing a leading role in the g20 conference in london at the beginning of next month. at yesterday’s council meeting, ecofin ministers endorsed the terms of reference for the eu’s participation in that important meeting. they agreed, in particular, on the need for closer international coordination of macroeconomic policies and global financial regulations based on increased transparency and accountability – and that brings us back to our debate on hedge funds and other sensitive issues. they all agreed on strengthened cooperation between the financial authorities at international level, on strengthening the imf and on the need to address the role of multilateral development banks in countering the effects of the crisis on the world’s poorest populations. while we are talking about the need for solidarity, we have to be aware that this european solidarity must be accompanied by nationally responsible policies on sustainable financial development in europe. it is true that the americans are spending, but they are not asking for assistance from the imf, and they do not have a stability pact ensuring the integrity of their currency zone. we have to invest in our future, but it must be done in a way that will not undermine the long-term sustainability of our public finances or the rules of the game on the internal market. many of you referred this morning to the very real concerns of citizens in the face of rising unemployment. martin schulz said that the issue is ‘jobs, jobs and jobs’ – and he is right. we do indeed need to maintain employment, and while many measures remain the competence of the member states, there are certain things we can do. let me give one example. yesterday, ecofin reached an agreement on reducing vat in labour-intensive services sectors, such as restaurants etc. if you remember, this had been on the agenda for many years without a solution being found, and it was only yesterday, under the presidency of my country, that we were able to reach agreement on that sensitive issue. employment should be, and is, the key theme of the three reports before us this morning. we intend to address that issue at next week’s meeting. it is a key part of the lisbon strategy. i agree with those who say that the current crisis is not a reason for jettisoning the lisbon strategy. it is, in fact, all the more reason to ensure that we deliver on the strategy’s key aims. the presidency is devoting particular attention to this issue, which is why we have called an additional meeting in early may on the problem of growing unemployment. next week, we intend to agree some concrete orientations, which will create a basis for our discussions and possibly for the decisions to be taken in may. some of you also mentioned the need for reaching an agreement on mitigating and adapting to climate change, in preparation for the meeting in copenhagen. graham watson asked how much we will have to pay. i think that is premature. there are some estimates – such as in the commission communication on this particular matter, which contains estimates from the various ngos and institutions – and these are pretty high. however, it would be premature to give an estimate now. we have to wait for the us and other stakeholders in the process to inform us of their plans, and that is what we intend to find out about at the meeting with mr obama’s administration in prague in early april. to open the account now would not be the correct tactical move. we shall, of course, keep you fully informed of all aspects of the next european council meeting, and i will ensure that prime minister topolánek is fully aware of the views expressed here this morning. he will report to parliament, at the next plenary session, on the outcome of the european council, and i look forward to a constructive exchange of views on that occasion.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i agree with those who have said that this crisis has been underestimated and misunderstood for a long time. that is why it is perhaps quite good that in the opening balance at least we agree that we do not know how deep this crisis will go. we do not know how long this crisis will last, and therefore we do not know whether we have done enough. i am sorry to have to disagree with jean-claude juncker here for the exception. we don't even know if what we've done will have any effect or not. we don't even know that at this moment. the only thing we really know is that we will not get out of this crisis unless we get the financial sector back on track very quickly. that was the beginning of the problem, and it's now pretty clear how it all came about. and we also know why the measures taken so far to stabilise the financial sector have not had any effect - at least not enough - because the banks know that another wave is coming. they are risk-taking at the moment because they know that not all the risks they have on their books are known yet, and we have to be politically prepared for that as well. but one thing is also clear: there is no going back to the pre-crisis financial system. if you think that the state is now taking care of everything, and the european union is taking care of everything, and then things go on as before, you are wrong. it is clear that we need robust, long-term supervision of the financial sector and financial institutions, and not just european supervision. it is very important that we do this as a system of global governance together with our partners, and we will only do this with our partners if we as europeans have a clear line of action. the more united we are on this issue, the greater our chances of actually achieving something. if the signals coming from the capitals of europe, from washington, from beijing, from tokyo, remain different, we have little prospect of a sensible system of global governance. we also agree that the current situation contains the most serious social explosives, simply because what we can do to stabilise the financial sector cannot be done to the extent of supporting real economy firms that are struggling as a result of the financial crisis. we all know that. the european response to the crisis in the real economy, the crisis in our companies, the crisis in our industry, is a response that focuses on jobs. it's not about the dividends for the shareholders or the bonuses for the managers. the point is that those who are least responsible for this crisis, and who are not responsible at all, namely the workers, can keep their jobs. they must keep these jobs because otherwise they cannot live a life of self-determination, freedom and human dignity. we want to defend jobs in the european economy. that is why the spending programmes were necessary. there is much debate about whether they could have been bigger or should have been or not. the problem we have here is that the community budget does not show any flexibility at this point. we can easily say in the european parliament, in the european commission, that we need a major economic stimulus package, that we need to pump a lot of money into the economy, because it will not be our money, because we do not have it. it can only be the money of the member states and please remember that the national parliaments also have a role to play. we have tried to ensure that the spending programmes are organised in such a way that short-term needs do not jeopardise long-term objectives, precisely what several speakers from all the groups have said, namely that we are in an economic transformation, a transformation towards a low-carbon economy, towards a resource-efficient economy and towards a knowledge-based economy. this transformation must continue during the crisis. that's why we say to companies: don't skimp on r&amp;d, don't skimp on innovation, keep your regular staff. the measures we take in the financial field must support these objectives. i am happy to agree with all those who say that things could have gone a little better. but we should always remember that the money spent here is not the money of the european union. it is the money of the member states, and other things are involved than what we think is right here. the economic guiding principle of the lisbon strategy, which is what we are talking about here today, is not the market left to itself. the lisbon strategy does not assume that the best market economy is one that can be allowed to develop undisturbed in the radical sense of the market, but the lisbon strategy is based on the firm conviction that the market needs rules if it is to live up to its social and environmental responsibilities. these are the rules of politics, and we should not let them take away anything from us. that is why i also believe that the objectives of the lisbon strategy have not changed and that it is the wrong question to ask: how is it that we have got into this crisis despite lisbon? a different economic strategy in europe would not have prevented the macroeconomic imbalances that led to this crisis and the misconduct in international financial markets. let me conclude by saying that we want to get european companies, and all of them, through this crisis as safely as possible. we must help them to do this by giving them access to finance. i think that is the main problem at the moment, the credit crunch affects the big and the small. the european investment bank is doing what it can. we have reason to thank the european investment bank for its great flexibility. but it has already reached the limits of what is possible. it is already clear that the credit needs of europe's large and small businesses cannot be met in the second half of this year because the european investment bank has already reached its limits. everyone must know that the situation is becoming very serious and it is therefore worth considering whether the situation of european businesses cannot be improved by, for example, this parliament quickly taking up and adopting the commission's proposals aimed at avoiding unnecessary costs for european businesses. we have now put forward proposals which could lead to cost reductions of up to eur 30 billion a year for european businesses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission is convinced that the opportunities and risks of european integration will become clearer than ever a few days before this summit. the chances are very clear that if we join forces, if we really coordinate and act with purpose, if we use our full creativity, then we even have the possibility to emerge stronger from this crisis. we can then compensate for the fact that we cannot take decisions centrally, as the united states of america does, and then implement them everywhere, but that we must agree among the 27 member states. but at the same time, we're seeing the risks more than ever. the risks for all of us if one or a few of us, in this situation, instead of solidarity and community, bet on protectionism or economic nationalism. without a common compass to guide us through this crisis, we will all get lost in the fog created by this crisis.
the rapporteur. - thank you, madam chairman. cohesion policy has proved its contribution to overcoming socioeconomic difficulties and to implementing structural reforms in the member states and their regions. the experience gained so far and the considerable resources allocated - we are talking about over 340 billion over a seven-year period - are vital in the current economic crisis and it is vital that this money is really used, and used in the best way, in the interests of european citizens and businesses. at a time when every single euro is important for the recovery of the european economy, we cannot allow funds to be misused, which is why we welcome the simplification of the rules but also call for their proper implementation. mr. ferhogen, when he spoke today, said something that is true: we don't know how long the crisis will last. but we should say one thing today: the decisions we are going to take, and of course the decisions the european council is going to take next week, should be felt as a result already this year, i would say, should be felt even this summer. that is what european citizens are waiting for from us, to see a light in the tunnel, to see hope for a way out, a quicker way out of this crisis. and i want to say something to the few colleagues who have tried today to draw an economic dividing line between the old and the new member states. i believe that the cohesion policy, which is what we are taking today as a solution, counters these thoughts. i think that all of this is very harmful and we have to overcome it with a collective effort. - thank you. - thank you.
thank you, madam president. turkey plays a key role in europe's geostrategic and energy security and will continue to be a stabilising factor during the crisis. it is true that events such as the akp closure process, the ergenekon case and the local elections have delayed the country's reforms, but the appointment of a new chief negotiator creates a great opportunity for the turkish government to accelerate the process of aligning legislation with european standards and to make progress on the political criteria in the negotiating chapters. i believe that turkey should achieve three priorities if it is to make serious progress on the road to membership. first, to continue to work constructively for the success of the cyprus talks, but this commitment must be shared by all parties in the process and not be used as a pretext to block the negotiations. second, to respect freedom of speech and thought. and third, to ensure the protection of minority communities, especially their cultural and educational rights. an increasingly modern turkey must win back its pro-european supporters. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, commissioner, we cannot but welcome the commission's proposal and perhaps it is really timely, because in a situation of such crisis all european countries need solidarity. we have just yesterday and the day before discussed quite extensively the question of solidarity between the new and the old member states. a sort of artificial argument, but one that actually exists in the minds of many people. but it is the european union's eastern neighbours that need particular solidarity now, because they do not have the support mechanisms that their neighbours, their immediate neighbours in the west, have, and such an initiative will give them considerable assurance that the european union is thinking of them and is ready to invest in developing relations. at the same time, we can say that the initiative is a good one, but it remains to be seen how this initiative will develop, because, of course, we have seen good initiatives that have been suppressed over time. on the other hand, it is a fact that some of the countries targeted by this initiative have as their primary objective membership of the european union. in this sense, it is very important that this idea of the eastern partnership is not seen, either by us or by our eastern neighbours, as an attempt to replace future membership forever with a similar initiative. in this context, i would like to ask you, commissioner, to share with your contacts how our eastern partners are reacting to this initiative, of course, they cannot but support it formally, but it is precisely in the context of possible future membership that they have these concerns. i also believe that there is one missing element in this initiative, which has also been highlighted by my colleagues, namely the role of russia. of course, we know how delicate this issue is, because the countries we're talking about are neighbors of the european union, but also neighbors of russia. and it is very important that we develop relations with russia in relation to these countries so that there is no competition between the european union and russia, a clash between the two main factors in these countries, which leads to political instability. in fact, to some extent, we are witnessing exactly that right now: some countries are literally divided and their citizens are divided between expectations of russia and expectations of the european union. i think we need to be more proactive and we have a lot more to offer these countries. in conclusion, i would like to say that i support visa facilitation, which is very important, but i would like to see more measures in this initiative relating to education, exchanges, everything that has to do with widening contacts between the citizens of these countries and the european union, and of course increasing knowledge in these countries about the european union. - thank you. - thank you.
i would like to congratulate mr salafranca on the success of his report in such an important area as global cooperation with our strategic partners. globalisation has not only brought us benefits, it has also made us more vulnerable to global crises and threats. therefore, identifying strategic partners and strengthening collaborations at global level will enable us to address current and future challenges. in the report we point out that for mexico europe is the second most important partner after the united states of america. it is important to stress that europe sees mexico as an important partner for raw materials. it is the security of raw material supply that is one of the key elements in sustaining europe's sustainable development. for its part, europe is a leader in environmental protection and the implementation of green industrial solutions. the strategic partnership with mexico will strengthen bilateral relations, particularly in terms of more efficient exchange of technology and raw materials, and provides a good basis for bilateral cooperation in the field of environmental protection. to this end, we must develop and improve the sectoral programmes which contain the mechanisms and measures for scientific and technological transfer, because only concrete measures will give real character to cooperation. moreover, this transfer of science and technology is unthinkable without the creation of educational exchanges and the establishment of a joint network of research centres. i therefore call for deeper bilateral cooperation, also in the fields of education and innovation. thank you for your attention.
thank you, mr chairman. i supported the progress report on turkey. the accession negotiations with turkey to the european union are a serious challenge for all member states, of political, economic and security significance. it is particularly important that the country fulfils the accession criteria, consistency, sufficient precision and transparency to the citizens of the european union. i think it is particularly important that the process should be conducted in good cooperation with neighbouring countries. in this respect, i think we should note some progress between bulgaria and turkey, with the agreement reached to open negotiations on issues that have not been resolved so far, namely the resolution of the property problems of thracian refugees, and this was thanks to the efforts of the european parliament. we will be following this process very closely, as it affects the rights of thousands of people and these rights must be respected throughout the european union. the thracian question is as important as turkey's relations with its neighbours. - thank you. - thank you.
mr president, i supported the report which was tabled on turkey's progress, because i believe it is an objective report which enables both turkey and the european union to move forward together with turkey's preparations for membership. at the same time, i am somewhat disappointed that the house has rejected the proposal of the socialist group to state that turkey's membership of the european union is a shared objective for turkey and for the european union. i think that in order to want turkey to make faster progress on the problems we see in its development, we must also be sufficiently open and leave no doubt in our partners that this process is really about turkey's accession to the european union. turkey's role will grow, and the european union has an interest in having a non-christian country among its members, because that will give us a number of opportunities to conduct policies that are currently impossible. thank you. thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, the ataca delegation votes against the progress report on turkey because we see no progress, and there can be no progress. turkey has no regard for anything but its own interests, which do not include respect for human rights and other european and christian values. for 80 years turkey has not fulfilled the ankara treaty, under which it owes bulgaria 10 billion dollars. imagine how much it will meet european standards. yesterday mr wiersma mentioned that the non-recognition of the armenian genocide of 1915-16 was a problem, but what about the genocide of the bulgarians, which lasted for 500 years, the massacres in stara zagora, batak and perushitsa, described by the international european commission in 1876? mr wiersma also said that there was no place in the eu for an islamist turkey, but 20 years ago turkish islamists blew up cars with women and children in bulgaria. for these terrorists, turkey paid to have monuments built. this is today's turkey, ruled by a fundamentalist and islamist party. these are her values and we think they are unfit for europe.
the outcome of the last european council is an example of how one of the european union's fundamental principles - solidarity - is being put into practice. the €5.6 billion in aid will help the continent's peoples to overcome the effects of the global financial and economic crisis. for bulgaria, the €105 million approved for energy security, broadband internet and agriculture is an expression of sympathy and growing confidence in the government's anti-crisis programme. it is essential for my party that the european commission approves and the european parliament supports the requested extension until 2013 of the compensation for the premature closure of units 3 and 4 of the kozloduy npp. bulgaria has suffered the most losses since the recent gas war between russia and ukraine, and it is important to respect the principle of equal treatment of all countries within the union. i am counting on the positive signal from the president of the commission, mr barroso, and i call on my colleagues in the european parliament to allow justice and solidarity to prevail in europe.
ladies and gentlemen, in recent years in bulgaria there has been an ugly phenomenon called "vote buying". this is what absolutely all political forces do, except the patriotic party ataka. even parties that claim to be an alternative to the ruling party are paying voters, as the data from a few days ago in the village of brest, in the pleven region, shows. the upcoming elections in bulgaria are shaping up to be the most manipulated and vile elections in the new history of bulgaria. the turkish ethnic and anti-constitutional party dps has prepared the colossal sum of 60 million euros to be able to get the maximum number of deputies representing the interests of turkey, both in the european parliament and in the national assembly of the republic of bulgaria. the danger is very real that in the next european parliament there will be representatives who have earned their seats by buying votes. we at attack say: no to turkey in the eu! and we call on president pöttering to urge the bulgarian authorities to see to it that this is thwarted in the upcoming election laws.
ladies and gentlemen, at the last part-session, in connection with the debate on turkey, the question of the turkish non-recognition of the armenian genocide was raised. but you don't know about another unrecognized genocide committed by the turks for 500 years - the bulgarian one. i'll give you a little piece of it, which happened over four days in april 1876, in the words of the american journalist mcgahn, who wrote at the time: whether these reports are fair or not, it doesn't matter to me, once the terrible figure of 15,000 people killed in four days and nights is acknowledged. no rounding of that number can increase its horror, which reaches colossal proportions when you fully grasp all the deadly and shameful details of that inhuman slaughter. the french consul himself heard the bashibozo speak with admiration to their attentive listeners that they cut off the heads of the children and watched with curiosity as their little bodies fell and rolled like slaughtered chickens. this, in a few lines, is only four days of the five-century total genocide of ottoman turkey against the enslaved bulgarians. we, the members of parliament from ataca, want recognition and an apology before any talk about turkey's membership of the european union is opened.
in writing. the ep report on arts education in the eu is part of the ongoing efforts to develop intercultural dialogue and is essential in the context of the european year of creativity and innovation. there is no doubt that art education needs more and more attention. it is important that it be a compulsory part of the educational curriculum from an early age, because it stimulates the emotional and cultural development of the younger generation. its stronger practical orientation and the inclusion of interactive learning would contribute to a better understanding of national and european cultural values. improving the mobility of learners, teachers and professionals in this sector is a direct path to a sense of european identity and a stimulus to cultural and religious tolerance. member states should invest in creating better opportunities for informal and independent art education and avoid cutting back on programmes in this area. their support for the professional realisation of artists will increase the general interest in the different types of art education. public-private partnerships in the sector will help modernise education programmes and increase the integration of new technologies into the learning process. most of the resources for a coordinated european arts education policy are invested in increasing europe's cultural influence globally, for creativity and indirectly for the eu economy.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate mrs hegyi on her excellent report, which i am sure will make a significant contribution to the intensification of civil dialogue in the european union. the successful implementation of the common communication priorities of the european institutions in partnership with the member states will be an important step towards better informing the citizens of the european union. only a well-informed european can use the opportunities available to him and participate in an active dialogue about europe. we have all seen what the problems of information have led to - negative referendums and blocking european development. as the chair of a civil society organisation in bulgaria, i am deeply convinced that involving citizens in decision-making processes will enable them to contribute directly to the political process at eu level. i believe this is one of the important areas that urgently needs to be reformed and improved. i believe that with this report the european parliament is giving the necessary guidance and recommendations to the other institutions, but also to civil society organisations, because citizens are the most important element for the future development of europe. without their cooperation and participation, the goal we have set for ourselves will be impossible.
member of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would like to thank wholeheartedly lambert van nistelrooij, constanze krehl, oldřich vlasák, wojciech roszkowski, miroslav mikolášik and zsolt lászló becsey for the opportunity generated for us to have this discussion today. it is a discussion that will certainly contribute to the debate on the future cohesion policy. we are in the middle of that debate, as you know, and there are many very specific recommendations in your reports, which i will take as important inputs into this debate on the future cohesion policy, while there are also several major messages that cut across all the reports. the first is that cohesion policy is, and should remain, a central pillar for achieving the european union’s sustainable development goals. that commitment will remain even more relevant in the post-crisis period, when generating green-collar jobs will be the european pass to sustainable employment. there is also another clear message in all the reports, which is that cohesion policy should cover all the european territory, while the focus of cohesion policy should clearly remain on supporting the catch-up process of the poorest. i share your view on the importance of delivering european public goods in all regions. the crisis makes that message even more relevant. many regions are looking these days at new ways and means of adapting to rapid global changes and avoiding the risk of falling behind. by mobilising under-utilised resources and exploiting comparative advantages, cohesion policy aims to ensure that all european regions, be they lagging behind or not, contribute to overall economic growth and change and to the creation of sustainable jobs, and that all citizens can benefit from the internal market. we also share the conviction that geography matters in europe, and this is one of the main reasons we launched the green paper on territorial cohesion. i am very pleased to see that you understand territorial cohesion in a way that is close to my heart, which is that territorial cohesion is first of all about mobilising the development potential of all the different territories. regional policy is a development policy that helps citizens and enterprises unlock the inherent potentials of the places in which they live and work. i agree with you on the need to improve synergies and coordination between all european and national policies with a territorial impact. here, the challenge is for territorial cohesion to be taken into account upfront when designing policies, and not to be seen as a tool to repair the damage once it has been done. this means, among other things, that we need to invest more in linking the regions that are lagging behind with the more prosperous ones. your message is also clear on the need to strengthen the urban-rural relationship. faced with the present fragmentation of funds, it also means that we need to understand better how to streamline the rules and procedures for all the funds with respect to eligible expenditure, management, monitoring, reporting and financial management obligations. there is a need for greater flexibility when delineating the territories in which cohesion policy programmes are designed and implemented. in other words, we need to target the policy at functional areas. we need, for example, to look sometimes inside cities at neighbourhood level, and sometimes beyond the boundaries of the cities, at metropolitan level. this functional or flexible geography does not stop at national borders, and cooperation across national borders is of clear european added value and importance for citizens. there are still barriers in the european internal market, and significant untapped potential in cross-border labour markets and transnational clusters. the baltic sea strategy, which we are preparing now, is a good example of what we mean by a functional area. i see this as a test case for territorial cohesion, which could then be extended to other macro-regions. we are working on this. all the reports underline the need for cohesion policy to respond to new challenges such as demography, energy, climate and globalisation. all european regions will be affected by those new challenges, but their impact will vary significantly across europe, often resulting in losses of competitiveness, employment and social cohesion. this might consolidate existing disparities and create new ones, but these challenges can also be turned into opportunities. to achieve this we need to continue emphasising cohesion policy investment in research and development, and innovation in developing a knowledge-based economy and in promoting entrepreneurship and business support services. these are key factors for boosting the sustainable competitiveness of the european economy and for generating sustainable jobs and growth. they are at the heart of cohesion policy and have a strong territorial dimension, which requires tailor-made solutions and policy support. to render the management of cohesion policy programmes more efficient – and this is our common concern – there is a need to reinforce inter-regional exchanges of experience and of good practice. good governance practice must be disseminated rapidly across europe. this may help also to overcome difficulties in implementing cohesion programmes. i share your view that we must continue to reform policy delivery. you call for fostering the effort devoted to so-called ‘financial engineering’ as a means of tapping the potential of the private sector. as you well know, in an important cultural shift, we have decided to complement a traditional ground-based approach with new tools. your support for our micro-credit initiative is good news, and i thank you very much for this. i am convinced that developing micro-credit schemes is crucial for the sustainable development and competitiveness of european regions and cities. it requires action to be taken at all levels. we will look into ways and means of reinforcing this instrument in the future. you call also for a strengthening of the fundamental principles of cohesion policy, such as partnership, multi-level governance and transparency, and i fully endorse that call. by building on local knowledge, by involving all the relevant actors on the ground and by improving the visibility of the european cohesion policy, we will certainly enhance the impact and the quality of european cohesion investment. once again, my thanks for your continuous efforts to render cohesion policy more effective and more efficient in the future.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, as rapporteur on behalf of the itre committee on the regulation on the use of the structural funds, i would like to thank mr mikolašik for the main conclusions and suggestions of itre in his report. firstly, this concerns the efforts of the member states to link the use of the funds closely to the lisbon strategy. at the same time, it is stressed that the funds allocated to energy are extremely insufficient, especially as regards the funds for renewable sources. we call once again on the european commission to increase from 3 to at least 5% the amount of funds used to improve the efficiency of housing. at the same time, the report does not reflect our proposal for carbon capture projects, even though the member states agreed last week to support twelve projects in seven countries worth €1.5 billion. this is far from enough to solve the problems in all member states that are interested in providing funds before 2012 to implement such projects. i therefore urge that this issue be taken up by the commission in seeking resources, including the use of funds from the european investment bank.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today's debate once again shows the general consensus that cohesion policy is a necessary and useful policy. those of us who support it want it to continue to develop and produce positive results. i therefore believe it is important to stick to one basic requirement: cohesion policy must be accessible to those who are targeted and who need it, namely the regions and territories that are lagging behind and are experiencing difficulties in their socioeconomic development. mrs krehl's report lists a number of obstacles facing potential beneficiaries of structural fund assistance. obstacles due to bureaucratic difficulties and complex and unclear procedures lead to errors. this discourages the beneficiaries and feeds the criticism of the control authorities. to tackle this dual challenge, on the one hand, we need all the institutions and member states to work together, and on the other, i would like to call for building on the experience gained and paying more attention to the positive results when looking for ideas to overcome the obstacles. in this connection, the proposals we make in mrs krehl's report on good practice are a solid basis for further measures and actions to simplify the rules, improve the exchange of information and communication in the use of the structural funds. the european commission and the managing authorities have a key role to play again, but they must of course know that they have the support of the european parliament. mr van nistelrooij stressed that cohesion policy was an expression of solidarity. we must work effectively so that our citizens can feel, feel, touch the results of this solidarity. the ultimate goal of cohesion policy must be equality of opportunity for every european citizen, regardless of where they live.
what are the main objectives of the micro-credit initiative? to stimulate the development of this instrument and the creation of a favourable institutional and business environment, to assist non-bank financial institutions to increase their capacity and achieve growth and sustainable development, and to secure the trust of the private capital market. mr becsey's report focused on the potential of microcredit for integrating disadvantaged groups into the labour market. by coordinating various measures and initiatives in this context, the european commission should propose a common european framework with precise parameters, including for non-bank financial institutions for microcredit. the promotion of entrepreneurship results in better competitiveness and a higher quality of the knowledge-based economy, in line with the renewed lisbon objectives.
ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is one of the main components of the european union. for decades, it has been the expression of the common desire of european citizens for a better future, with a higher quality of life and work. the results of cohesion policy prove that it is one of the most successful union policies. today, member states that were once significantly below the union average are now among the most developed in the world. these principles serve both to demonstrate the effectiveness of cohesion policy and to motivate new entrants, such as my country, bulgaria. we, the bulgarian citizens, have long awaited our full membership of the european union and rightly place high hopes on the opportunities offered by the structural and cohesion funds. i think i speak for all of us when i thank commissioner danuta hübner for her enormous efforts in the field of regional development and her strong support for cohesion policy. the five reports of the regional development committee underline the long-term commitment of the european parliament and the commission to a strong and effective cohesion policy. ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the financial crisis, we are facing today the problems of climate change, demographic change, energy efficiency, over-urbanization, migration and others. all these issues require a consolidated and strong response from the european union. so cohesion policy must be used as a driving force for the changes we need to make. such a challenge for the union is, for example, to reduce external dependence on oil and gas. ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy and the structural funds have always been more than just an expression of european solidarity. they are indeed a mutually beneficial scheme through which new markets and new trade links are created. in conclusion, i would say that every citizen has the right to benefit from cohesion policy. that, of course, also applies to the citizens of my country, who deserve a higher quality of work and life.
i take the floor to explain why the attack delegation voted against this report. this is certainly not because of the many positive things it mentions in terms of the transparency of the work of the institutions. we are, of course, in favour of transparency in the work of the institutions of the european union, but we are against the idea that this transparency can only be achieved by adopting the treaty of lisbon and by bringing this treaty, which is already dead to us, back on the agenda, with many new and new reports which otherwise have a different position, a different subject. moreover, from the point of view of the treaty of lisbon, we are against the adoption of this treaty because it will open the doors to turkey's membership. turkey's membership in the european union means economic and demographic death for bulgaria. and that is why we voted against this report.
i voted in favour of the report on territorial cohesion because i am convinced that this concept should be developed and applied as a horizontal principle underpinning all community policies and actions. during the debate on cohesion policy today, we called for a substantial strengthening of the direct involvement of regional and local authorities in the planning and implementation of the relevant programmes during the next programming period. the european union's policies, and in particular cohesion policy, have transformed management from an often centralised system into an increasingly integrated multi-level system. i therefore believe it is essential to promote in the member states the establishment of a system of territorial management based on an integrated 'bottom-up' approach and allowing for more active civic participation. i call on the member states to start considering how best to consolidate and support the concept of territorial cohesion in their national programmes and policies. in this context, i believe that the basic principles of coordinated development and partnership between urban and rural areas are of particular importance and must be strictly respected.
i supported the report on territorial cohesion, understanding that it is a policy of the utmost importance for all regions of the european union. cohesion funds, combined with national funds, can make even the most backward regions well developed and bring them on a par with the developed ones. for my country, bulgaria, this is of utmost importance. it is important that all resources are allocated fairly in planning, that the principle of cohesion is applied to all the priority policies of the european union. taking into account all the factors that influence balanced regional and social development, we need to find the most precise mechanisms to enable some of the new member states with lower standards to catch up with the others. we need clear criteria in planning to avoid any disadvantage to either side, because it is planning that allows for inadequate and inefficient allocations, which then affect the quality of life of citizens.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. − colleagues, as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i would like to stress the importance of the mid-term review of the financial framework for 2007-13. i welcome mr böge's report because it also points out areas where changes and improvements are needed, and thus paves the way towards a more effective european union. from my committee's point of view, we are mainly interested in spending money on cohesion policy, which is one of the main parts of the budget. we stand by our long-standing position that the bulk of financial resources should be directed to the less developed regions that need union support. i am satisfied that the report does not conflict with our position on these issues. there are new global challenges with significant territorial implications. to overcome them, adequate funding must be provided for the period after 2013: 0.35% of the union's gdp may not be enough to achieve our objectives. we regret that the report did not fully accept our proposal, but we welcome the fact that it reaches a conclusion that is very close to ours. we also looked at the state of the structural funds, which unfortunately has a low level of absorption in some countries. while some of the inefficiency in dealing with them is the fault of national authorities, i believe that the complexity of the system is also one of the reasons for the low levels of uptake. our committee has proposed simplification of procedures and i am glad that mr böge's report follows a similar logic. our committee believes that we need to re-open the debate about the expenditure of resources that we lose because of the n+2/n+3 rule. during the negotiations on the 2007-13 structural funds regulations, parliament proposed that unspent resources be used for operational programmes with a better absorption rate. the böge report does not deal with this idea, but i think we should consider it as a starting point for further discussion. in conclusion, i would like to thank mr böge for his good cooperation and for the excellent report he has produced.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise reached on the introduction of biometric data in the issuing of entry visas by the member states of the european union undoubtedly provides a higher level of security. at the same time, adequate safeguards shall be provided for the protection of personal data and the privacy of travellers. i would like to point out that in any case improving the technical requirements will help to combat crossborder crime, illegal immigration and human trafficking. for border countries like my own, bulgaria, which are under increased pressure from immigration flows and international organised crime activity, the successful and early introduction of the new standards will be key to protecting the union's external borders. the proposed amendments also allow member states to improve and speed up the visa issuing process, which will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening links with third countries. this will result in an overall improvement of the union's image. of course, the possible economic consequences for visa applicants must also be taken into account when implementing the new legislation. the collection of additional charges to those already in place may lead to the creation of new barriers to the freedom of movement of conscientious passengers. finally, i would like to stress that ensuring good protection of data exchange in relation to the issuance of visas for travel within the european union will be of key importance. parliament has always protected the personal data of union citizens and i believe it is fair and moral to apply the same high standards when protecting the data of our guests.
commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs millán mon, for her comprehensive report and for her strong position on the abolition of the visa regime. four years after the start of visa-free travel negotiations between the united states and the european union, 80 million people from member states still have to queue up and apply for a us visa in their passports. despite the significant progress made so far, the us administration refuses to take the final step and apply the principle of reciprocity to the other five countries by including them in the visa waiver programme. in our resolution of 22 may 2008, we called for the negotiations to include all member states in the visa waiver programme to be completed before the european elections in june. what is troubling is the lack of progress on the issue so far, as well as the numerous indications in the press that there is no real change in american policy. i would also like to note commissioner barrot's visit to washington last week, where the negotiations on lifting visa restrictions continued. it is not yet clear what the concrete results will be after this visit. i am afraid that despite the commission's efforts, the objectives we have set ourselves will not be achieved by the end of this parliament's term. i would like to point out, however, that unfortunately some of the actions of individual member states are more likely to contribute to our american partners' misunderstanding of the european union as a whole. so i take this opportunity to call on all european governments to change their policies and take concrete steps to give real support to the representatives of the european commission. i also call on all colleagues to support the declaration which has been initiated by several colleagues, including myself, for the abolition of the visa regime by the united states for citizens of all the member states of the european union.
in writing. justice is one of europe's core values! i join my colleagues from the uen in their resolution rc-b6-0165/2009 in stressing that the eu is based on the rule of law, which is one of the main characteristics of democracy. this is the principle on which parliamentary elections should be conducted. in bulgaria, however, the problem of buying votes is the opposite. after the previous local elections were compromised repeatedly by the reckless vote buying of gerb, dps and bsp, the common man was left with the feeling that he had no choice. this effect significantly reduces his desire to vote again. despite the existing penal code and despite numerous reports of violations, one of which is mentioned in the commission's report, there are still no convictions for these crimes because the relevant criminal authorities apparently do not want to stop the vote buying! in bulgaria, the weak will to justice continues and the well-known culprits are once again preparing election campaigns, and those who sold their votes are now looking for the new buyer with the best offer. i want to emphasize that while these violations are allowed in bulgaria and the state continues to do nothing about it, the honest voter is practically deprived of his basic human right - the right to voting! i call on parliament not to stand by!
ladies and gentlemen, the content of this report is entirely consistent with its title. it covers rights from the european charter of rights in the european union and the un convention on the rights of the child and goes as far as their protection from crime. congratulations on the speaker. the internet is a world in which facts are manifested that are not explicitly recorded as violations of rights and freedoms or as crimes against them. opportunities for expression, information and social contact are often replaced by their negative extreme. the internet is a breeding ground for abuse and freedom of expression. in the absence of anonymity and control, the effect of the disclaimer of choice and use of language media is created. often, they are permeated with rhetoric, cynicism, even vulgarity. they grow into a language of mistrust and hatred, they carry over into everyday life, they become role models, they shape attitudes. such a vocabulary does not contribute to the social, spiritual, and moral well-being of children, nor does it lead to culture and values. that's why i'm drawing attention to the need for a separate study of the language of the internet and its impact on children's personality development.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing a very important directive which will enable us to resolve some of the still controversial issues in the area of non-discrimination. i consider it particularly important that it reaffirms the right to freedom of religion and practice and the principle of non-discrimination in this area. at the same time, the directive explicitly refers to declaration no 11 on the status of churches and non-confessional community organisations, in which the european union respects and does not affect the status of churches and religious communities in the member states as conferred on them by national legislation. the right of member states to establish and apply specific provisions in this regard is also recognised. of course, there must be a synchronisation of european law with the right of the states to regulate individual areas. matter is complicated. it requires clear relationships so as not to infringe on anyone's rights, including those of people belonging to established churches.
in writing. we've been through this together, and we're going to get through it together. that means we have to cooperate both in europe and with the rest of the world. but first we must do our work here in the european union, and more specifically in the european parliament, where the interests of all european citizens are represented. the european commission's proposals we are considering today are designed to give new impetus to european economies and thus help them to emerge from recession. the amendments to the cohesion policy structural funds regulation will provide new incentives for investment and help to restore confidence in economies. these changes are particularly relevant for countries with a low rate of european funds uptake. however, this will only be possible if the national administrations concerned also apply the common standards of good governance and partnership. inefficient working methods and corrupt practices, which unfortunately still exist, must be put to an end. we must act now and together. as rapporteur for the epp-ed, i call on you to support the commission's proposal to amend the financial management regulation for the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund and the european social fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a dynamic and tense time of change and new challenges, and in recent months, in the context of the global economic crisis. the european parliament's committee on agriculture adopted yesterday a report on the allocation of additional funds to farmers and rural areas in the member states to deal with the consequences of the crisis. eur 1 20 000 000 will support the agricultural sector of the european union at a difficult time. i believe that farmers and rural inhabitants in the community will read this important message for a europe of solidarity. investments in internet infrastructure, restructuring the dairy sector, renewable energy, biodiversity and water conservation are key to solving a large proportion of the problems in these regions and creating alternatives for the people living there. the possibility of directing part of the funds to loan and guarantee funds will in practice facilitate the implementation of the projects. i expect the council and the commission to support the european parliament's efforts to provide the necessary support to the millions of farmers in the community.
madam president, today, in the context of the economic crisis and the loss of jobs in the member states of the european union, the risk of the exploitation of child labour increasing is serious. unfortunately, in a crisis like this, the women and children are the ones who suffer the most. despite the good legislative framework at european level and good decisions at national level, including in the country i represent - bulgaria - practice in many cases does not follow the law. the problem is particularly acute for migrant groups, the roma community. preventive measures at all levels and reinforced enforcement throughout the european union are needed. many companies use child labor despite the relevant legal restrictions. the number of cases of breaches of labour law in the member states is in the thousands. the european commission should organise targeted initiatives to combat the exploitation of child labour and push for the strengthening of control mechanisms in this process. if we are to seek to protect the interests of children in our european policy, this must be a precondition.
in writing. transparency and democratic relations between citizens and institutions are fundamental principles in europe and fundamental rights of european citizens. it is on these principles that parliamentary elections should be conducted. in bulgaria, however, the problem of buying votes is the opposite. after the previous local elections were compromised repeatedly by the reckless vote buying of gerb, dps and bsp, the common man was left with the feeling that he had no choice. this effect significantly reduces his desire to vote again. despite the existing penal code and despite numerous reports of violations, one of which is mentioned in the commission's report, there are still no convictions for these crimes because the relevant criminal authorities apparently do not want to stop the vote buying! in bulgaria, the weak will to justice continues and the well-known culprits are once again preparing election campaigns, and those who sold their votes are now looking for the new buyer with the best offer. i want to emphasize that while these violations are allowed in bulgaria and the state continues to do nothing about it, the honest voter is practically deprived of his basic human right - the right to voting! this is unacceptable to european citizens. i call on parliament not to stand by!
mr. chairman, colleagues, the bulgarian society is currently facing a danger, namely the transformation of the police from a public protection body into a means for the execution of political rackets and gangster orders. on easter eve, the municipal councilor of burgas municipality, 64-year-old petko petkov, was knocked to the ground and beaten by two uniformed police officers in front of many witnesses in front of the church. the official police report the next day didn't mention the case at all. this is another police violence against members of the ataca party after the beating of mep dimitar stoyanov and the sofia municipal councillor. none of these assaults were investigated. indicative of the deliberate ineffectiveness of the police in cases where there is a warrant is the fact that in bulgaria there is not a single case of kidnapping uncovered, and there are already more than 15, the last two again this month. there is a sense of fear and helplessness in our society. being a policeman in bulgaria has become synonymous with a lucrative business. when law enforcement officers are criminals, then who do we have to be careful of and who will protect the people? the question remains.
the rapporteur. - madam president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction that agreement has been reached between the european parliament and the council on the third energy package, including the regulation on access conditions to the gas transmission networks, on which i am rapporteur. i would like to acknowledge the contribution of the czech presidency and the active support of the european commission in finding common solutions. in the area of access to gas transmission networks, the objectives of the third energy package have been achieved. the basis for the construction of a common european energy market based on rules detailed in mandatory network codes has been established. the potential for developing regional cooperation has been increased, where the agency for cooperation between energy regulators will play a key stimulating role alongside the european network of transmission system operators and national regulators. significantly enhance security of supply and stimulate the construction of new infrastructure by developing a ten-year network investment plan by the european network of operators, the implementation of which is monitored by national regulators and supervised by the agency. all market participants shall be given the opportunity, through clearly defined procedures, to participate in the development of network codes and to propose their amendment, if practice shows such a need. strengthened conditions for competition between suppliers through stricter rules on information and transparency of the activity of transmission operators. i would like to thank in particular the participants in the negotiations for their support for the proposals i made on the ten-year investment plan and the development of regional cooperation initiatives. i am also satisfied that the negotiations resulted in a better balance of powers between the european network of transmission system operators, the agency for the cooperation of national regulators and the european commission in order to ensure the establishment of a functioning, efficient and competitive market. in particular, i would like to emphasise that the work on the five legislative acts of the third energy package was carried out in close cooperation. this has created a common framework where the individual elements complement and reinforce each other. i would like to note the significant result of the active cooperation with my fellow rapporteurs, mrs eluned morgan, mr mussa, mr vidal-quadras and mr chichester. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who, at all stages of the negotiations, made constructive and very useful proposals. special thanks also go to the chairman of the itre committee and his secretariat. madam president, 2008 began with the interruption of gas supplies to bulgaria and slovenia, with a sharp decrease in gas supplies to other countries in central and eastern europe. i believe that, on the basis of the third energy package, the unexpected proposals by the european commission to give new substance to the gas security directive, and the gas interconnection projects supported by the economic recovery plan, the european union will be ready at the end of 2008 to respond with more material resources and with greater solidarity to possible supply disruptions. the results achieved give me reason to call on all colleagues to support the joint text you have submitted to the council for a second reading.
madam president, i was the shadow rapporteur on the gas market for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i believe you will all agree that the greatest achievement of the third energy package is the protection of european consumers and citizens. for the first time, such texts were clearly recorded. i would like to draw particular attention to the definition of energy poverty and the impossibility of interrupting supplies, the possibility of switching suppliers free of charge, and easily accessible and transparent contracts. the future of this legislation, however, lies in even greater guarantees for consumers, protective measures for vulnerable people, and greater transparency and comparability of contractual relations. the next major issue for us meps will be on prices and measures to regulate them in the face of their ever-increasing rise. i believe this legislation will continue to move in that direction.
member of the commission. − madam president, i promise that this will be very short. i am satisfied with the package that is to be adopted. there is no ideal legislation. this is legislation that is being adopted by debate and through compromises. we started very much divided, but at the end of the day the council adopted the proposal practically with unanimity. in parliament’s committee on industry, energy and research there was a huge majority in favour of this compromise. that means that we have got it right. i know that now there is a lot of work to do in terms of implementation, follow-up and the agency’s needs, but we really have provided the basic instruments for our citizens. thank you very much for the work done. we can be really proud of it.
rapporteur. − madam president, like my colleagues i would like to say that, although it is not perfect, the third energy package is a very good basis for developing our common market, especially in gas, and for enhancing gas security. for countries like mine, which is a small country in the european union, to reach a compromise on ownership unbundling is very important, because it gives us an assurance that we can still ensure our energy security within the context of the whole package of the enhanced rules, transparency, the third-country clause, and all the other components of the package that will give us the opportunity to put the issue of energy security at the forefront. the package also gives an assurance to consumers that they can pursue their rights, and it creates a better competitive framework for the development of the energy markets and for their efficient functioning. this package depends on implementation, as my colleague eluned morgan has just said, and i do not believe that the fourth package is the solution. rather, the solution is exact implementation and solidarity among member states in creating the market, especially by developing new initiatives for regional cooperation, especially for countries most vulnerable to energy supplies and to countries that, for the moment, are part of energy islands.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality has adopted a report on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the protocol on the position of the european community and its member states with regard to the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. − the european commission's 2007 discharge report shows progress, although we still need serious synchronisation of activities and control mechanisms to increase the efficiency of the use of funds, to reduce the number and burden of irregularities and to increase transparency and targeting, especially in gender budgeting. the commission's responsibility to cooperate with the member states and the institutions should not be neglected. cooperation and communication are important tools and we often see results of failures in this regard. without minimizing certain violations in the newest member states, bulgaria and romania, i consider it necessary to ensure equal treatment for all member states. a special cooperation mechanism applies to both parties and should not be made more difficult. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. i demand that these texts be withdrawn. this will allow the parties to focus on overcoming the problems that have arisen.
i would also like to stress the importance of the commission's proposal for a framework directive on nuclear safety. i believe that this document is a good basis for establishing binding standards in the european union on this subject and also for giving assurance to all countries, including those which do not use nuclear energy, that nuclear energy produced in the european union is safe. i would like to stress that i am satisfied with the amendments that have been adopted and that i have made in terms of specifying the scope of the directive, ensuring a regular exchange of best practice between member states and a clearer allocation of responsibility between the state, the licence holder and the regulatory authority. i would like to stress that this directive once again underlines the right of each country to choose its energy mix if it wishes to be nuclear energy, which is energy that saves carbon dioxide and is good for the environment.
in writing. after almost six years of delay, the eu is now close to adopting a nuclear safety directive, an important policy document for nuclear energy in europe, which produces almost a third of the eu's electricity. member states have the exclusive right to decide for themselves whether to rely on nuclear energy. for them, as well as for non-nuclear energy countries, it is equally important to apply the highest safety standards in nuclear energy. i welcome the inclusion of the iaea safety principles as an annex to the directive. the best developments in nuclear safety standards thus become an integral part of european legislation and therefore binding on member states. the absence of common nuclear safety requirements in the eu has allowed some eu accession countries in the recent past to be forced to adopt nuclear policy decisions that are now inconsistent with the eu's objectives of limiting climate change and ensuring energy security. today, with a number of new nuclear power plants in the eu under construction or planned, the timely adoption of the nuclear safety directive is not only justified but also mandatory for the sake of safety and public peace of mind.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i believe that the protection of eu citizens is a top priority in this institution and citizens should know that. the establishment of the information network will allow, through the exchange of experience and good practices between eu countries, to achieve better understanding and higher standards in the protection of critical sites and activities that are of vital importance to countries and populations. i would like to stress that as shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de i am satisfied with the unanimous acceptance by all the political groups in parliament of the requirement that member states must participate in the new system, which guarantees the european relevance of this initiative. i also express my confidence that, after the first few years of successful operation of the system, the commission will take the necessary steps to build on it with additional functions for the rapid dissemination of alarming information on emerging threats to critical infrastructure in any eu region. this will complete a comprehensive information system that will give greater security and protection to european citizens.
in writing. current technologies and methods for urban transport of passengers and freight are at their limit and even smaller european cities are already choking on vehicle traffic. to improve the quality of life of our citizens, we need to accelerate the development and deployment of research and innovation in urban mobility. surely pouring money into simply expanding existing infrastructure will not help us overcome the growing crisis. we need to find new, smart solutions not only to today's but also to tomorrow's problems in urban transport. i therefore welcome the proposal to develop a new generation of the civitas programme, considering that the focus should be on the development of the next generation of information technologies for traffic management. the integrated planning approach has been relatively widely used in the development of urban planning in the larger cities of europe in recent years. the creation and funding of a permanent european structure to collect and disseminate good practice in the field and to promote dialogue between stakeholders from all over the european union will be a new, important step towards promoting sustainable urban mobility.
in writing. - mr president, i voted to discharge the commission for the implementation of the eu budget for 2007. at the same time, i should like to point out that i voted against texts in this report which were aimed at introducing the drafting of quarterly reports on the management of the structural funds and the cohesion fund, especially in the case of bulgaria and romania. i voted against because i am convinced that in cases where we require more control, it is good to do so simultaneously and to the same extent for all the member states, not just for one or two of them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the european union, and to extend it to cover the whole of the eu. as the report states, these losses and freezes were mainly due to irregularities in the auctions and eligibility of expenditure, the disposal of fixed assets, the lack of administrative capacity, etc. in conclusion, i would like to share with you my concern that the bulgarian citizens are deprived of the instruments of european solidarity and they are paying undeservedly for the mistakes of their governments.
mr president, i am pleased to be involved in the discussion of this document, which underlines that the best future for all countries in the region lies in their full integration as member states of the european union. the balkans have always been and will always be a european region. the promotion of cooperation at regional level should also be one of the main policies of the european union. i would like to draw attention here to the need to support interparliamentary dialogue at regional level as an important element in the process of european integration. the union member states of the region can play an important role in this process. support for the work of the regional cooperation centre is particularly important, as it successfully continues and consolidates the policies and principles of the stability pact for the transformation of the western balkans region into an area of security and stability. i support the abolition of the visa requirement as an important step towards the integration of the western balkans.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs rumiana jelev, for her two excellent reports. i think my comments on the reports and their conclusions can be rather brief. at the first informal ministerial meeting on disability issues, held on 11 june 2007, the council adopted a clear position in support of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. at that meeting, the council endorsed the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities as a fundamental step towards the promotion, protection and enjoyment of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons with disabilities. at the same time, ministers committed to further develop relevant policies to ensure full implementation of the convention and called on the commission to ensure that the new priorities of the european disability action plan contribute to the effective implementation of the un convention. in its resolution on the follow-up to the european year of equal opportunities for all 2007, adopted in december 2007, the council invited the commission and the member states to continue the process of signing, concluding and ratifying the un convention, in accordance with their respective competences. on 10 march 2008, the council adopted a resolution on the status of persons with disabilities in the european union. in this resolution, the council calls on the member states and the commission to ensure, in accordance with their respective competences, that persons with disabilities fully enjoy their human rights. this includes ratification, conclusion and implementation of the un convention, including common european solutions, within a coherent and coordinated approach to its implementation. the council then received from the commission a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european community of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the review of this proposal started at the end of last year and is still being discussed by the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as your report has emphasised, the commission's proposal raises a number of important questions relating to powers, and these questions require further discussion in the council. the presidency has, however, undertaken to try to conclude the negotiations as soon as possible so that the community can conclude the convention as soon as possible. i thank parliament for its interest in this matter and the presidency will keep you informed of the progress of the negotiations taking place in the council.
member of the commission. − mr president, the disability convention is the first human rights convention that the european community has signed alongside its member states. this was a necessary step to allow the full implementation of the convention in the european union, including in policy areas within the responsibility of the european community. as both the convention and its optional protocol came into force one year ago, on 3 may 2008, a swift conclusion by both the member states and the community is now a priority. indeed, seven member states have already done so. i want to express my gratitude to parliament and in particular to the rapporteur, ms jeleva, for their support for the european community’s conclusion of this un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and its optional protocol. i am delighted to see that parliament can endorse both proposals. since the convention falls within the shared competence of the community and the member states and is also binding on the eu institutions, i am glad to see that they are ready to work together to ensure this convention is implemented properly. the goals of the convention are very important overall to facilitate a positive impact on the lives of our fellow citizens with disabilities, to improve the consistency of the legal interpretation of certain provisions within the community’s competence, and to ensure uniform minimum protection of the rights of persons with disabilities across the european union with regard to the obligations stemming from the convention. we need to work together to protect the human rights of persons with disabilities, and an effective implementation of the un convention will do just that and meet that objective. i count on us working together towards this common goal.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, as we discuss the european parliament's reports on the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the optional protocol thereto, and the statement on these two documents by the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to recall that people with disabilities represent more than 10% of the population of the european union and the world. according to the world health organization, this rate is even increasing because of the increase in the world's total population, advances in medicine, and the global trend toward aging. the un convention we are discussing today is the first in the field of human rights to be open to accession and formal approval by the european community. this makes it a unique first step in the work of the european parliament. the purpose of the convention is to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment by persons with disabilities of all rights and fundamental freedoms, while respecting their human dignity. i am very pleased that during the discussions in the committee on employment and social affairs we worked in a spirit of good faith and cooperation. i think it is very important that my colleagues in the committee and i have decided to say more than a laconic 'yes' in support of the reports on the convention and the protocol and have prepared a motion for a resolution. ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has always consistently supported all the community's efforts to draw up, implement and enforce legislation relating to equal opportunities and the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities. when it comes to people with disabilities, our political differences give way to the ultimate goal of providing a higher quality of life and work. of course, there are different views on how we can achieve this, but with its almost unanimous decision - just 1 vote away from a 'yes' - the committee on employment and social affairs has shown that differences are to be overcome on the way to sensible, long-term and sustainable solutions. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that our decisions - the decisions of the european parliament - are of very great importance to disabled people in the european union. i would point out here that the competences resulting from the application of the convention and the optional protocol are shared between the community and the member states. the entry into force of the optional protocol is important in view of the possibility provided for individuals or groups of persons to report violations of their rights under the convention to the un committee on persons with disabilities. it is important to emphasise that this will happen after the national legal remedies have been exhausted. as stated in the report on the optional protocol, we will require the european commission and the member states to inform us every 3 years about its implementation according to their respective areas of competence. i think that as the only european institution whose members are directly elected by the citizens of the union, the european parliament has the right and, above all, the responsibility to respect the rights of all its citizens. i would like to emphasise that when we started working on the documents at the end of 2008, only four member states - austria, spain, slovenia and hungary - had ratified the convention and the optional protocol, and since then three more - sweden, germany and italy - have done so. i believe that with today's debate and, i hope, with our positive vote tomorrow, we are achieving two objectives at once: we are approving the commission's proposals for council decisions and we are giving a positive and encouraging signal to the member states to continue the process of ratification and/or accession. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have taken part in the work on the reports and the motion for a resolution. i also thank my colleagues from the european commission for the good work they have done together and the representatives of the organisations of disabled people for the proposals they have made.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can all agree that although europe has made a huge step forward in the past years and decades in the fight against discrimination against people with disabilities, we are far from satisfied. today and every day, this month, this week, this day, thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens of the european union with disabilities are discriminated against. they are discriminated against in the labour market, they are discriminated against in services, they are discriminated against in transport, they are discriminated against in the poor access to public services and they are even very often discriminated against in access to some basic public services such as all levels of education. i believe we can agree that the fundamental danger we face in this area is the threat of social exclusion of our fellow citizens with disabilities. to do this, we need a whole range of legislative acts that prevent discrimination, but at the same time a functioning social services system as a basic tool that not only prevents social exclusion but leads to social inclusion. the huge problem affecting our citizens with disabilities is, of course, the significantly higher unemployment rate. we all know that, in the current economic crisis in which the european union finds itself, it is our disabled fellow citizens who are paying the most for the worsening of the situation on the labour market. there are worse job opportunities for them than in times of prosperity. very often, they add to this a lower level of qualification and education than a healthy part of the population, which of course has a very negative impact on their chances of integration into the labour market. they very often face a very poor access to education, to standard schools and educational institutions, as mrs schroedter rightly pointed out. i must also say that we are fully aware of the multiple discrimination faced by many citizens with disabilities, as pointed out by mrs breyer. i would like to remind you that the convention we are discussing contains a specific article on women, and that this multilateral discrimination is being commemorated. of course, at this point, we have to honor the seven countries that have ratified the convention. it also sets an example for other countries that have not yet followed this procedure. the clear call by mrs lynne to speed up the ratification process is important, but on the other hand we must respect that ratification has its rules, that these rules must be respected, that these rules are often very different in the various member states and that they must be respected. i would also like to express my appreciation for the statements made here, for example by mrs plumb, who pointed out the important role of civil partners in developing and implementing policies for our disabled citizens and in preventing discrimination against them, in preventing their social exclusion and in seeking to integrate them socially and socially. i would just like to recall that the council has paid great attention to this and that the presidency also attaches great importance to the participation of partners from the civil sector. we also invited all representatives of disabled people to take part in the events on this subject, in line with our motto 'a barrier-free europe'. a number of events organised by organisations of people with disabilities were held under the auspices of the presidency. i would like to recall the council of the european disability forum held in prague from 28 february to 1 march 2009. the international conference entitled 'europe without barriers' was also held this week, organised by the czech national council for persons with disabilities, under the auspices of the presidency and as part of the presidency events. and i can confirm from my participation that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities was one of the highlights of the conference agenda and the presidency intends to continue to be very active in this regard, including in terms of regular contact with civil society representatives at the european level. i would also like to conclude by highlighting the convergence of the european disability action plan and the un convention, as well as the results achieved in the implementation of this action plan, which places particular emphasis on dignity, fundamental rights, protection against discrimination, justice and social cohesion. it is now widely recognised that disability inclusion is the key to disability advocacy. the disability action plan encouraged and supported access to social services while enhancing the accessibility of goods and services. i am convinced that the european union will therefore continue to take the positive steps it intends to take towards the full social inclusion and integration of its citizens with disabilities.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like once again to thank all who participated in the interesting debate, especially the rapporteur, mrs jeleva – especially for the important resolution that will be adopted in plenary tomorrow. i would also like to thank the council for its reassurance that the czech presidency will strive towards a quick conclusion to the ratification and the whole process. i would also like to thank parliament for your recent support of the commission’s proposal for a horizontal anti-discrimination directive. the directive, if adopted by the council – where unanimity is needed – will further consolidate the rights of people with disabilities at european level, which i trust is our common goal, both in the council and in parliament – certainly it is in the commission.
the rapporteur. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your participation and for your opinions. i would like to believe that we can put today's debate in a broader context, namely to relate to the fact that the un economic and social council last year decided that the main theme of the review and policy measures for 2009-2010 will be social inclusion. a special place in this policy cycle for social inclusion is given to the world programme of action concerning disabled people. i also believe that today's debate will give an impetus to those member states which have not yet ratified the convention and/or the optional protocol to do so in the foreseeable future. i am convinced, and here i would like to agree with the council, that by voting on the reports we are indeed taking a step in the right direction. the european parliament must bear its responsibility for improving the situation of people with disabilities. we really need, as was stressed in this debate, to work hard and exercise whatever controls we can so that the legislation we have made is actually implemented, rather than taking into account a good legislative base and poor implementation. i thank again all my colleagues from the various political groups for their support, my colleagues from the european commission and the colleagues from the ngos with whom we have worked together throughout the process.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, i regret that mr visser did not stay to hear the debate on the subject to the end, but i would first like to say that we support the commission's proposals in this regard. of course, a comprehensive vat reform would do a much better job, but as this is not possible at the moment, your proposal should solve some of the problems that member states face in their desire to curb vat fraud. we believe that it is extremely important, especially in a crisis situation, to guarantee vat revenues, because member states are still trying to invest billions in support of the economy, and in this sense all the possibilities to limit the possibilities of fraud should be supported by parliament. i would also like to say that we generally support the proposals made by mr visser in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. perhaps this gives a little more certainty to businesses than the commission's initial proposals. at the same time, however, we consider that the proposed timeframe of two years between the delivery of the goods and the receipt of the notification referred to in paragraph 2 of article 1 (c) is too short and, in our view, creates additional opportunities to limit the scope and results of the european commission's proposal. that's why the pse group is proposing that this period be 5 years, which we think is short enough for business, but also long enough for the tax administration to do its job. moreover, the introduction of this point (c) is not linked to proposals on the date and manner of its entry into force, which we believe will create additional problems for the member states. we hope that the proposal will be supported and will bear fruit.
on behalf of the alde group. mr commissioner, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the economic and financial crisis, we need to support the european union in order to have a better functioning and efficient tax system. the commission's proposal to amend the savings tax directive in other member states presents an opportunity to improve the existing regime and we in the economic and financial affairs committee of the european parliament support extending its application to new financial instruments and geographical areas. the liberal democrats for europe have proposed including territories with particularly favourable tax regimes such as the us states of delaware and nevada, as well as ensuring equal treatment between member states and reducing the administrative burden in the implementation of the directive. the main debate, however, commissioner, remains whether to abolish the system of taxation at source in favour of automatic exchange of information. from a liberal point of view, the question is how to increase tax collection, and the application of information exchange alone will not lead, as research has already shown, to the avoidance of tax abuse or to an increase in tax collection, but will only deprive some member states of a competitive advantage. the withholding tax is not only more efficient but also provides more transparency in the collection. i strongly believe that the member states should retain their autonomy in the choice of taxation system. alde has proposed a comparative study of the advantages of the two systems and we hope that by december 2010 we will still have results from the commission. we also hope that these results will also form the basis for future commission proposals to change the taxation system for savings within the european union. tomorrow we vote on another important piece of legislation on vat fraud on imports. the main objective of this directive is to ensure the rapid exchange of sufficient and high quality information and five years is too long a time for business, as well as the introduction of a mechanism for shared responsibility. however, in protecting the tax revenues of all member states, it is important to ensure that joint liability only arises where there are serious breaches in the information submitted or unjustified delays. otherwise, we risk creating an additional and unfavourable burden on the business. i hope we can vote yes on the reports tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on crossborder payments within the community, which aims to replace the current regulation, is linked to the emergence of an integrated european payments market. the proposal also aims to increase the protection of consumers' interests and rights and to reduce the burden of reporting for statistical purposes. article 5 on balance of payments and article 12 on the review clause are the subject of a compromise which our rapporteur margarita starkevičiūtė is seeking and which is supported by bulgaria. the compromise is an opportunity for timely and adequate evaluation. the current global financial crisis has highlighted the need for relevant statistics. bulgaria is in favour of abolishing settlement-based obligations for payment service providers for balance of payments statistical reporting purposes below the threshold of eur 50 000. bulgaria supports the abolition of article 5 (2), expressing reservations in the context of the potential loss of information and deterioration of the quality of statistical data for balance of payments purposes, as well as the need for technological time to implement the transition to the direct reporting system.
author. − mr president, the international community has been absolutely appalled at the information that we have all heard about the law that is being drafted in afghanistan on the status of shia women. it is appalling to believe that, at the beginning of the 21st century, a country that wants to be a democracy and wants to abide by its international commitments can have a law that limits the rights of women. however, i believe that in our debate, and in everything that we do with afghanistan, we have to be very careful how we approach things, because afghanistan is a country that has come through a violent, repressive religious dictatorship; it has endured years and decades of civil war; it is a society in which people, more than buildings, have been hurt and destroyed. we have to be very consistent in our messages, but we also have to be very careful in how we phrase those messages. we should call on the afghan authorities to take a look at the law, to revise it and make sure that it is entirely in line with the international commitments of that country, as well as its constitution. we should not use this as an election opportunity here for us in europe but as something that we can pass on to our colleagues and friends in afghanistan to make sure that they can fulfil the obligations that they have voluntarily undertaken themselves. in this case we have to assist president karzai and the government of afghanistan in revisiting this law and making sure that it is in line with international commitments and the constitution. it is part of our dialogue, and we have to be absolutely firm that no measures should be adopted that impede the rights of women. i agree entirely with what ana maria gomes has just said. but let us be very careful because, when we deal with a society that has been so traumatised, it is far more important how our messages are heard there than how our messages are understood here. let us be very consistent in that and let us call on the commission and the council to pass on this message via all of our assistance programmes to the government and authorities in afghanistan.
in recent months, we've witnessed several cases of somali pirates hijacking ships for ransom. there is a danger that this practice could become a well-organised form of maritime terrorism and a lucrative business, not without the intermediary of consultancy firms and law firms. the hostage-friendly outcome in such cases should not be welcomed, as the shipowners and parties affected pay a high price and piracy becomes a threat to the security of shipping worldwide. this phenomenon has also begun to affect more and more european citizens. currently, 16 bulgarians are being held captive on the malaspina castle. the surveillance of the negotiations with the pirates cannot be considered as an adequate policy. we need more clarity on what commitments the european union makes in such cases. the measures taken by the various institutions so far are important but clearly insufficient, which is why i am calling for urgent action at the highest level to free the hostages, to bring this shameful 21st century phenomenon under control.
it is very important to consider the amendments to the maternity directive now, to show responsibility not only for solving some social problems in society, but also to dedicate this responsibility to the future of europe. with mrs estrela's report, we are introducing a new philosophy into the care of mothers, pregnant women, infants and parents in general. it is especially important that fathers be involved in the rearing of their children. that's what's gonna make the family stronger. let us thus restore the balance that is also important in the training of children from their earliest years. this is in addition to all our other decisions relating to the european union's anti-discrimination policies. it is essential to give pregnant women security and safety, both in the family and at work, to give them equal access to jobs, to provide flexible working hours, to provide specific health services, to enforce full implementation of legislation. it is unacceptable to refuse to assign a job to a woman who is pregnant and on maternity leave. we must ensure that women who are on maternity leave can automatically have all the more favourable changes that have occurred during the period in which they are on leave. in my country, bulgaria, we have a very favorable maternity law, long paid maternity leave and other options that allow women to choose. the combination of the right to choose and the reconciliation of family obligations and professional fulfilment is a good practice that can be recommended to all member states. in fact, it is part of the integrated policy on equal treatment for women and men.
on behalf of the alde group. at its last session for this term, parliament must adopt the directive on transport workers' working time. as rapporteur for the liberals, i think it is irresponsible to support the rejection of the commission's text in its entirety, as proposed. liberals support and stand firmly behind the need for tens of thousands of self-employed transport workers to maintain their competitive edge and the meaning of being self-employed. the situation is alarming. the directive currently in force takes away a fundamental principle of the free market, namely entrepreneurship, and its support. it is unacceptable to equate contract workers with those who are self-employed. self-employed persons, unlike employees, work on the basis not of a fixed number of hours but of the loads they serve and the number and type of transport. including them in the new directive will really kill their entrepreneurial spirit. legislation to regulate the working hours of self-employed workers would be a dangerous and unjustified precedent. such regulation does not exist in any other sector. such a decision would have a negative impact on the european economy. the definition of night work is also of great practical importance. today, member states can set their own night time and thus optimise working hours for passenger and freight transport according to the varying daylight. as you know, the night time in finland is different from that in italy and flexibility helps to reduce congestion at peak times as well as to alleviate most of the harmful emissions from traffic. finally, i would like to add that the liberals, supported by the european people's party and many other colleagues, wish to continue the debate on the main elements of the directive. in particular, we support the flexible and pragmatic position which was endorsed by the council and proposed by the european commission to exclude self-employed people from the directive. i appeal to your affirmative vote.
it is clear that, in legislative and executive terms, the european commission and the european parliament are indebted to the european citizens who are ultimately the victims of the pollution that is taking place in our marine areas. i am looking at things in terms of existing regulations and their application in the protection of the environment, the seas and the associated coasts. i would say again that regulation and the amendment of the directives are necessary, but still not enough. the most important of all is the effectiveness of the implementation. it cannot be accepted as normal that dumping your waste in the sea area and paying a fine costs less than complying with the directive. so the first thing to do is to pay attention to monitoring. today, technological possibilities are sufficiently large to make the protection of waters and coasts a long-term policy for the benefit and protection of all flora and fauna. i support the proposal to amend the directive, considering it particularly important to create a specialised body within the maritime safety agency to ensure targeted action on its implementation.
in writing. − the directive on the organisation of working time for transport workers, rejected by the european socialists, greens and the far left, makes self-employed transport workers less competitive. the irresponsible rejection of the commission's proposal takes away the meaning of self-employed being self-employed. they are no longer free to determine for themselves the length of their working hours. such regulation does not exist in any other sector. this decision will invariably have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the european economy. unlike employees, self-employed transport workers are not subject to a contract of employment and are free to determine their customers and their loads, and their earnings are not dependent on their working hours, as is the case with employees, but on the number and type of transport. the new directive's determination of their working hours limits their 'entrepreneurial' freedom. the vote today has removed the possibility for member states to define their own night time time and thus optimise working hours for passenger or freight transport according to the varying daylight hours in the different member states. the rejection of the directive jeopardises competition. small carriers and sole traders will suffer the most. they will apply the requirements applicable to employees of the large transport companies, which will inevitably jeopardise their market position.
i share the concern about the democratic process in turkey in relation to the recent arrests that have been made following the local elections. however, i don't think that politicians who have close ties to organizations that use violent methods to achieve their goals should be supported. violence has never been a permissible and justified means of asserting rights and freedoms. i believe that kurds should have more cultural and educational rights and i highly appreciate the ongoing reforms, including the opening of a 24-hour kurdish-language television channel. but rights and freedoms, my dear colleagues, are not won by violence, but by political, peaceful means, through dialogue and mutual respect. our sincere support for the reforms in turkey will therefore help to promote the union's fundamental values, one of the most important of which is respect for ethno-religious differences and otherness. i am convinced that a clear prospect of accession to the european union will accelerate respect for human rights and reforms in turkey.
the rapporteur. − today we are starting an important debate in the european parliament on providing additional funds from the european budget to rural areas in the community to cope with the consequences of the economic crisis. it should be noted that €1.20 billion will support the european union's agricultural sector at a difficult time. i believe that farmers and community residents will read this important message to provide a financial resource for additional support. the amount each country will receive is intended to support the development of broadband internet and to meet the new challenges identified in the 2008 regular review of the common agricultural policy. i believe that investments in internet infrastructure, in restructuring the dairy sector, in renewable energy, in conserving biodiversity and water resources are key to solving a large percentage of the problems in these regions and creating alternatives for the people living there. in my report i propose adding another eur 250 million to the rural development budget line to the budget of the funds for 2009. with this change, the total available for 2009 would be close to eur 850 million. in view of the need to respond quickly to the current economic crisis, it would be desirable to make the payments originally planned for 2010 and 2011 available in 2009. i would like to emphasize the possibility of allocating funds between member states according to their specific needs. this flexibility will allow individual countries to use the financial resource according to the needs of farmers and people living in rural areas. in view of the limited lending in the context of the financial crisis and the slow absorption of rural development programmes, i believe that it is a good opportunity to channel part of this resource to loan and credit guarantee funds. so we can actually help people who want to do a project, but don't have the necessary start-up capital. it is important that member states respect the deadlines and add to their rural development programmes additional activities to absorb these funds. the faster the money reaches the farmers, the faster it reaches the regions, the greater the benefit of this financial assistance. another important condition for successful mobilisation of funds is that each country provides rapid, timely and accessible information to regional and local authorities and potential beneficiaries on new project opportunities under the revised rural development programmes. i would like to emphasise that i had the pleasure of working on a report which demonstrates the active attitude and the concern of the european institutions for the future of the agricultural sector and rural areas in the community. i have always thought that aid is most valuable when it comes at a time when people need it most, and today rural areas need more funds for development and modernisation. it is the only way to stop migration, to protect nature and to create jobs and new jobs. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee on agriculture who contributed to the report, and the representatives of the european commission and the council for the good work they have done together. and thank you to the industry organizations for the suggestions they've made. i call on you to support the report and thus give a new impetus to the development of rural regions in the european union.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. − as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to express my satisfaction with the final version of the european energy recovery programme. parliament took a strong stance during the negotiations with the council and achieved the best possible outcome for european citizens. the energy recovery programme is very important for the future of our european economies. the current economic and financial crisis is putting at risk various energy security programmes, which are detrimental to our future economic growth and success. as a result, the right approach is to provide additional financial incentives for energy projects that help to rebuild our economy, promote security of energy supply and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. this new programme effectively strengthens the energy security of my country bulgaria by providing funding for the nabucco gas pipeline and connecting us to the infrastructure networks of greece and romania. that way, we'll be less vulnerable to crises like last winter. ladies and gentlemen, our european economies and our infrastructure depend on good access to energy. in this context, the european energy recovery programme paves the way towards a more efficient and effective energy infrastructure in europe. i would therefore like to stress once again the need for a common energy policy for the european union. only together can we be more successful and provide citizens with the energy security they deserve. i would like to conclude by congratulating the rapporteur on her good work.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr maldeikis, and to stress the importance of projects relating to energy security. they will create a real condition for greater solidarity between member states by diversifying the sources of gas supply and the suppliers themselves. i would like to point out that following the negotiations, my country, which was the most affected by the energy crisis at the beginning of the year, has received some resources, interconnections with greece and turkey, and the resources provided for nabucco and for the reverse gas supply will contribute to security in south-eastern europe. i believe that these steps by the commission and these proposals are only the beginning of the creation of an energy security policy. i expect a strategy to improve the gas supply directive and a draft community energy policy to be proposed in the near future.
member of the commission. − madam president, i see broad support for our proposal and i think it is very important to remember where we were at the beginning of this parliament. we have more or less 27 national energy policies and 27 markets with different states of liberalisation. cooperation between member states on energy issues has been rather complicated. we provided for the very important common drivers, namely the energy and climate change package and strengthening the european dimension of the european internal energy market. but the issue of where the money comes from was always there and until now we really have not dedicated substantial sums of money to energy. due to the financial crisis we are clearly facing delays in a lot of energy- and capital-intensive projects. additionally, the gas crisis at the beginning of the year again reminded us how vulnerable europe is with regard to its energy supplies and how badly we are interconnected, making it hard to use the scale and scope of the european union. the lion’s share of this package actually goes to this much needed interconnection. mr paparizov mentioned bulgaria. if bulgaria were to have three additional interconnections there would be less suffering in bulgaria, and it does not cost a lot of money. the question is why it was not developed. there are many factors. interconnection is not just developed by one member state: you need at least two for this. you also need companies to deal with this. this package also actually provides for political drivers. the baltic states talked a lot about cooperation and interconnections with the nordic market but, until the formulation of this package, we had somehow stopped short of real development on baltic interconnection. a recent meeting of baltic prime ministers and the decisions taken there are so vitally important that the baltic countries will no longer be an energy island. i believe the package provides exactly what the parliament is looking for to achieve three goals: security of supply, sustainability and eu competitiveness. so i would ask the members of this house to support this proposal, because it really is a significant change in european energy policy.
member of the commission. − madam president, i have listened carefully to the many positive, constructive remarks in the discussion here today. first of all, as some of you have said, we have to make it very clear that we will not be facing a situation where there will be absolutely no margin in the agricultural budget. we have a surplus because we have not had extraordinary expenditures – we have had very low costs on intervention and a very low cost on export refunds – and therefore we can manage this specific situation. but we are not leaving ourselves in a situation where there is no margin in the budget, because of the reasons mentioned by mr mulder. if we run into a situation with an animal disease, i can give a guarantee here today that we will not face a situation where there will be no money or insufficient money to solve these situations. it is also important to underline the solidarity in the distribution of the money. when you look at rural development, it is obvious that it has been redistributed in accordance with the money available in the rural development budget for the various member states, which de facto gives an advantage to the new member states. it is also important to see this injection of money as a one-off. in rural development it is simply going to cover the gap that we have in 2009 because the health check only enters into force on 1 january 2010 and therefore we found ourselves in a situation where we had no money to meet the new challenges. those challenges are quite in line with my dear colleague mr piebalgs’s ideas on renewable energy in the rural areas, using new technologies, using waste from the agricultural sector to contribute to the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, climate change, water, biodiversity and the challenges that we are now facing in the dairy sector in europe. finally, i completely agree that broadband is an advantage, not only for the agricultural sector but also for everybody. however, it is very important that we secure a link to the broadband network in rural areas to encourage small and medium-sized companies and to make it easier for people to move out and still use their computers, maybe one or two days a week, to take care of a job that might be in the city. so broadband is one of the issues for the future. in general, and in conclusion, i think there has been broad support and i hope that the investment we are going to make in this one-off payment will prove to be well spent.
the rapporteur. − thank you for the active position you have shared, for the recommendations and for the opinions you have expressed. i also thank commissioner boel for her active stance and for the support she continues to provide to farmers and rural residents. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr parish, and our coordinator, mr goepel, for their support and confidence. today, when we debate the future of the common agricultural policy, when we debate the possibility of adequate support, it is very important to say that the rural areas of the european union, which cover a large percentage of the territory of the community, are home to hundreds of millions of european citizens. they need our support. i am very pleased that all the reports we have been discussing in recent months here in the european parliament in strasbourg on the common agricultural policy are in this spirit and in this direction - to take account of the needs and possibilities of farmers and rural dwellers in all the member states. as the representative of bulgaria, one of the last countries to join, it is very important for me that the european institutions, and in particular the european parliament, send a very important message to the people of the community today, asking for support, for support that will be provided in difficult times of economic crisis. it is important that, in the run-up to the european elections, the european institutions show that they are close to the people, that they want to help in the difficult times we are living through today.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the european economic recovery support programme, involving an investment of almost eur 4 billion in energy projects, is timely and will have at least a two-way positive effect - reviving important sectors of the economy and solving major energy problems. the recent gas crisis has clearly shown that the security of energy supply is directly dependent on the interconnectedness of energy infrastructure between member states, without which it is not possible to provide assistance to the affected countries. without good links between the countries' systems, neither the creation of a single energy market nor the principle of solidarity in the eu is possible. the crisis in the economy requires quick decisions, and i support the proposed programme with the clear understanding that the best fairness in the selection of projects and the allocation of funds has not been achieved. i would like to emphasise in particular the support for the nabucco pipeline, because it is high time that the eu worked harder on this project if we do not want to miss the opportunities of using caspian gas for diversification of sources. i appeal to the committee to take much more active action, which in the shortest possible time will lead to real results and progress on nabucco. thank you for your attention.
in writing. - today, in voting on the electronic communications package, this parliament has shown that protecting consumers' rights is indeed a top priority. despite the fact that a relatively acceptable compromise had been reached in the second reading positions, the majority of parliament was not afraid to break the agreements and insisted strongly on its original position against the possibility of introducing restrictions on internet access, unless they were imposed by court decisions or threatened public security. yes, the whole package is going to conciliation and its implementation is being delayed, but the strong signal to the council and the commission after today's vote in parliament cannot be ignored. but let us admit that what happened today was due to the extremely serious activity of the people of the internet, who used all means to express their position to the meps and to ask them to protect their rights. such behavior can only be encouraged. let us therefore conclude that we must always listen to the voice of the people, so that eu legislation is also geared to their needs and ensures that the interests of european citizens are protected to the greatest possible extent.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen,the report on relations with national parliaments, according to elmar brok, gives an excellent overview of the tasks facing the european parliament following the final ratification of the treaty of lisbon by all the member states. the strengthening of the role of national parliaments in the legislative activity of the european union will not only speed up the transposition of european legislation into national law, but will also give union citizens another tool for participating in governance. the positive results achieved so far through cosac cooperation should be used and, on that basis, the involvement of parliamentarians from all member states should be strengthened. i think it is particularly important that we should be able to involve representatives of the parliaments of the countries that are candidates for membership of the european union in our joint work. in this way, we will facilitate and smooth their accession to the union. this is not a matter which is dealt with in the report or in the treaty of lisbon, but i believe that parliament will find the means to achieve this. finally, i would like to stress that national parliaments will need to strengthen their administrative capacity and ensure adequate funding in order to be able to fully exercise their new powers. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, in early august, an incredible spectacle took place in the republic of macedonia, which shook bulgarian public opinion. 23 year old macedonian citizen spaska mitrova, mother of a minor child who is still breastfeeding, was forcibly taken to the police station and from there to the notorious idrisovo prison, and her child was taken away. the police dragged her from the top floor to the bottom floor of the building because she refused to part with her child. the reason she got three months in prison was her inability to provide a bed for her ex-husband in the child's room. think about what that means. ms mitrova also obtained bulgarian citizenship earlier this year. this seems to be the main reason for the inhumane treatment, as it is not an isolated case. about two years ago i asked the current macedonian foreign minister: "why is there this hatred towards macedonians who have acquired bulgarian citizenship?" his answer was, "these are remnants of the past". since the efforts of the bulgarian president and government have been fruitless, i am asking commissioner olli rehn to look into this flagrant case in a country which wishes to open accession negotiations.
on behalf of the s-d group. madam president, madam president of the council, mr commissioner, we of course support the commission's proposals because they are a very important step for the countries of the region - the three countries of the region mentioned, who will be able to enjoy a visa-free regime from 1 january 2010. i myself belong to a country and a generation that greeted with great enthusiasm the abolition of the visa regime before our country became a member of the european union, and i would say that this is the first and most important sign that things are really going in the right direction and that one day the final destination of these countries is precisely the european union. at the same time, i cannot help but express my surprise at the commission's overly administrative approach to this matter, because, on the one hand, of course the technical issues are important - they must be respected, these countries must fulfil the requirements to be part of the european union - and thus to receive this visa-free regime, but the commission's decision to exclude albania and bosnia and herzegovina is in some ways incomprehensible to us. it does not reflect the sensitivity of this issue in the region. it underestimates the impact this would have on the future development of relations between the countries in the region and the attitude of ordinary citizens in this region to this decision of the european commission. we therefore believe that the european commission's decision should be revised to include albania and bosnia and herzegovina with a clear timetable for when these countries, subject to specific conditions, could become part of this visa-free regime. in this respect, the sensitivity of the population in kosovo is also very particular, and our question is when the european commission intends to start a visa dialogue with kosovo and whether it takes into account the consequences for the stability of kosovo in particular if this dialogue does not start as soon as possible.
madam president, we are all aware of the advantages and disadvantages of free movement, but let us consider another aspect - whether the three countries in question actually meet the criteria, the basic criteria, to obtain such privileges in the liberalisation of the regime. the bulgarian minority in serbia has been completely neglected and discriminated against for almost a century. and macedonia, since its creation, has practically been conducting a constant, consistent anti-bulgarian policy. the last thing macedonia did in this regard was to arrest the bulgarian citizen spaska mitrova and sentence her to an unprecedentedly harsh sentence. mitrova is a member of the bulgarian association ratko. this association was banned in macedonia and therefore macedonia was sentenced to pay a fine for human rights violations. it is unacceptable for bulgarian society to give concessions to parties that violate the rights of bulgarian citizens, i.e. citizens of the european union.
i would like to congratulate mr barrot on the european commission's position on visa liberalisation for the western balkans. as a former foreign minister, during whose time the visa regime for bulgaria was abolished, i know what a huge emotional effect it had on the citizens to lift the visas and overcome the humiliations. but at the same time, as a european politician, i cannot but agree with mrs doris pack and mrs bildt that true european solidarity is expressed in the provision of logistical assistance by the european union to meet the criteria, not in the departure from the criteria, because that is demoralizing for societies and irresponsible for governments. change should come as a reward for effort, not as a double standard. the societies in the western balkans need to get used to demanding that their governments do their job. they need to know that the visa regime is delayed not because of a capricious europe, but because of unfinished business. solidarity must be in response to taking responsibility. when there is a principled position, it will not matter what religion one professes or what ethnic background one is.
madam president, the commission is once again very optimistic, it has good news, but i do not understand and i do not see any good in seeing thousands of tonnes of milk poured out in protest against the policy pursued so far. the truth is that mr de castro and the other speakers are quite right that the commission and the council did not do enough during the health check to prevent this crisis. where are the council representatives to take a stand, by the way, since the council has the decisive voice in the case of any reforms? my eastern european colleagues and i in the committee on agriculture have warned repeatedly, calling for greater increases in quotas or their abolition, because our countries were the first to feel this crisis, being new to the european union systems. unfortunately, our voice has become the voice of the crying man in the desert and parliament is to blame in this respect. i am very sorry that we reformers who really want to see reforms in agricultural policy have been the bad prophets again. take your lessons for the future.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that the subject of energy and energy security is a subject which our parliament deals with quite frequently, especially after the situation at the beginning of this year when several countries in the european union were left with virtually no gas supplies. perhaps this was also a turning point in the attitude of the european commission and the member states in general to this important issue. today we are discussing not so much the technical issues and the details of energy development within the european union, but rather the external aspects of this energy security and the development of the european union in this area, because at the end of the day there are two sides to this question. and it's important because it affects every single citizen in the end. we have to be clear in discussing both 'nabucco', which is undoubtedly one of the most important priority projects in this area, and 'desertech', but we have to be clear that there are countries in the european union that are dependent not only on a single supplier, but are dependent on a single route. in this sense, i cannot accept the opposition of 'nabukov' to projects like 'south stream' and in some sense also 'north stream', which are projects that aim to bring gas from russia directly to a member state of the european union, so that the european union is not dependent on transit through countries that are unstable both politically and economically. in this sense, the european commission is right in saying that there is no opposition and that we should try to integrate all these projects into a common strategy, where i emphasize, of course, that nabucco has its important priority. we expect the commission to come forward with its proposal on increasing gas reserves within the european union, which is very important, and on developing a system of links between member states with higher capacity, which is a very important element in ensuring the security of both citizens and businesses within the european union. and of course we should not underestimate the issue of energy efficiency, which is also an important element of our policy to ensure the energy security of the european union.
in writing. unfortunately, the eu still lacks an effective policy on energy security. in recent years, the first steps have been taken in this respect, for which i would like to congratulate commissioner piebalgs in particular. bulgaria also has a certain contribution in this respect. however, these processes are still proceeding too slowly, and this is against the background of particular activity by russia and other competitors. a much clearer and more active policy is needed. it must include, among other elements, the following: - promoting the construction of all gas supply projects in europe that can be realistically financed on a market basis, including south and north stream; - promoting the construction of new capacity contributing to energy independence and reducing co2 emissions, including nuclear and renewable power plants; - the development of common rules for gas supply and transit; - an active policy towards the countries of central asia and the caucasus to secure the supply of caspian gas to europe.
mr president, commissioner, i was provoked by mr posselt's statement. i would like to stress that mrs de keyser's achievements in the field of human rights cannot be called into question in a discussion of this kind. she has proven to be a very important person in this parliament who is working on this issue. i do not think that we should under any circumstances question the commitment of the socialist and democratic group to the protection of human rights, because we did so when your group, mr posselt, tried to downplay the crimes at guantanamo and the treatment of american soldiers in iraq. with respect to human rights in russia, yes, there is a serious problem, we understand this problem and our resolution that we are proposing is sufficiently strong and sharp. we believe, however, that this parliament should concentrate on the issues and not every time make a long list of problems in relations with russia, when then they do not cause any effect there. in this connection, what we are doing is sending a delegation of the socialist group to moscow next week for talks, where this particular question will be raised. don't use emergencies like this one to protect human rights to make a long list of problems. that's not the point of today's discussion.
thank you, madam chairman. i'm going to speak in the language of one of the countries that was critically mentioned in this room today, namely bulgaria. if i were a bulgarian journalist, as i was, i would probably choose one of the two polar statements as the headline on the front page of any newspaper. one is that we should not turn this hall into a sounding board, much less a high court of appeal, and the other, which belongs to a speaker from socialist circles, advises us not to look at this hall as a museum where old things should not be moved. i think the truth lies somewhere in the middle and it is expressed in mr verhofstadt's proposal to work on a directive which should lead to a new, more modern, more democratic regulation of everything that has been discussed today in the area of media freedom and pluralism. however, in this directive, alongside the issues of pluralism and freedom, and the protection of journalists, a special place must be given, a particularly strong emphasis must be placed indeed on the decentralisation of media resources within national media systems.
i would like to welcome the decision of the council and the commission to grant an additional package of eur 280 million in milk subsidies in 2010. it is a clear signal to those who suffer the negative consequences of the crisis every day. such adequate responses, i urge, should not be one-off and contingent, but part of a targeted, long-term strategy to restore, stabilise and develop this sector in europe. it is therefore important to take into account the measures that each member state will take. i would point out that bulgaria can only accept partial amendments to regulation no 1234/2007. we insist that the draft expressly states that the management options for national milk quotas will be applied at the discretion of the member states. it is important to maintain the option of the existing scheme for the purchase and redistribution of milk quotas through the national reserve. we are not in a position to retain or collect input from producers as the bulgarian sector is in the process of modernisation. the commission notes that the bulgarian authorities have not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state.
the establishment and successful start of the european external action service will be a major political success in the european union on the way to achieving the goal of having a genuine common european security and foreign policy. europe could then really speak with one voice. the famous question-and-answer of henry kissinger, "please tell me the telephone number of europe", will be filled with meaning, because the telephone number of europe will be the telephone number of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs. at the moment, to know where europe stands, we need to know 27 telephone numbers in each of the member states. of course, in order for this office to be able to function, the future high representative must present his proposal for the establishment of the office here in our parliament, and i hope that it will take account of mr brok's report, and that there will also be a fair representation of all the member states, especially the new member states, on an equal footing.
on behalf of the s&d group. i was particularly pleased to hear mr orban talk about the european commission's intentions and approach to moldova. i think we should send very clear signals from the european institutions and the european union in general to moldova, and provide the necessary support, both financial, economic and, i stress, political, to the current government and its attempts to get moldova out of the difficult situation in which the country is. after two elections in a row, it's clear this government is looking to address the real problems of the people, something that seemed to have been left on the back burner in the previous months, let alone years. at the same time, we must bear in mind that the political situation in moldova, although it seems more stable, more positive, can now very quickly take a different direction. i mean, there's still complete uncertainty about whether moldova will be able to elect its president, and if it doesn't, obviously the country will go to new elections next year. this would be the most negative development, not just for the country as a country, but for the people of moldova. that is why we support the commission's efforts. our group and the parliament will, i believe, support the intentions of the european commission, but at the same time we must send a very clear signal to moldova, to the government and to the opposition at this time, that it is time for moldova to face up to the real problems of the people and that political games should not be at the expense of the citizens. i think such a strong signal would be heard in moldova and by the opposition right now. we also support the idea of an accelerated conclusion of an association agreement, which, as our colleague mr marinescu has mentioned, should include visa liberalisation, a serious issue which is creating tension between moldova and romania, and which should include the creation of a free trade area. we also believe that, in addition to the urgent measures proposed by the commission, we must make the eastern partnership launched in the middle of this year work and show real results in line with this european union policy.
madam president, mrs ferrero-waldner, mrs malmström, i cannot help but begin by saying that today, in this chamber, we have marked the 20th anniversary of the fall of the berlin wall. it was kind of like a special emphasis on what we've achieved all these years, that europe has been united by the changes of 20 years ago, and somehow there wasn't one country present that, if we're being honest, could have stopped those changes if it wanted to - the soviet union. i say this because, in my opinion, these changes were made possible precisely because the west began a policy of cooperation with the soviet union. without drawing parallels between the soviet union and today's russia, i would like to say that what i heard from mrs ferrero-waldner and mrs malmström is satisfactory, because it continues this policy of a pragmatic partnership with russia, stressing that there are issues on which the european union cannot succeed without the participation of russia. i would like to emphasise that of course we are concerned about the human rights situation, that amnesty international's assessment is that the situation is changing for the worse, that local elections have been rigged, that there are problems in the functioning of civil society organisations and we need to be united in our attitude towards russia. that's the conclusion we have to draw from the last few years. i would also like to say that one of the issues that is missing from our resolution that our parliament is proposing is the eastern partnership. i would like to see the eastern partnership given special attention at the forthcoming summit, because only then can we guarantee the success of this new policy of ours.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the european ombudsman on the record number of inquiries closed in 2008. i am confident that its new status will enable it to work with even greater efficiency and to respond quickly to citizens' complaints, thus strengthening mutual trust between the ombudsman and citizens. the ombudsman's priority must be to combat maladministration. it is a pity that we have made very little progress in this direction. nevertheless, i hope that with the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty of lisbon this will be strengthened. the second challenge will be to promote transparency within the european institutions. the third challenge for the coming years is to set up information campaigns so that our citizens are 100% aware of their rights. finally, the european network of national ombudsmen is an important platform for cooperation and exchange of good practice between different countries. bulgaria is an active participant in this network. it has not only acquired the necessary experience but has also increased the influence of this institution in recent years.
two years ago, europe took the initiative to be a leader in climate change. a legislative framework exists at european level and initiatives to develop the appropriate technology platform to enable the transition to a low-carbon economy need to be encouraged. the ambition of european leadership in the copenhagen negotiations is high. while the conditions for a final agreement are not yet in place, it is important to lay the foundations for a global consensus for a successful agreement. after participating in the parliamentary delegation to washington for the copenhagen negotiations, i found it necessary to discuss the economic effectiveness of climate action. only when all the parties to the negotiations are convinced that climate action will have a positive economic effect and that their economies will not be harmed will there be a global strategy.
president of the commission. − it is precisely by strict implementation of state aid rules, and this case is indeed a very interesting one for all of us – apart from those parties involved – because, as your question suggests, if every member state were to start competing with the others to see who can give more money to a company, we would have something that is bad for the member states, that is not good for consumers, and not good for taxpayers’ money. the guarantee i can give you is that the commission will be strict in the implementation of state aid rules, not because we are fundamentalists as regards the market or competition rules, but because we believe it is important to have a strict community approach and to have a level playing field for all companies and all member states – the big and the small, and the rich and the not-so-rich. that is the best way to ensure that we remain fair in our union.
president of the commission. − the answer is simple: yes. my intention is precisely to place non-discrimination issues – including, of course, issues of minorities – under the responsibility of the commissioner for fundamental rights.
president of the commission. − i am extremely proud and happy that catherine ashton has been designated as the first vice-president of the commission and high representative. it is an appointment that i very much supported and approved during the european council. of course we all know her well as someone who has both the political skill and the sense of direction to take on the demanding task of high representative and vice-president of the commission. we all know that this in an innovation. it will take time for all of us to learn how to use new arrangements to deliver the best results in terms of the european union’s increased role in the world. what is clear is that we will only achieve this by a real partnership between institutions. that is what the double head is designed to provide and what i am determined that the commission will offer: to have the best possible role in the world. of course i am extremely happy that she comes from britain – i think it is essential that britain remains at the centre of the european union – and also that she is a woman because, as you know, i have been very committed to the gender balance. so for all these reasons, and also because she is my colleague in the commission, i was – as you can imagine – extremely happy with that decision.
first, i would like to make a clarification to my esteemed colleague mr schulz. the bulgarian prime minister has never called for the banning of the bulgarian socialist party, and now for a question to mr. barroso. after 19 november, is it clear which foreign policy areas will remain in the commission's remit and which will be transferred to the new external action service, such as enlargement, trade, aid to developing countries?
dear mr. orban, on the bulgarian national television, over 60,000 bulgarian citizens are watching the news in turkish, their mother tongue. the broadcast of just five minutes of news in turkish on bulgaria's largest public media dates back to 2001, when the framework convention for the protection of national minorities was ratified. bulgaria thus so far considers that it respects the fundamental principle of the european union to protect the rights of minorities. i would like to draw your attention to a sociological study commissioned on november 5th to stop news in turkish. it is the result of provocation and nationalist pressure. the removal of this broadcast will deprive the largest minority in bulgaria of the right to information in their native language. this would mean intolerance and discrimination, which would violate the traditionally good coexistence between ethnic groups in bulgaria, and it is often given as an example in the balkans. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to answer how the commission monitors whether the right of minorities to communicate freely in their mother tongue and thus to participate fully in the social and political life of their country is respected through the public media.
the entry into force of the lisbon treaty should mean more transparency, more democracy and more efficiency in decision-making. but as we know, efficiency and democracy do not always go in the same direction, especially when there is a lack of coordination between institutions and a connection with citizens. there is no doubt that it is more democratic to find a suitable way for european citizens to be involved in the election of the president of the council, so that the european union can really become closer to its citizens. that, i think, will be the task of the future. i wish, however, good luck to the president-elect and the high representative of the council. as for the forthcoming council on 10 and 11 december, i have high hopes that it will adopt an ambitious programme on the institutional matters relating to the treaty of lisbon, i mean the european external action service. we need clarity on its composition, legal status and powers. in this sense, our parliament votes its position with mr brok's report. i also expect clarity from the council on the outcome of the implemented and proposed coordinated exit strategies, the economic and financial package and, in particular, i would like to know what the council's view is on the future european financial supervisory authority, which should in future reduce the risk of financial irregularities that have contributed mainly to the current crisis. another important point on which i expect to hear what the council's decision will be is the so-called integrated post-lisbon strategy, which we heard is expected to be adopted in march 2010. i hope that parliament will play an active part in this strategy. citizens must be at the heart of this strategy. the creation of jobs through investment, research, innovation, green technologies, eco-efficiency must be a factor for sustainable economic development, not the other way around. and for the stockholm strategy, i would also like the schengen area to be extended, of course, to bulgaria and romania in the near future. thank you, and good luck with the meeting.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the enlargement strategy paper and the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow show our strong commitment to the enlargement policy, which has proved to be one of the most successful of all eu policies and has benefitted both existing and new member states. enlargement has contributed to an unprecedented extension of the area of peace, security and prosperity in europe and now we prepare the further extension of this area to encompass in the years to come the western balkans, iceland and turkey. the alliance of socialists and democrats remains one of the most pro-enlargement forces in this parliament, while underlining that no compromises can be made with the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria and all the important benchmarks on which the preparedness of the candidates is evaluated. we hope to see the negotiations with croatia concluded as early as possible next year. we expect that the council will confirm the proposal of the european commission to start negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia next year so that the process can begin next year. we hope for new dynamics in the negotiation process with turkey including opening of the energy chapter. and we believe that the eu can keep up the momentum reinforcing the positive developments in all enlargement countries. the visa liberalisation is an excellent step to demonstrate to the people in the western balkans that they move in the right direction. let me also express the hope that the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will further increase the capacity of the eu to integrate new members, finalising the institutional reforms within the union.
i would first like to thank mr albertini for the work he has done on this difficult report, which concerns the strategy for enlarging the progress of many countries at different stages of their readiness to meet the criteria for membership of the european union. i understand and support mr albertini's wish to be as clear as possible and to send a positive signal about the enlargement of the western balkans, iceland and turkey to the european union. however, the number of amendments suggests that the subject is complex. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december, we must analyse and increase the integration capacity of our union. i would like to propose that the commission should carry out such an analysis of the european union's capacity for integration, because without the support of our citizens, the european union itself risks becoming an empty shell. i also support the view that a member country should not impose insurmountable conditions on an applicant country. all bilateral issues must be resolved in a spirit of european understanding, sharing common values, history and culture, and in this context i would like to call for a joint celebration of historical events and heroes from the balkan peninsula.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is not only because of the international day for the elimination violence against women that, when we consider a resolution on this matter, we should ask whether we have done enough. in europe today, one in four women is a victim of violence, domestic abuse, rape, sexual exploitation, or female genital mutilation. one of the most horrific examples of gender-based violence is when rape is used during war as a weapon, as is the case in congo. it is time for a comprehensive eu strategy leading to a concrete action plan aimed at fighting all forms of violence against women, including trafficking in women. madam commissioner, i would like to inform you that we have today voted, during the resolution on the stockholm programme, an amendment which requests a directive, a european action plan, on violence against women ensuring the prevention of violence, the protection of victims and the prosecution of perpetrators. i hope that this time our colleagues, you, and also the council, will not quote the subsidiarity principle, and that very soon we will see this directive and action plan in place. we have also brought this issue to the spanish presidency which is very much in favour of such a priority. i hope this will be priority for all of us.
i attended the fao meeting in rome myself. i've seen firsthand what this conference is all about. i think we need to get rid of a little bit of the hypocrisy that has been sweeping us, because with the cost of organizing a conference like this, where usually the result is just more promises, promises and promises, practically with that cost, maybe we should do a calculation exactly how many, as the speakers before me said, children would not have died today from hunger if those funds were not used only for fun stories. but here, the commissioner said there's a problem with the global food production capacity and before we go pulling the beam out of someone else's eye, let's see the beam in our own. my country, bulgaria, has scientifically proven to have the most fertile soil in the european union. 150 years ago, a bulgarian farmer with 19th century technology was able to feed the most densely populated areas of the ottoman empire in asia minor. today, however, agriculture in bulgaria is declining more and more. especially since bulgaria joined the european union. the quotas that the commission itself has imposed on bulgaria are holding back agricultural production and making land in bulgaria empty. only one farm in one of the 28 regions in bulgaria can produce the entire quota, for example, for tomatoes, which is allocated to bulgaria by the european commission. that's because some data from 10 years ago showed that official production was that much. but nobody's looking at how much actual production can be. within the european union itself, there is currently a slowdown in the process of food production, which could significantly improve the situation and really be a real measure to fight hunger. so as long as things are run by bureaucrats who only look at a piece of paper and don't care about anything else, then all we're left with are promises, but not actions.
first of all, i would like to congratulate both the president of the european court of auditors on the report they are presenting and the commissioner, mr kallas, on the obviously much improved work of the european commission in terms of spending european funds. i am a bulgarian and i can testify that the commission is extremely strict about funds and its actions are definitely having an effect. i would like to raise a point related to the fact that this is the last report of the european court of auditors on the existing treaties. the next report next year will be based on the lisbon treaty and there are a number of questions that have been raised and that have not yet been sufficiently clarified, including the budgetary formation and the procedures for spending the budget. i think that all the institutions, including the european parliament, together with the council, the european commission, and of course with the active participation of the european court of auditors, should do everything possible to find answers to these questions and to think in the same direction.
i voted against the resolution on the enlargement strategy because it makes very flattering statements about the progress turkey has made on the copenhagen criteria. such progress that i don't see. ladies and gentlemen, understand once and for all that turkey is a country which, less than 100 years ago, committed genocide against the peoples within it and the peoples recently liberated from it. and today it continues to commit genocide, and its people, its political class are proud of this action of this country. it sponsored and exported terrorism 20 years ago and continues to maintain close ties with terrorist organizations to this day. if we want to have a country in the european union that to this day boasts of genocide and sponsors terrorism, please come, accept it, but i'm against it.
in writing. mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution in support of tobacco-free environments because i believe it is essential to monitor progress towards the mainstreaming of tobacco-free environments in the european union and to facilitate the exchange of good practice and the coordination of policy to protect citizens from the risks of tobacco between member states. i also voted in favour of maintaining paragraph 9 which stipulates the end of direct subsidies linked to tobacco production by 2010 because of its implication on health issues. i also support my colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety who have pointed out that tobacco remains the number one cause of death and disease in the european union. thank you, mr president.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i voted to drop the explicit reference to 2010 in paragraph 9 of the proposed text of the resolution. in my country, tobacco production is a vital and defining industry for a large part of the population in regions where it is their only livelihood. one of them is the one i come from - blagoevgradsky. my country was among those eight largest tobacco producers in europe who a year ago asked for the duration of the current subsidies to be extended until 2013, despite the agreement that from 2010 the link between the amount of funds allocated and the volume of production should be broken. whenever i meet people who grow tobacco, one of the questions they ask most is, what will become of us? i can't promise them miracles, but we're working with our government to make sure they don't have to go without a choice, lose their main source of livelihood. colleagues, i can understand the arguments of those who fight against smoking. but i urge you not to confuse the fight against smoking with the risk of destroying tobacco production in europe. i urge you in times of economic crisis to remain cautious and wise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, one of the pillars of the single market. however, a number of member states still continue to impose restrictions on bulgarians and romanians in accessing their labour market. the arguments for maintaining the restrictions are against market logic, especially in times of crisis. 'the right to work in another country is a fundamental freedom for people in the european union', the employment commissioner said a while ago. and he's totally right. the maintenance of these restrictions for workers from the new member states creates market anomalies, is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the treaties and damages the image of the european union. i call on the european commission to coordinate with the member states to remove labour market restrictions for the new member states as soon as possible. i also ask for your support, fellow meps, to achieve a truly free market and equal rights for all european citizens.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for more than a year the european union has been taking various measures to combat the economic crisis. unlike the others, the microfinance facility is actually targeted at the most vulnerable groups in society who have difficulty entering and re-entering the labour market. solidarity, this fundamental principle of the union, requires that they receive special attention. the interest in this instrument, especially in bulgaria, and i suppose in other countries, is already high. through the media, i have been informing about it since the beginning of the debate and many of them are following its development. it is in the interest of the european institutions to show the citizens of the union that caring for those affected by the crisis and for the poorest is our immediate task. that way, people will be convinced that the institutions are effective and close to them. there are doubts whether the mechanism will be able to reach and serve all potential customers. the lack of credit is very large and contributes to the deepening of unemployment and eur 100 million will not be enough for all unemployed people facing the threat of social exclusion. however, not all of them have the skills to develop a business, nor can all be successfully trained. the key is to reach a solution as quickly as possible and to get microfinance working as quickly as possible so that those with ideas and enterprise can start now, when the crisis is still raging. the next year is all about fighting poverty and social exclusion, and let's take real steps, not delay the start of the recovery process.
madam president, the clause in the lisbon treaty on social policies requires the european union to take account of employment, social protection and the fight against social exclusion. the economic and financial crisis that has engulfed europe has led to a very serious human and social crisis with consequences that are impossible to assess at present. most efforts so far have been devoted to stabilising banks and preventing bankruptcies. in addition to measures to prevent unemployment, it is necessary to create a mechanism to revive economic growth in the european union. the mechanism applied by the commission aims to create an infrastructure which, in turn, gives citizens the opportunity to work. in practice, it is possible to move from an interim strategy to a long-term strategy. this mechanism is to be implemented as from january 2010. our discussion today and our decisions are being heard by many people in a situation of inequality and by many young people who want to enter the labour force and to whom we only have to reach out. i would like to stress the proposal already made to create a separate budget line of 50 million for this mechanism. this will enable some six thousand european entrepreneurs to start their own businesses, develop them and thus create new jobs. moreover, and most importantly, it is essential to improve access to resources and, above all, to better inform citizens about all the projects for which they can apply.
thank you, mr president, i voted for the report on financial measures. i think it is very appropriate at this moment and it will do very well if it is really applied, as it was adopted in my country bulgaria, because there is currently an extremely unfavourable climate for people with small businesses, with small opportunities, who have no chance of getting a loan from banks. all banks have policies that are not compatible with the idea of banking institutions. i have a feeling that banks are deliberately making up extra and extra terms just to keep them from lending, and without loans, there's no way to get the business going. however, when loans are granted, these companies are obliged to provide 100-150% guarantees, which leads to their easy bankruptcy. i therefore believe that the union, and parliament in this case, has made a very good point with this report and that this report will really bring about the development of the european economy and the economy of bulgaria.
thank you, mr chairman. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that a sensible policy to deal with the crisis in the countries of central and eastern europe must be based on the principle of a social market economy, unlike the one i have just mentioned. because only a strong economy that respects the freedom of private property, the rule of law and personal responsibility can guarantee the price of sustainable social policies that our society deserves. i strongly believe that our efforts and our responsibility should be focused on a few key pillars. first, the stability of public finances. a worrying number of member states have high levels of government debt. we have to be very careful and disciplined and aim for budget deficits not just at the 3% of gdp limit, but do everything possible to achieve balanced budgets. in the context of the stability and growth pact, there should be enhanced monitoring by the european commission and the council of macroeconomic imbalances in member states. secondly, we must support small and medium-sized enterprises. not only because they provide more than 65% of employment in europe, but also because they are the most flexible and have a dynamic potential for growth, especially in times of crisis. third, it is important to support the unemployed and the most vulnerable in our society and to ensure adequate investment in education, training, research. last but not least, the priority for the new member states is the enlargement of the euro area. i would like to ask for the support and thank my fellow meps and to call on the european commission and the member states to reconsider their position on this enlargement. we need your understanding and solidarity, especially in countries like bulgaria, where i come from, which has done a lot to meet the maastricht criteria, has one of the lowest budget deficits in the european union and a highly disciplined fiscal policy. colleagues, i believe it is important that we continue to work in a collective and coordinated effort to rebuild our economies and emerge from the crisis stronger than before.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam minister, madam commissioner, i cannot disagree with the assessment that belarus is a difficult partner for the european union. we cannot but agree with the way in which the commission and the council have approached this country over the past year. we believe that this approach - opening the door to belarus step by step, subject to the relevant decisions of the belarusian authorities - is the best way to gradually transform this country, or at least to bring it as close as possible to our idea of a democratic country. we would like to see a little more in the measures taken by the european commission and the council, a little more consideration for the citizens of belarus themselves, because that is the way to win them over to the cause that we are trying to impose there in dialogue with the belarusian authorities, namely democratization, opening up, holding free and democratic elections. something that is unthinkable in europe today could not happen in one european country. in this sense, our problems with regard to the eastern partnership are also there. you know that the european parliament does not have official relations with the parliament of belarus, because we believe that the belarusian deputies were not elected in fair and democratic elections and that this parliament cannot be our official partner. in this context, the forthcoming establishment of the eastern partnership parliamentary assembly is facing certain difficulties, but our approach will be to try to follow a common strategy with the commission and the council so that we are also ready to take appropriate steps towards belarus at parliamentary level if they, in turn, take their steps and fulfil the demands we have on them. in this sense, i call, as the european parliament, the european commission and the council work in unison, for the avoidance of unilateral actions such as those of prime minister berlusconi, which harm the common cause and give further impetus to lukashenka. this must be avoided.
mr president, when discussing the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and the good functioning of the internal market we have to look at the current situation in the health sector, for which the directive and its implementation may need to be further discussed. in addition to the full implementation of this directive, it is crucial to introduce further measures applying to mutual recognition, not only of diplomas, but of health professionals’ qualifications as well. the provision of health services requires appropriate linguistic skills, registration through national regulators and most importantly, the ability to deliver safe and high-quality care. i think there is a need for better sharing of information between member states regarding health professionals’ registration, for example through a common eu database. a competence assurance system is also a key element of safe health-care services provision, and we should think about common standards for the assessment of competences and skills. health professionals’ mobility is also a question of public health and public safety. on these grounds, the ecj has already approved additional national safeguards for the circulation of goods. there is also a rationale for such measures applying to the provision of health services, especially when new communication technologies allow controversial practices such as e-doctor consultations. we have to face the challenge of an ageing population, and this will put even more pressure on the european health workforce. while ensuring the mobility of health professionals, we must also be able to guarantee to all european citizens accessible health services, timely delivered with the highest quality standards. this is a responsibility for all of us. i hope that the european institutions and member states will consider it seriously, given the fact that some national health-care systems are almost drained of professionals and this will make it extremely difficult for us to provide basic health-care service.
member of the commission. − mr president, the questions put forward are very pertinent. they underline the importance you attach to cohesion policy as well as your dedication to keep the policy at the heart of european integration. as regards your question on multi-level governance, multi-level governance has been recognised as a fundamental mechanism in delivering eu policy priorities. the growing interdependence between different levels of government in the union was stressed by the consultation paper launched by the commission on the eu 2020 strategy. cohesion policy is a good example of multi-level governance. it offers a governance system which values and exploits local and regional knowledge, combines it with strategic direction from the community level, and coordinates interventions between levels of government. the strengths of multi-level governance were also stressed by the committee of the regions in its white paper of june 2009, where it called on the union to strengthen mechanisms of multi-level governance and pointed to the leverage effects generated by cohesion policy, which contributed to the implementation of other community policies as well. on your two questions concerning the eventual abandonment of objective 2 and the eligibility of all european regions, in the period 2007-2013 all regions are eligible for structural funds support. concerning the period post-2013, there is no official commission position at this stage. as regards your third question on the weakening of the principle of additionality, additionality is one of the basic principles of cohesion policy. it ensures that the structural funds do not replace the public or equivalent structural expenditure by a member state. thus it guarantees the genuine economic impact of eu interventions and provides cohesion policy with an important european added value. as to your question on the regional dimension of cohesion policy after 2013, the lisbon treaty maintains the objective of reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions as part of the union’s remit on economic, social and territorial cohesion under article 174. in addition, article 176 points out that the european regional development fund is intended to help to redress the main regional imbalances in the union through participation in the development and structural adjustment of regions whose development is lagging behind and in the conversion of declining industrial regions. as regards your question on the involvement of regional and local levels of governance in the pursuit of european objectives within the framework of post-2013 cohesion policy, once again i would like to draw your attention to the commission’s consultation paper on the eu 2020 strategy, which looks for the active support of stakeholders, such as the social partners and civil society, and recognises that the take-up of the eu 2020 vision across all the regions of the eu will also be crucial to its success. the commission has not yet developed a position on what role cohesion policy will play in the delivery of the eu 2020 strategy. but the cohesion policy has the capacity to mobilise regional or local actors across all boundaries in pursuit of european objectives. in relation to your question whether the commission intends to publish a white paper on territorial cohesion, at the current stage a separate white paper on territorial cohesion is not foreseen. policy conclusions resulting from the public debate on the green paper on territorial cohesion will instead be incorporated in the comprehensive cohesion policy legislative package for post-2013 prepared in the context of the 5th cohesion report, which according to the new treaty is due for submission in 2010. on your question concerning the role of the european social fund in cohesion policy, in pursuing the objective of balanced and sustainable development, cohesion policy plays a crucial role in the delivery of european priorities. this is also the case for the european social fund, which will continue to pursue its objectives as defined by title xi of the new treaty. achieving social, economic and territorial cohesion requires appropriate policies and a mix of investments from various levels. human capital investments financed by the esf form an essential component of this policy mix in the context of the global knowledge-based economy. with regard to your question on the role of cohesion policy in relation to other eu policies, cohesion policy provides the eu with its largest source of investment in the real economy. the december 2008 communication of the commission on ‘cohesion policy: investing in real economy’, underlined the importance of the policy for focusing on the eu lisbon agenda delivery, investing in people, business, research and innovation, priority infrastructures and energy. the commission’s current focus is on ensuring that the implementation of the planned investments can be delivered in partnership with national and regional authorities as effectively as possible. this effort involves close cooperation between relevant commission services and between the commission and relevant regional and local authorities. a practical example of cooperation between the commission services is the ‘practical guide to eu funding opportunities for research and innovation’ published in 2007, which was conceived to help potential beneficiaries to find their way through the three funding community instruments and provides policy makers with advice on coordinated access to those instruments. as far as the esf is concerned, the close alignment of its priorities with the employment guidelines provides for a direct link between eu employment policy priorities and eu financial support. complementarity also exists between actions supported by the cohesion policy and by the rural development policy as clearly set out in the community strategic guidelines of both policies. i hope that i have responded to some of your questions and i look forward to an interesting debate.
on behalf of the alde group. ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the reform of the structural funds is of fundamental importance as regards the possibility for the european union to have financial instruments that are adequate to its economic situation, natural and human resources. we are faced with the challenge of forecasting and defining a cohesion policy that ultimately supports the well-being of citizens. this policy was and is one of the most visible and quantifiable expressions of european solidarity, but the differences between some regions are too drastic to ignore. the worrying thing is that there are trends towards increasing them, which could deepen inequality and lead to isolation. as the representative of one of the poorest member states of the european union, i would argue that one of the focuses of cohesion policy should be the convergence of low-income member states. i would point out that we do not see the structural funds as a panacea. we are aware that we need to make efforts and increase our own speed towards achieving the basic standards of the european union, but we also warn of the possibility that the different speeds of the countries could lead at the appropriate moment to an internal restructuring of the european union. first of all, criteria, simplified conditions and equal opportunities for the use of the funds must be established, and only then a clause to reduce support for countries that do not make progress should be applied. i think it is good that if some countries have difficulty acting alone, they are included in areas and problems with a significant transnational dimension. this will also direct european funds to the richer countries and their regions with lower gdp. finally, the results of cohesion policy must also be measured by the jobs it creates. this is also an indicator of how it integrates with other policies and provides added value.
