mr president, it is true that the amending regulation which we are called upon to adopt may bring about an improvement in some member states where even infant biometric data are currently being collected, but it will not temporarily prevent some member states from dragging into these procedures persons under 12 years of age, who are not at this stage, in some countries, obliged to travel with a personal passport. the proposed exemptions must be assessed in the light of the real motives for their introduction, since, regardless of the age limit for obtaining biometric data, everyone can be caught at some point. such regulations essentially maintain and further institutionalize the use of whistleblowing methods by all, albeit rather innocent, citizens and grant the right to move our sensitive personal data. it is therefore our duty to remind the citizens, who in a few months' time will be asked to renew their vote in favour of the principles and policies of the european union, that we do not agree with such measures.
mr president, no law-abiding citizen should be worried about his or her identity or their children’s identity being substantiated. i therefore welcome the use of biometric data on passports and other documents. i just wanted to raise a point for future reference. it is a fact that no biometric characteristic stays the same from childhood to adulthood except one: dna finger-printing. this stays the same from conception to death and even beyond. it is possible today to identify someone even many years after his death by just obtaining some small specimen from the bone remains. dna finger-printing technology today is quick, it is cheap and it can be carried out on just a few cells which can be obtained either from a quick mouth mucosal swab or from a drop of blood taken from, for example, the umbilical cord. i therefore submit that in the future we should consider using dna finger-printing as the only one biometric identification – which is guaranteed to be the same for every individual – for all european citizens.
mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, the priorities of your presidency include: the european union's ability to take action internationally requires it to link its security to a strategic partnership with nato and to develop its own defence capabilities, complementary to nato. the citizens are asking: who are the threats to the european union that make it dependent on nato for its security? the european union is facing a clear threat from the israeli strategy of war, which the european union does not explicitly condemn and does not sanction, as it does in other cases. you further state that you want an economy without frontiers and that excessive regulation should be avoided, that the rise in the level of protectionism should be avoided. are these the lessons we are learning as the european union from the economic crisis? the failure to protect the weak and the speculation of the market? it is not surprising, therefore, that citizens are dissatisfied with the policies of the european union. the eurobarometer shows this, and we never take it into account. what is relevant today and what the mass demonstrations are highlighting is the need for a policy of peace and not complicit neutrality. the reactions and popular protest are a glaring proof of the need for justice and for a policy of control of the market and the prices of goods that allows each state to assume the social role assigned to it by its citizens without the doctrinal restrictions of the stability pact.
madam president, having had the traumatic experience of russian communism in the past, the czech republic has now gone to the extreme of attaching itself firmly and with obedience to the usa. this is demonstrated clearly not just by your stance on gaza and the lisbon treaty, president-in-office, but also by your government’s decision to station american missiles on czech soil. your willingness to serve faithfully the washington administration at the expense of putting europe’s peace at risk is unacceptable and suspicious. your country is today part of the eu, not of the us, and you must make sure your government acts accordingly. american satellite states have no place in our union. so, you must make up your mind: eu or us? you cannot have both!
mr president, returning from the gaza strip after seeing the massacre – predominantly of civilians – i feel the urge to express my wholehearted solidarity with the palestinian people. for 17 days, they have been facing the enormous israeli war machine that is flagrantly violating international law. i also express support for the peace forces in israel calling for an end to this war. after a long closure and siege that converted gaza into the largest open prison in the world, the building of the shameful wall around the west bank, the continuous expansion of the settlements, and the effective division of the palestinian land, the occupying forces have moved to the fiercest military operation. in this, the rocket attacks against southern israel – and i stress that i am against any attack from whichever side on civilians – served as the pretext. the ending of the ceasefire against the background of the power games in view of the israeli elections is an insult to a whole nation. the un security council has adopted a resolution. israel is a state, not an organisation; it is a member of the united nations. it has a responsibility towards the international community, and has to comply with this and all other resolutions adopted by the united nations. there should be respect for international law. no impunity should be permitted any longer. there should be a full international investigation. the international community demands an immediate ceasefire, the immediate withdrawal of the military forces, access to humanitarian aid, and freedom of movement for the population. let unwra carry out its mission. the eu has taken steps, but only at a humanitarian level. it has to show decisiveness at the political level. use the clauses in the association agreements. stop the upgrading of relations with israel. stop arms exports to israel. there can only be a political solution to this conflict. there should be a full return to international law, which means ending the 42-year-long occupation of palestine, and establishing a sovereign and viable palestinian state, thus building a peaceful future for both palestinian and israeli children. to save future generations, we need to stop the war now.
mr president, we are debating yet another humanitarian tragedy in our neighbourhood – next door to my country – by two of our partners in the mediterranean. alas, the palestinians have not yet accepted that suicide bombs or kassam rockets will never deliver liberation from the occupation of their land. israel does not realise that such an extensive military response nourishes new potential suicide bombers and invites new kassams at the first possible opportunity. what about the innocent civilians, the non-combatants, women and children? nobody cares about them. nobody cares about children killed, mutilated, burned and traumatised by the hundreds – children of israel and of palestine. we, from the comfort of our television sets, feel nauseated watching them. how about those on the ground? what can we do? just entering into the classic blame game does not help the civilians. making calls and resolutions does not help the civilians. how can we pass from words to deeds? the time is right to negotiate with the interested parties the formation of an international force – as was suggested by other colleagues – to go into gaza with a large police component composed of arab countries to train and help a palestinian authority police force in a large un mandate to impose law and order, as well as a military european force to ensure there is an end to rocket firing and weapon smuggling, and that there is the full opening of the crossings. we can no longer leave the fate of the civilians in the hands of the opposing sides.
mr president, is it ethically acceptable and is it excusable in international law that, in its endeavour to neutralise hamas terrorists, the state of israel can embark on a major military campaign of terror and gross violation of un conventions and human rights against 1.5 million trapped, innocent civilians? is such action consistent with our own eu values of justice and democracy? is the israeli lobby so strong that it can cause the us and the eu to – in effect – stand idle and just watch unspeakable atrocities being committed in the name of the fight against terror? if the answer to these questions is yes, then we should all commend as brave the israeli government for their action in gaza. if the answer is no, then we should strongly and clearly condemn israel and must take swift and effective steps against it, including trade sanctions, in order to end the carnage in gaza today and in the future. i disagree strongly with the minister who left, who said that we can in effect do very little. we can do a lot and we must.
mr president, diet is known to be an important contributor to good health. there is now indisputable scientific evidence that the mediterranean diet – based on the traditional dietary intake of citizens of the southern parts of europe, such as crete and cyprus – leads to a longer and healthier life, whereas the american-influenced junk food diet – such as industrially processed hamburgers, chips and sweets – leaders to a shorter life and one more affected by disease. good diet is especially important in children. so, will the commission do more – far more – in order to make sure that member states effectively promote the mediterranean diet in schools and even ban the use of diets proven to cause damage to children’s health in such institutions? by the way, mr commissioner, i did not quite understand why the eu is not a member of unesco? should it not be? (the president cut off the speaker.)
author. − mr president, the persecution of nobel prize laureate mrs shirin ebadi is only one example of many that are taking place in iran currently, and such persecution should come as no surprise to us considering the blinkered vision of the anachronistically theocratic rulers of that country. nor should we be surprised by the fact that the regime in iran will take no notice whatsoever of this resolution. they will laugh at it and throw it in the bin in exactly the same manner that they have dealt with all previous resolutions of this parliament. and who can blame them? they know that our resolutions are just words, not deeds, and in their estimation they are not worth the paper they are written on. if we really want to help bring change in iran then we must match our words with action. for example, we can remove the pmoi from our terrorist list, or we can stop lucrative contracts between eu member states and applicant countries and iran. if we take such action, then we can be sure that the authorities in tehran will take us seriously and will think twice about continuing with the persecution of their democracy-seeking citizens. so, it seems to me that we should have had a second motion for a resolution in addition to this one, calling on the governments of some eu member states, such as the uk and france, and applicant countries, such as turkey, to stop their hypocritical stance on iran and start taking real action against it immediately and effectively.
author. − mr president, guinea has had a very troubled past history, with european countries being in one way or another involved in its tragic past. it was taken over by the portuguese in the 15th century and its citizens were subjected to the european slave trade in the 16th century and beyond. in 1890, it was colonised by france. after independence in 1958, firm ties were formed with the soviet union. its post-colonial period was largely dominated by presidential totalitarianism, with its rulers being backed by its admittedly rather primitive army. guinea, although blessed with very rich mineral deposits, including iron, aluminium, gold, diamonds and uranium, is nevertheless one of the poorest countries in the world. these minerals are being exploited by companies from russia, ukraine, france, britain, australia and canada. heavy corruption of officials is well known to occur, and the governments of the countries to which such companies belong seem to care very little about the welfare of guinea’s citizens, and only start complaining about the appalling human rights situation in the country when their financial interests are disrupted or threatened. be that as it may, presently there is yet another dictator in power in guinea, a young junior army officer called captain camara. he heads a junta that has pledged to rid the country of corruption and to improve living standards for its 10 million citizens. to this end, a 32-member national council for democracy and development was set up to govern the country. i have no idea whether captain camara is genuine in his endeavours, or whether he will succeed in improving matters in guinea. but one thing is certain: things cannot get worse than they have been for the last few decades, during which europe and the rest of the world were happy just to sit back, watch and enjoy the benefits of the mineral exploitation of guinea. so, although i oppose military dictatorships a priori, i can only hope that after a short period of time a transition to democracy might occur.
author. − mr president, freedom of the press is synonymous with freedom of expression and democracy. this does not, of course, apply in an ideal fashion in our society, in which media barons as well as government and political party media interference are not unheard of, but is rather prominent in some western countries, not excluding the usa and some eu member states. however, at least as far as legislation is concerned, the media in our societies are given the theoretical protection of the law they need to function as near properly as possible. this is where we beg to differ with the kenyan government, which is introducing legislative measures that can be used for possible repression and persecution of the press by the state. we therefore call on the kenyan authorities to reconsider their stance on the matter and give their mass media the legislative freedom they need in order to try, at least, to function as democratically as possible. the kenyan government must understand and accept that the protection of the press is essential for their country’s road to betterment of living standards for its citizens. we hope and trust that the plea we have made through this resolution will not be seen as interference but as friendly advice to the government of kenya, that it will be taken seriously into consideration and that there will be wiser reconsideration of what they have been doing so far.
mr president, while we are debating humanitarian issues and freedom of the press in third countries, i take the opportunity to inform the house that, according to media reports from gaza, the offices of the un which were bombarded earlier on today by the israeli forces are completely ablaze and all the un humanitarian aid which was stored there, much of it sent by the eu, has been completely destroyed. the same fate has befallen the offices of reuters and of other international journalists in gaza. i wish to record that i share the view of the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, currently in israel, who is reportedly completely outraged at the israeli authorities.
mr president, the murder of prisoners of war and of civilians captured during wartime constitutes one of the most severe violations of international law. the third and fourth geneva conventions state clearly that such acts fall far below the standards of international law and render the perpetrator liable in the eyes of the international community. it is in this same spirit that article 2 of the european convention of human rights declares the taking of life a flagrant violation. the recent confession by the turkish actor attila olgaç to the murder of 10 greek cypriot captives during the turkish invasion in cyprus in the summer of 1974 has brought to light once more the crimes committed by turkey and entails an inescapable responsibility for turkey to open its archives for the investigation of the fate of all missing persons. the international community, in which the european union is a significant player, must put all possible pressure on turkey to comply with international law, the related decisions of the european court of human rights, and all relevant un resolutions.
mr president, two years ago this parliament adopted almost unanimously a resolution. the resolution called for the fate of the missing in cyprus to be determined. two years have passed and there is no progress: the commission has also received a request from the turkish army to provide the committee with all the information in its possession. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken any action in this direction. on the contrary, we have today a public confession by a turkish man who was a soldier at the time and who, for reasons of conscience, because he can no longer stand it, confessed to killing ten greek cypriots. the turkish army is aware of these and other crimes, and there is certainly no civilized man today, turkish or of any other nationality, who does not condemn these war crimes. but what should we do? we must intensify our efforts to put pressure on the turkish army to provide the committee with information so that the tragedy of the relatives of the missing persons can be brought to an end.
madam president, it is truly inconceivable and shameful that, in the 21st century, with respect to sexual offences against children, the level of cooperation between different services within a state – but also of cooperation between member states themselves – is not what it should be. i congratulate both the commissioner and the rapporteur for speaking so clearly and for stressing the need for actual improvement. i further ask them to name publicly those member states that have deficient legislation in this respect. one measure i suggest should be considered is the establishment of a pan-european – or even better, international – public list of offenders convicted of sexual offences against children. i propose that such a listing should be permanent, with no possibility of anyone’s name being erased from it unless there has been a court decision reversing the original conviction. a sexual offence against a child causes permanent damage to the victim and should also result in permanent labelling of the perpetrator. this will be an additional measure of punishment, but will also act as a prevention measure.
the directive we are considering, madam president, concerns one of the most fundamental aspects of the development and economic viability of our countries. it concerns illegal employment which often leads to a squeeze on wages and a shrinking of public funds with all the attendant difficulties in providing benefits, as well as a reduction in the functioning of the welfare state. it denies employers access to social and other insurance, pensions or even protection bodies in relation to conditions at their workplace. unfortunately, illegal employment is part of the existing system which has led to the global economic crisis which we must address by means which contribute not just to ensuring curative but also genuine corrective measures which ensure long-term prosperity. we therefore consider that the fight against illegal employment cannot be considered in isolation. the measures proposed to ensure a humane treatment of migrants do not satisfy us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
madam president, the rapporteur, mr claudio fava, and the shadow rapporteurs deserve our warmest congratulations indeed. they have reached an excellent compromise with the council, of course with the cooperation of the vice-president, mr barrot, whom i also congratulate. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers against discrimination based on sex. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action to combat this problem. it is the first time that the european union has turned its attention in the right direction to the exploiters of illegal immigrants, to the illegal employers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration. the criminal and other sanctions provided for in the directive will, i am sure, be a deterrent and a deterrent to limit and prevent the unacceptable exploitation of illegal immigrants. the penalties provided for in the directive are manifold, balanced and realistic. i hope they prove effective. although illegal immigrants are treated as victims and protected by the directive, they themselves are also receiving a deterrent message that they will no longer be easy to employ and that there will therefore be no attraction to securing work even under unfavourable conditions. but special care must be taken for all those illegal immigrants who are already in the european union. in my own country, cyprus, where the problem of immigration is very big, illegal employment has long been criminalized. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the right of asylum is guaranteed.
mr president, the european parliament's position on guantanamo is set out in the special resolution of 2006. guantanamo should never have been created and it should have been closed. the european parliament's position on terrorism is also clear. the fight against terrorism by all legal means, but not the fight against terrorism by violating human rights and international law. it is a fact that the united states had taken the brunt of the fight against terrorism. but they also made big mistakes. guantanamo was a mistake. a big mistake was the way they treated the prisoners. the way they were transported was a big mistake. that is what has been said in this parliament. what matters today is this right decision by president obama to close this prison of shame and it is pro-american, and it is in the best interest of american history that decision and of the international community at large. how is the european union involved? the european union is committed to supporting and cooperating in the implementation of this good decision by president obama. the european union must do so, however, on one condition: that it does not put the security of its citizens at risk. this is essential and for this reason whatever is decided by any member state should be decided in this light.
author. − madam president, sri lanka has been afflicted by internal fighting for decades. this tragic situation came about as a result of the armed conflict mainly between separatist insurgent forces in the north and the sri lankan army. during this fighting, thousands of innocent people were killed and injured and much destruction to property, infrastructure and the environment has been caused. this sorry state of affairs has been exacerbated in recent months mainly due to the government’s large-scale military offensive against the tamil tigers. reports coming out of sri lanka indicate that the situation in certain areas has in recent weeks deteriorated tragically, with hundreds of civilians being displaced and being caught up in the fighting. according to amnesty international, there have been violations of international conventions and human rights by both government and tamil tiger forces. admittedly, it is very difficult in such circumstance to be absolutely sure as to who is to be blamed for some of the tragic events in sri lanka, but we must call on both sides to exercise restraint and to pay utmost attention and respect to innocent civilians, and to observe the conventions of war. since the sri lankan government has the upper hand in the situation and is the internationally-recognised authority in the country, our call must by necessity and logic go mostly to them. at the same time we must call on the tamil tiger leaders to abide by the calls of the international community, take advantage of the government’s offer of amnesty, renounce violence and seek to achieve their aims through political dialogue. we must also once again advise emphatically that fighting solves no problems, and that lasting peace and stability can only be achieved at the negotiating table, which will inevitably happen sooner or later. in these negotiations, compromises will have to be made by both sides and a solution found which will be for the benefit of the citizens of this beautiful country. we hope that through this resolution we will help to lessen the suffering of the sri lankan people and to bring about much-needed peace in that country.
author. − madam president, the brutal regime governing burma has, for some time now, been causing thousands of civilians to leave that country in search of a more secure future and a better standard of living in neighbouring thailand or, via thailand, in other south-east asian countries. amongst these destitute people are the indigenous rohingya community of western burma, who in recent years have been the victims of ethnic cleansing carried out by the burmese government. unfortunately, the thai authorities have not provided those refugees with the humanitarian assistance they so clearly deserve. instead, it is reported that these people have been fiercely persecuted. we call on the thai government to respect the human rights of burmese refugees and treat them with respect, compassion, dignity and humanity. this resolution also gives me the opportunity to deal with the issue of the 41-year-old australian writer of cypriot origin, harry nicolaides, who was sentenced to three years’ imprisonment in thailand for allegedly insulting the country’s royal family in a novel he wrote in 2005. mr nicolaides was teaching english at a thai university at the time, and in his novel he only makes an anonymous reference to a member of the thai royal family, and the incriminated work is clearly fictitious. during his trial, mr nicolaides was paraded in front of the international media in chains and told reporters that he had endured unspeakable suffering. mr nicolaides has apologised to the thai royal family and has made an appeal for royal grace. we believe that mr nicolaides has been subjected to enough punishment and ill-treatment by the thai authorities, who have handled this case most insensitively and inappropriately, and we call on them, as well as the royal family, to effect mr nicolaides’ immediate release and return to his home in australia. not to do so would be most unwise, pitiful and damaging to thailand.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, those who are found guilty by our courts of law must face the consequences and not be given refuge by any country in the world. cesare battisti is a convicted murderer in italy, and the stance taken by the brazilian authorities to protect him from the reach of eu justice is not only unacceptable but also condemnable and deplorable in the strongest possible terms and we, and any other authority and any other body in the eu, have every right to say so. i hope that the brazilian government will come to its senses and in re-examining this case will do what is expected of it and extradite mr battisti to italy as soon as possible and before this affair begins to have serious consequences for the otherwise good eu-brazil relations. brazil must not become a safe haven for convicted criminals and the eu must never allow murderers to escape punishment.
madam president, this has happened for the last five years. it is not just today that it has happened. it is a little bit too late to note it today.
madam president, i think there is something else further down the line and i think mr tannock should tell us about that as well before we vote. there is another small change.
madam president, in order to be correct i think we have to vote on recital k now.
the report on the role of nato in the european union was an occasion to raise the question of cyprus's participation in the partnership for peace and nato. respect for the position of the republic of cyprus is essential. intervention in the internal affairs of a sovereign member state for the purpose of accession which is not required by any treaty is not legitimate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cyprus problem is resolved, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the complete demilitarisation of a turkish-occupied homeland and the guarantee of the viability of a future solution must be the sole objective of all. this is the position of the european parliament in other reports. we call on you to support amendments nos 22, 23 and 24 and to vote against those which constitute an interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state. we call on you to confirm that the principle of respect for the sovereign rights of the member states is inviolable, whatever your overall view of the partnership or nato. our choice is to demilitarize and adhere to the principles of international law.
madam president, nato is the backbone of european defence, and we rely on nato forces for the security of our union. but nato forces in cyprus – turkish nato forces – are not a force of freedom, but one of occupation: occupation of eu territory. not only did these turkish forces cause death and destruction on the island when turkey invaded in 1974, but they today continue to keep an eu member state divided, causing fear and oppression among both greek and turkish cypriots and obstructing the current negotiations between the two community leaders on the island. so, in discussing nato’s important role in european defence, it is fair to remember that the eu has not yet put the necessary pressure on turkey to get its nato invasion army out of cyprus unconditionally and immediately. do you not agree with me, mr solana? perhaps he is not listening. do you not agree that the turkish army should leave cyprus immediately, mr solana?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i also wish to congratulate ms napoletano, not only on the excellent report she has produced, but also for the valuable cooperation she has offered to the shadow rapporteurs. the subject matter of the report is extremely important as it deals with the prospect of having a euro-mediterranean union of states bound together through friendship and cooperation and aiming at the common goal of achieving peace, stability and prosperity for their citizens. this is not an easy task, not least because regional conflicts such as the israeli-palestinian problem are not easy to resolve – or even to cope with, sometimes. nevertheless, hope must never be given up and the union for the mediterranean can only be of help in keeping such hope alive. and who knows? perhaps it would help to turn hope into reality in the form of long-term stability and lasting solutions to regional problems. it is important to note in this debate the valuable contribution made to the initiation of the proposed project by the french government, and it is also important to reiterate that the formation of the union for the mediterranean is not offered as an alternative to turkey’s planned accession to the eu. we should make sure that the turkish people know and understand that there is no such hidden aim or trickery. finally, with regard to the amendments before us, the alde group, with the pse group, have agreed on five compromise amendments aiming to improve further the report. the additional five amendments submitted by the gue/ngl group are not thought to be very helpful and will not be supported by my group. my congratulations once again to the rapporteur.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate ms napoletano on her report. certainly the union for the mediterranean is a significant step forward in the efforts for the euro-mediterranean partnership. one of the impediments to this partnership so far has been visibility: the capability of the populations of the partners to acknowledge the impact of the barcelona process and our union for the mediterranean. let me give you an example. when i was asked to prepare a report on de-pollution of the mediterranean, the programmes involved are the following: the mediterranean hotspot investment programme, the strategy for water in the mediterranean, the eu marine strategy, the unep/map, the mediterranean strategy for sustainable development, the mediterranean environmental technical assistance programme, the mediterranean eu water initiative and the myis, which have been running under the umbrella of the horizon 2020 programme. this fragmentation makes visibility suffer. the other impediment is the middle east problem. i salute the position of mr solana that the quartet will this time operate in a different way to the past. this is not due to the lack of will on the part of the european union, but due to the previous policy of the american administration. i hope that, this time, with the dispatch of mr mitchell to the area, political progress will be made. we have done a lot on this issue. i visited lebanon very recently, and i saw there that unifil, with the presence of the european contingents, makes a repeat of hostilities in southern lebanon and israel impossible.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would also like to congratulate mr szymański on his comprehensive report, which will have the support of our group in the vote tomorrow. i would also like to congratulate commissioner ferrero-waldner, both on the success of the enpi and of the projects that lie ahead, with the need for an eastern partnership concerning, in particular, our eastern neighbours and partners, as well as the black sea synergy. once these are constituted and take on their own identity – for example, with a parliamentary assembly, etc., as we are doing for the mediterranean – perhaps they will all assume a distinct identity, even in the way they are financed. i discern some kind of rivalry – or, let us say, anxiety – among members. we have just heard about not creating one thing to the financial detriment of another. that should not happen. we know that the union for the mediterranean, the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy, etc. are in the interests of the european union. those arrangements should not be a reason for countries aspiring to join the european union to have to be told time and time again that this is not the alternative to membership that some are worrying about.
mr president, among the suggestions that the us secretary of state seems to have made to the israelis during her visit there were to stop the construction and expansion of settlements in the west bank, to open the roadblocks and to end the erection of the wall and the expulsion of the palestinians from east jerusalem, and for gaza, to allow the import of cement and building materials that are necessary for the reconstruction of the area. these are good suggestions, but they seem to fall on deaf ears, because while the israelis do not allow the passage of the above materials into gaza, they have no hesitation in illegally extracting the three quarters of the materials that feed the israeli construction industry from the west bank, ruthlessly destroying the natural environment, while the legitimate owners of the land reap no economic benefit. it is time for the united states and the european union to lift the impunity of israel, not just by words and gestures. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, the package of seven proposals on shipping is an important development in accident prevention and in ensuring an effective response in the event of accidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr sterckx, and the whole negotiating team on having reached a valuable compromise on this important issue. a small accident, a small crack in the tank of an oil tanker, if not contained and contained, in the event of vibrations from sea turbulence or difficulty in sucking the cargo into another vessel, can lead to a major ecological disaster if there is no shelter to take appropriate measures. in addition, any fear of the crew of being at risk of criminal or civil consequences, or if the vessels are poorly insured, may prevent them from seeking refuge with unpleasant consequences. this compromise ensures the independence of the experts who will decide on the accommodation of ships in distress, the good treatment of seafarers in the event of an accident in accordance with the imo, the obligation of uninsured ships to shelter, the compensation of ports and shelters for damage - on this subject the commission will present various policy options - the obligation of oil tankers to inform about their cargo if it exceeds 1000 tonnes. at the same time, all vessels, including fishing vessels, should be equipped with an automatic identification system. in conclusion, i welcome the fact that parliament's manipulations have finally forced the council to reach a common position on all seven legislative proposals in the package.
member of the commission. − you are aware that in the council there are different opinions concerning this issue and you know that there is no unanimity concerning the position of the council on this issue. so, as i said in my answer we, the commission, fully share the opinions of the council – and i refer to the conclusions of the council from april 2008 – that the full cooperation with the tribunal is essential for following the process.
member of the commission. − the commission took note of the use of greek cypriot-owned properties in the north of cyprus. the commission is aware of this problem, which has been exacerbated by the accession of cyprus to the european union on 1 may 2004, and shares the concern of the distinguished member of the european parliament. as regards the specific cases referred to by the distinguished member of parliament, the commission has no information and is therefore not in a position to give an opinion. the european commission reaffirms its full commitment to support the efforts of the leaders of the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities to identify a comprehensive solution to the cyprus problem under the auspices of the united nations. such a solution would resolve the problems of ownership on the island, to which the distinguished member of the european parliament refers.
mr president, i am a cypriot member of parliament, i have supported turkey's accession to europe since the time of president özal and i support it today. in the fourth interstate appeal the court of human rights ruled that turkey is responsible for the confiscation of greek cypriot property. what can be done? how can we tolerate this situation for so many years? are there first and second class human rights or does their application depend on the size of the country?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, commissioner, the progress report on turkey and its assessment in december will be about whether or not turkey is complying with all the copenhagen criteria and obligations under the association agreement and the ankara additional protocol. the goal of full membership, important to turkey and the european union, remains a driving force for a series of reforms and changes in turkey's policies towards ensuring the rights of all minorities, a political solution to the kurdish issue, recognition of the armenian genocide and the lifting of the border embargo with armenia. turkey must comply with all its contractual obligations towards the european union, as it has done with all the previous acceding countries. instead, turkey is not complying with its stated contractual obligations towards the union concerning the republic of cyprus as a member state. it refuses to open its ports and airports to ships and aircraft of the republic and to lift its veto on cyprus's participation in international organisations. and while it seeks to be a regulatory factor in the region, it continues to violate international law by occupying cyprus. we are now in the middle of negotiations to resolve the cyprus problem on the basis of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation with political equality, as stated in un resolutions, in the framework of international and european law. the union must therefore maintain its position of principle and increase its pressure so that turkey can make substantial progress in the negotiations, end the occupation and take appropriate action to clarify the fate of the missing. we are bringing this matter up again with an amendment, although there is another resolution on the missing, on the occasion of the recent statements by the turkish soldier olgatch about the execution in 1974 of 10 greek cypriot prisoners who are still missing. the issue is purely humanitarian and it does not lose its value no matter how many times we repeat it. the energy sector cannot be opened unless turkey stops obstructing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone. and i read in a specific report of yours, commissioner, that the commission is concerned about the harassment of turkish warships against vessels carrying out hydrocarbon exploration in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus. furthermore, in its conclusions of 8 december 2008, the council discourages any threats, frictions or actions which could adversely affect good neighbourly relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes. it would be good, commissioner, to push turkey in the right direction, which is precisely what you have said. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
madam president, i would like to congratulate commissioner rehn on his position on the oomen-ruijten report, which was that it is essential for turkey to proactively support the ongoing talks between the leaders of the two communities in cyprus. that is why we are in full agreement with the rapporteur when, in paragraph 40 of her report, she calls on turkey ‘to facilitate a suitable climate for negotiations by withdrawing turkish forces and allowing the two leaders to negotiate freely their country’s future’. i would suggest that, at this moment of direct talks, it might not be advisable for the european parliament to include in its report any proposal for derogations from the acquis. to complement the rapporteur’s position, we also call on turkey to comply with its obligations regarding investigations into the fate of missing persons and to stop interfering in the republic of cyprus’ exclusive economic zone. in so doing, turkey will itself facilitate its way towards accession.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on turkey because of the positive elements on cyprus in paragraphs 32 and 40, although i disagree with the content of amendments nos 9 and 10. amendment no 9 introduces the inadmissible position of derogations, even temporary ones, from the principles on which the european union is founded, including the four fundamental freedoms. this is happening at a time when negotiations are taking place between the leaders of the two communities in cyprus, who alone can decide on the matter. amendment no 10 is contrary to the fact that the cept is an acquis of the european union and the member states, so it cannot be given a blank cheque for participation in planning and decision-making processes in third countries.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report as a whole, but i expressly disagree and do not commit myself, and that is why i voted against amendment no 9 on paragraph 40 of the text, originally tabled by the greens and completed by the rapporteur. the amendment takes the form 'except for temporary transitional derogations' (referring to temporary transitional derogations from the four fundamental freedoms of the eu) and is attached to the final text. in the explanatory statement for my vote i would like to make it clear that i am not bound by it and therefore do not support this amendment, because i believe that it raises problems in the smooth search for a democratic and european solution to the cyprus problem.
author. − madam president, this poverty-stricken ex-colony has suffered decades of political instability and crisis, resulting in profound and prolonged suffering for its citizens. its transition to democratic rule and better times for its people appeared a promising prospect after the 2008 legislative elections were carried out in an apparently fair and peaceful manner. however, the dark clouds of divisive hate and violence appeared again over the country after the shooting of president vieira by renegade soldiers on 2 march, the day after the killing of the chief of the army. we condemn both those murders, and we can only hope that the rival parties in guinea-bissau will find the necessary will and power to resolve their disputes through dialogue at the negotiating table for the sake of their citizens’ well-being. in addition, as guinea-bissau has in recent years evolved into an important drug-trafficking country, we urge not only the country’s authorities but also the international community to do their utmost in fighting effectively this deadly curse.
author. − madam president, the situation in mindanao is grave, with hundreds of thousands of internally displaced persons living in desperate conditions. the long-standing insurgency is a factor in this sorry state of affairs, but so is the not-so-democratic status of successive filipino governments with the latter being widely held responsible by international agencies, such as the un human rights council, for showing remarkable impunity from extrajudicial killings and the forced disappearances of hundreds of filipino citizens whose activities were thought to have been in disagreement with official government policy. such impunity must be terminated. in addition, the government of the philippines must urgently resume peace negotiations with the milf and both sides must renounce violence and solve their differences at the negotiating table.
author. − madam president, this house is very concerned about the decision by the sudanese government to expel humanitarian organisations from darfur, a move which could have catastrophic results for hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians. we understand that commissioner michel, the eu presidency, the un emergency relief coordinator, president obama and many others have involved themselves in trying to affect a reversal of this decision. since this is a very sensitive matter requiring very delicate handling, we consider that, before any resolution is passed by this house, every possible chance of success must be given to these efforts. therefore, we will vote against this resolution, not because we disagree with its contents but because we must wait to see the outcome of the aforementioned efforts. this we consider to be the most sensible and wise thing to do at this point in time and under the present circumstances.
madam president, the present economic crisis brings to the fore again our constant position on the need to regulate and not deregulate the mergers and establishments of multinational and other companies, on the need to change antitrust legislation, on the need to intervene to prevent the creation of monopolies and cartels which, among other things, manipulate the market, set prices, dismiss and have only profit as their objective. citizens are seeing the results of a development without a social character which, instead of creating permanent jobs, aims at further concentrating wealth and power in the hands of a few. the liberalization of financial markets, which is the constant position of the right and others, has led to a deep economic blow that affects the people directly. because until a year ago, the political leaders of deregulation and the opponents of government regulation were proud of the state of the economies, let me remind you that these very policies led to waves of poverty and inequality, to negative economic growth, to the shameful profits of food companies with profits of 40 billion each in 2008. the message will be given by the citizens to those who have created the crisis and, at the same time, the inequalities.
mr president, i would also like to express my best wishes to our friend john bowis for a speedy recovery and all the best and, at the same time, to thank him for his hard work. i want to start by saying that we are in no way opposed to cross-border care. on the contrary, we recognize the need for the member states to make use of the power conferred on them by the treaty on european union, namely article 152. unfortunately, this directive is based on article 95, and i will also be waiting for the commissioner to clarify what happens to the legal basis. we do not want a policy which favours the economically privileged patients at the expense of the lower social classes. mr maaten is not here, my dear jules, i do not think it is an ideological embrace to say that patients can be created at two speeds. the aim must be to provide equal health care, without european union intervention in social security systems, and without seeking to commercialise the health sector.
mr president, this report marks a turning point for health-care provision to eu citizens. it clearly and decidedly puts the health of patients first, and it sets the scene for health systems in different member states to compete for improvement on a healthy basis. this legislation will undoubtedly serve to cause a substantial betterment of health care in europe. it will also bring equality to patient care, with all citizens, rich or poor, known or unknown, having access to better treatment abroad as necessary. my initial concerns regarding possible detrimental effects on national systems of smaller and poorer member states have been removed by the prior authorisation provision to be included as a safeguard. i can now say with certainty that this legislation is good for both patients and health-care systems across all member states, and it deserves our full and unanimous support. i am astonished by the negative stance taken by my socialist colleagues in this respect.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, approximately 10% of patients admitted to hospitals and about 15% of patients receiving primary care in the eu suffer some kind of adverse event, ranging from a mild, fully recoverable condition to a life-threatening or fatal occurrence. in other words, about one in four of our patients suffer damage because of the treatment and not because of their disease. this statistic is even more dramatic when we consider that the number of health-care-associated deaths in europe is almost twice the number of deaths caused by road traffic accidents. ms sartori’s report can do much to improve matters, but, as always, the success of any policy depends very much on its application, and in this respect national governments have the responsibility to prove, by their deeds, whether they really care about their citizens. health-care systems, especially in the 12 newer member states, need in many cases a complete overhaul, with attention required to the structural improvement of hospitals, the modernisation of equipment and up-to-date training of health personnel. such changes can occur only with the help of the eu, both in terms of finance and expertise, and such help must be made readily available for the sake of patients’ safety.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for your comprehensive and detailed presentation. i was the rapporteur for the european parliament on the preparation of the 27 member states to deal with avian influenza. at that time, we had noted with the commissioner's office that some countries were lagging behind others, particularly in the storage of antiviral medicines. i would like to ask you whether this is still the case today or not, which means that the member states are now more prepared. i would also like to ask you to do something about the paraphilology and irresponsible rumours that are circulating throughout the european union and are panicking the citizens. i believe that it is also the responsibility of the member states and that your office should perhaps make a recommendation on this.
madam president, i will also support the compromise but i am not at all sure that we are doing the right thing because the issue at hand is not whether we kill seals or whether the seals are in danger of not surviving: these issues have been cleared up. the issue is whether they are killed humanely or not. and of course in our daily existence we know there are hundreds of thousands of animals that we are happy to have killed, either to eat them or to use their products in other ways. we are happy to have fish dying after hours of suffering on hooks and in nets and we do not complain about that. so why are we complaining about the seals? well, because they are beautiful animals and because watching their blood being spilt on white ice is not very nice. so are we voting and are we deciding with our hearts rather than with our brains and our heads on this? i just wonder.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss this evening the proposal for a revision of the directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr parish, and the three committees of parliament which have dealt with the report for their efforts and their comments. i am sure that the dialogue that will follow will be constructive. many member states have long established their own national legislation for the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. this has the effect of creating different levels of protection in europe. the review will harmonise the level of protection within the community and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. the commission's aim is to improve the european union's legislation governing animal testing. this will both reduce the number of animals used in experiments and ensure that animals undergoing experiments are properly cared for and treated, as required by the protocol on the protection and welfare of animals annexed to the treaty establishing the european communities. we want this revision to bring about a significant improvement in the welfare of laboratory animals in the european union. animal welfare requirements are now formally included in the treaty on european union and must be taken into account in policy-making in areas such as the internal market. the proposal was drawn up with the participation, through transparent and inclusive procedures, of experts and specialists in the field of animal testing, the research community, directly concerned industry and citizens. the proposal is also based on a carefully documented impact assessment. in addition, many scientific bodies have made important contributions to this process. the proposal was drawn up by means of a comparative analysis of the potential benefits and costs of action versus inaction. the present proposal strikes the right balance between promoting competitiveness and research in europe and taking full account of the need for animal welfare. the commission has carefully examined the concerns expressed by some parties that the proposal would force european research out of the union, due to the alleged administrative burden or costs involved in these animal welfare requirements. however, there is no evidence of any such leakage outside the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. there is indeed no contradiction between setting high standards of animal welfare and promoting a high level of scientific research. the two concepts are interrelated. the commission proposal provides that the authorization of research on animals which retain consciousness is to be systematically accompanied by an independent ethical assessment. this is the way in which the principles of replacement, reduction and improvement of animal use are applied. these provisions are a fundamental objective of the review. we would be unable to meet our objectives if we replaced licensing with tacit agreement for any kind of research or if we allowed ethical assessment to be carried out by those who have a direct interest in the research project. the commission also wishes to avoid any interruption of research projects in progress and to keep the administrative burden to a minimum. to this end, flexibility in implementation is allowed and the use of existing infrastructure in member states is encouraged where possible. the amendment to the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes is designed to ensure that the animal welfare standards are respected. the existing legislation urgently needs to be strengthened and upgraded in a properly balanced way and this is exactly what the commission's proposal is achieving.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − madam president, it is a necessary evil of our times that, unfortunately, human and animal health research requires, as a must, animal experimentation. it is my firm belief that no true scientist enjoys experimenting on animals or does so when alternative means of research are available. such research must of course at all times be as humane as possible to the animals involved. to this end the directive under debate seeks – correctly, in my view – to improve matters significantly and decidedly. important areas of note are the safeguarding of the principles of ethical review and authorisation as well as the concepts of enhanced national inspections and increased transparency throughout. it must be emphasised that the aim of the scientific and political world should always be to phase out the use of animals in research if and when alternative and effective methods not using animals are made available.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission can only rejoice at the result we are achieving, which will lead to the adoption of a new directive amending the old directive. this fills the legal vacuum created by the court of justice's judgment annulling framework decision 2005/667 laying down the nature, type and level of criminal penalties to be imposed for the unlawful discharge of polluting substances into the sea. once adopted, the directive will make it possible to fight more effectively against those responsible for marine pollution. the text which parliament is about to adopt is therefore an important addition to the third maritime safety package signed by the president of parliament and the president of the council on the sidelines of your last plenary session. the compromise text under discussion, although somewhat different from the commission's original proposal, nevertheless retains the essential elements: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the discharge of dangerous substances. the commission therefore supports the text, even though it introduces a separate treatment for minor and repeated minor infringements. i can also understand why the council and parliament have felt it desirable that discharges which do not cause a deterioration in the quality of water should not necessarily be the subject of criminal proceedings. i am even more sensitive than the european parliament to the fact that these small discharges, which, although of minor gravity, can cause, precisely because of their repetitive nature, a real pollution of the marine environment, are punishable by criminal penalties. the compromise reached on the question of minor repeated infringements clarifies the concept of 'repeated' and can therefore be accepted by the commission, which, i repeat, is pleased with the objective achieved thanks also to the work of the commission services, to the work of my colleagues in parliament, so i think that today we can say that we are satisfied because we are giving a signal in the direction of reducing the pollution of our seas.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − mr president, the legal vacuum created by the relevant ruling of the european court of justice necessitated the amendment of the directive under debate. it is incredible that a legal-basis error has caused a delay in the implementation of such an important directive, and has without doubt been detrimental to our marine environment. lessons can and must be learned by all concerned in order to avoid such occurrences in the future. the main issue at this point in time is to speedily amend the proposed directive and get it on the road to implementation as soon as possible. only then can we envisage the widespread problem of the increase in the incidence and scale of illegal operational discharges of ship-source polluting substances being brought under control, and only then will our task of fighting to keep our seas clean have real hope of success. in conclusion, i wish to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done on this report.
mr president, we have founded a lot of our efforts and based many of our policies on the hope that by being nice to turkey this country will change its kemalic fascism into democratic-like behaviour that is just about acceptable. we were absolutely wrong and have rapidly become desperately disappointed and frustrated. the democratic reform process in turkey has been moving with the pace of a three-legged turtle. commissioner, we and the vast majority of the european citizens we represent have run out of patience. we have had enough. the governing regime in turkey has proven itself totally incapable and unwilling to get its country into the state of a 21st-century civilisation. commissioner, the carrot technique has failed gloriously and you have to admit it. the time has now come to use the stick.
mr president, the right of freedom of religion cannot, in my view, disregard the rules and regulations of our countries and cannot violate so profoundly our standards of respect for slaughter hygiene and animal welfare. therefore, i fail to see why, in the name of religion, we should tolerate anachronistic, unhygienic and even sadistic killings of animals, sometimes done in pompous ceremonial circumstances, carried out in front of both adults and children. i therefore believe that animals should only be killed under the controlled circumstances of an authorised and inspectable slaughterhouse and no animal should be slaughtered without prior stunning. freedom of religion is one thing, causing unnecessary pain to animals and violating hygiene rules is another. the rules and laws in the eu should be the same for all, irrespective of religion.
madam president, to be critical of others in a credible way, one has first to be critical of oneself. in this respect, as we condemn human rights violations around the world, we must always bear in the mind the human rights violations that take place within the eu. let me remind you of two examples. firstly, turkey, a candidate member state, for the last 35 years has kept the northern part of cyprus under military occupation, having violently expelled around 200 000 people from their homes. in turkish-army-occupied cypriot territory, more than 500 christian churches and monasteries have been subjected to destruction and hundreds of christian cemeteries have been desecrated. today 1 600 eu citizens are still missing since the 1974 turkish invasion of cyprus. secondly, britain. a member state keeps under the sovereignty of its crown two colonies in cyprus: the areas of akrotiri and dhekelia. thousands of civilians – eu citizens – living in these areas are subjected to... (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, the eurodac system is about fingerprinting asylum seekers. while acknowledging that efforts are being made to improve the previous framework for the operation of eurodac, we still have doubts about two main issues: firstly, respect for the fundamental rights of people coming to europe for a better future, since this is essentially a 'eurodac' with which we strongly disagree. secondly, whether the measures adopted are in line with the union's own basic principles, such as the protection of personal data, and whether the measures envisaged are compatible with the principle of proportionality. the fingerprinting of 14-year-olds is not consistent. the measures proposed, with which we disagree, prevent asylum seekers from seeking a second chance in another member state in the event of rejection by a first. and this is at a time when, as we all know, asylum procedures always involve a degree of subjectivity that can be to the detriment of a person who is already a victim. since this is my last speech to this house, i would like to thank you, all colleagues and staff for your cooperation.
i would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs, mr zwiefka, mr deprez and mrs pagano. i would like to congratulate mrs pagano in particular on her report as shadow rapporteur and thank her for her kind words and at the same time thank her for the very close cooperation she has had with me in the preparation of the report. i would also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, according to the commissioner, almost all the points in this report are accepted by the commission. i therefore fully endorse mrs pagano's report and of course what she has said in the chamber today. commissioner, it has been ten years since the european council in tampere declared that it had set itself the strategic objective of creating an area of freedom, justice and security in the european union. ten years since the declaration that the cornerstone of judicial cooperation is mutual recognition and respect for the decisions of the highest courts. i must say that very little has been done in this direction. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the application of the principle of equal treatment in the field of employment. we hope that with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon there will be more progress in this direction. the commission has also proposed that the council should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the minimum procedural rights, which is a proposal which has not been put forward, and i would also like to ask the council to do so. the proposal to set up a committee of experts to study all the differences and similarities in law is therefore necessary to make concrete scientific suggestions for the convergence of our law and mutual respect of legal systems.
author. − madam president, i will not repeat what was said already regarding the ruthless iranian theocratic regime. i agree with those positions, but i want to approach the subject from an angle similar to that used by my fellow mep, mr mayer, who has just left. iran, a country with thousands of years of civilisation and culture, is today in a sorry state of affairs as far as democracy, civil rights and justice are concerned. some of our countries in the west are not free from blame for this situation. let us not forget that governments such as those of the usa and britain have for years supported, armed and kept in power the well-known monstrous dictatorship of the shah of iran. it was inevitable that, when the shah was finally overthrown by popular uprising, islamic extremists would find fertile ground to root themselves in power and cultivate feelings of hate towards the west. then came the excessively aggressive behaviour of successive us administrations and the position of drastic sanctions, which only caused further suffering to ordinary iranian people and further aggravated their hostile feelings towards the west. hopefully the new president of the usa, mr obama, who has shown signs that he prefers to fight with his brain rather than with his fists, as the previous president, mr bush, so unsuccessfully did, will give new hope for the improvement of the likes of the iranian people and the betterment of relations with the west. such an approach will help ordinary iranian citizens understand that the west wants to be their friend, not their enemy, and eventually the people of iran will themselves overthrow the islamic fundamentalist regime that so undemocratically controls their lives and causes them so much suffering, as in the case at the centre of our debate here today.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, madagascar, which is a former french colony, seems to be undergoing the sad – but not unusual – post-colonial turmoil in its political life, with the consequent suffering for its people. many other colonies of european countries have suffered – or are still suffering – for the same reason. there are many examples. my own country, cyprus, is one. having partly gained independence from its colonial master, britain, in 1960, british foreign diplomacy hawks managed in 1963 to manipulate an inter-community struggle which eventually resulted in the division of the island in 1974. this is a division that persists today and a state of affairs which suits britain. a divided cyprus cannot successfully attempt to get rid of the remaining two british colonial areas of akrotiri and dhekelia, which britain uses for military purposes, and which the british government has in fact managed to disgracefully keep outside the eu so that the acquis cannot be applied to the thousands of cypriot civilians – now eu citizens – who live there.
author. − madam president, the case of manuel rosales is another example of the arrogance and paranoid behaviour sometimes exhibited by the increasingly more authoritarian government of venezuela. the political persecution of mr rosales and many others is regrettable and should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. we will call on the government of that country in earnest to start behaving sensibly and democratically and to stop violating the human rights of its citizens. madam president, since this is the last time i will be making a speech in the plenary, permit me to take the opportunity to thank you and all our colleagues who have faithfully attended the thursday afternoon human rights debates and have contributed towards making our world a better place to live in. let me also take the opportunity, as i have so often done in the past, to remind my colleagues of the plight of my own country, cyprus, which for the past 35 years has been suffering under the military occupation of its northern part by turkey. the citizens – eu citizens – of areas such as kyrenia, famagusta, karpasia and morfou have been living in exile since the devastating turkish invasion of 1974. we are looking towards the eu for the fulfilment of their humble wish to return to their homes and live there in peace and security. i hope the eu will not let them down.
author. − madam president, after this joint motion for a resolution was agreed and submitted, the news came of yet another disgracefully brutal case of stoning to death of a citizen in iran. therefore we thought it was appropriate to add to paragraph 7 the following: ‘in this context insists that the authorities of islamic republic of iran urgently abolish the practice of stoning; condemns strongly the recent execution by stoning of vali azad, and expresses great concern over the pending execution of mohammad ali navid khamami and ashraf kalhori;’. i understand that this meets with the approval of the other groups’ representatives.
mr president, during the turkish invasion of cyprus in 1974, a turkish journalist photographed 14 cypriot soldiers surrendering to the turkish army. this photograph became the symbol of the search for the fate of the missing persons. the soldiers’ bodies were identified through dna a few weeks ago after they were killed 35 years ago and thrown down a well in the occupied northern part of the island. this demonstrates the blatant violation of the geneva convention by the turkish army, who were responsible for prisoners who surrendered to them. i urge this parliament to call on turkey to cooperate with the un committee on missing persons by providing its records and by opening two recently designated plots in lapithos, called ‘restricted military areas’, where another 800 prisoners are believed to be buried.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the above-mentioned report which includes an increase in loan commitment for programmes aiming at eradicating and tracking animal diseases as well as observing the physical well-being of animals which could present a threat to public health linked to external factors. at the same time, i would like to emphasize my disagreement with the other issues raised in the report, which should not have been included in this report: – the creation of budget item 10 04 04 02 (operation of the high-flux reactor (hfr)); – the creation of budget item 18 05 02 03 (european police); – a reinforcement of the community subsidy to eurojust;– modifications to the establishment plan of olaf, without additional financial provisions.
mr president, the g20 summit on the management of bonuses in no way touches the root of the problem and unfortunately is not a step towards improving the existing system. the series of proposals to amend the regulations is limited to the analysis of surface issues and does not focus on social objectives. the aim should be total financial change, public and social control. a more democratic summit involving all states and addressing issues such as rising unemployment, soaring prices of basic goods and fuel. a meeting which would take substantive decisions on market intervention, with the aim of ending the continuing privatisation and destruction of the welfare state. these are the real needs of the people. the citizens today, mr president, are demanding total structural changes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. − mr president, energy will definitely continue to be the focus of this parliament for the next five years. at the same time, we have made good progress over the last five years in establishing a robust european energy policy with three goals: security of supply, sustainability and competitiveness. in achieving all these goals, the external dimension is extremely important for two reasons. firstly, eu import dependency – currently, 50% of energy resources come from outside the european union, and the trend is upwards. secondly, issues related to sustainability. the climate change goals cannot be achieved anywhere in the world unless energy is produced more cleanly and used more efficiently. for this reason, dialogue with the producer, transit and consumer countries is crucial. the two projects mentioned in today’s plenary are, in a way, complementary and at the same time fit well into the overall strategy. first of all, nabucco. i came from baku yesterday, and we are definitely still on course to fulfil this project. we made a major breakthrough this july. an intergovernmental agreement was signed between four european countries and turkey, which means that we could already take a final investment decision next year with a view to having gas supplies by 2014. we have identified three sources that are ready to commit gas volumes. firstly, there is azerbaijan, where the final investment decision about shah deniz 2 should be made in the very near future, and then there are other fields, in turkmenistan and iraq, which at this stage are the biggest sources of supply. where are the difficulties? there are always difficulties related to the particular way we operate in the energy field and how a lot of producer countries are organised. in the european union, projects are industry-driven, which means that there is always a very clear calculation of all the commercial risks. the countries that have the resources would expect more forward-moving decisions. that means, for example, the eu decides to build a pipeline, it builds a pipeline, and then we commit the gas. the philosophies are different. at the same time there is a clear understanding that eu companies are ready to buy the gas, and we are moving forward towards it. i believe that the transit issue is more or less solved. we are still awaiting the ratification of the intergovernmental agreement, but i would not expect too many difficulties. also, to facilitate buying gas from regions that have particular ways of selling gas, we are developing the concept of a ‘caspian development corporation’ that would allow for reduced risks for companies buying gas, for example at the turkmen border, or investing in areas where the political and economic risks are quite substantial. we are well on track, and i believe this is a good example of cooperation between industry-driven projects with political support from the eu institutions. we have also committed some funds for the southern corridor and particularly for the nabucco project. we have launched a call for proposals. at this stage i cannot say whether this was successful or good enough but at least the invitation was made. desertec is also an industry-driven initiative that is currently at an initial stage. it sounds very interesting that we use the solar energy potential of africa and transport it to the european union, but we need some flanking measures for this project to materialise. first of all, there is the technological development that we have supported for many years. a large concentrated solar power plant will be inaugurated this month in seville. this is one technology that could be used for this desertec project, and i believe that we would not have advanced so far in this technology without eu support. secondly, we need to work with partners because it is very clear that we cannot just say we will take your territory, we will put solar panels in and transport electricity to the european union. there should be common ownership of these projects, if they are to happen at all. for this reason we will have a conference in october on using renewable sources together with countries from the mediterranean and the gulf. it is clear that for desertec to be successful we need common ownership of these projects, otherwise there will be no successful outcome. last but not least, there is definitely the issue of interconnection. there are two types of interconnection that we need to separate. one relates to the philosophy and markets. we have supported the integration of markets in north africa for some time. progress has been made, but we need to strengthen these measures. the second type is physical interconnection with the european union, using cables. i believe that desertec will come step by step. it will not be one big project but i believe there will be elements that could ultimately fit our objectives: clean energy for the countries involved and additional exports to the european union. we have also provided for commercial incentives. with the renewable energy directive we have established the possibility for eu countries to invest in third countries and transport electricity to the european union, and then the goal will also be fulfilled with energy produced in the third country. that said, it is definitely difficult at this stage to give any timetable for desertec. it is a new initiative, which is still in its infancy, and we cannot say desertec is part of our security of supply strategy. it is a promising move towards a climate change strategy that we need to promote, but nabucco is there for security of supply, and it is too early at this stage to rely on desertec. i would like to conclude that the best security of supply measures we can take are inside the european union. this house has been a very strong supporter of energy efficiency. energy efficiency is not only to do with climate change. it really is a very important element in the security of supply. i would say it is more important than desertec and nabucco, plus even south stream and nord stream, combined. it really is the biggest element. three legal instruments are being discussed with the council, and i would emphasise that we need to be ambitious and successful with these. on renewable energy, i am very grateful for the support of this house for the recovery plan, and i am quite positive regarding what i have heard about the applications for offshore wind energy. it seems that all the funds that were committed to support offshore wind energy will be committed. this is not only eu money because the overall envelope was roughly eur 600 million, but the overall size of this project is eur 4 billion, so industry is investing most of it. i believe this is a very good combination, as renewable energy also gives security of supply. last but not least, i know that sometimes there is an issue about carbon capture and storage (ccs). ccs is usually needed for two reasons. one is as a global response to climate change but, from another point of view, we will also use coal and lignite for our security of supply. there has also been very good progress on applications for the financing provided with the recovery plan, so the recovery plan was successful, in my opinion. after announcing the results, we – the commission, the council and parliament – definitely need to review how to channel eu funds to strengthen the european union's security of supply. many other steps will also definitely need to be taken to strengthen the security of supply of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we all agree to speak with one voice and have a common foreign policy on the security of energy supply. it is acknowledged that the energy mix and energy supply differs among member states according to geography and other distinct factors. so, diversification also covers supply. a diversified and interconnected network can, if appropriately redirected, one day become the security of supply for all. we support the need for a southern corridor, and nabucco is a common european project. however, questions need to be answered on the recent agreement between mr putin and turkey, on the quantity of gas from azerbaijan vis-à-vis the investment, on gazprom’s offer to buy all azerbaijan’s exports, on the stability of iraqi supply, and on the russian promise to pump double the amount through south stream. the energy dialogue with russia is a necessity based on the pragmatic and equitable principle of security of supply and security of demand. all other geopolitical considerations must be set aside. on solidarity, we need tangible plans for emergencies, such as storage and new lng technology. cyprus, for example, invests half a billion euro on lng, and i regret that the union assists with only eur 10 million.
mr president, last month i informed the plenary of the discovery of the remains of cypriot soldiers who, during the invasion of 1974, were photographed surrendering to the turkish army, alive and well. in a new development, the european court of human rights has found turkey guilty of cruel and inhumane behaviour towards the relatives of missing soldiers of that period by failing to investigate and inform the relatives about their fate. turkey was ordered to pay compensation in this regard. i call again on this parliament to urge the turkish army to provide its records to the un committee on missing persons for the resolution of this humanitarian issue.
the commission proposal, mr president, aims to strengthen the role of the schengen evaluation group by making this mechanism more efficient and more transparent, so as to ensure the effective and consistent application of the schengen acquis. it is a curious fact that, despite the freedom of movement within the union, it is at the same time pushing for the simultaneous establishment of a system which is far from meeting all the procedures for respecting human rights. the difficulty in assessing the application of the schengen acquis lies precisely in the difficulty we have in accepting that it provides for the exchange of sensitive personal data, the 'facillum' and repressive mechanisms which have been created under the pretext of protection and free movement in the european area. the commission should think about this. the abolition of internal border controls required a number of compensatory measures aimed at strengthening external border controls and police, customs and judicial cooperation. it also concerned, and is concerned, with the continuing exchange of information and the use of biometric visas for entry into the union. we believe that any evaluation must take account of the correctness of all the measures taken and not just check their implementation. we cannot in any way support a proposal which, if adopted, would give further legitimacy and permanence to repressive measures, mainly through mechanisms for their evaluation.
in writing. we support the joint resolution, but we disagree with the suggestion that the commission should draw up a proposal for a directive on media concentration and the protection of pluralism, as we believe that this responsibility, for such a serious and necessary issue, should be left to the member states.
member of the commission. - i'm glad to have the opportunity to talk to you about georgia today. less than a year after the armed conflict with russia, georgia is facing multiple challenges of direct concern to the european union and we must give this country our full attention. the report of the independent international fact-finding mission on the conflict in georgia, chaired by the swiss ambassador, heidi tagliavini, was drawn up at the request of the european union by council decision, but is entirely independent and the european union was not involved in its drafting process or in its content. so i won't go into the details of the results of that. we believe that the report has achieved its main objective, which is to provide clarification on the events that took place in august 2008 and the main causes of the conflict. the report makes clear that, as is often the case in conflict situations, the fault is not with one side alone. both georgia and russia are being criticized for their actions. another lesson drawn from the report is the need for faster and more decisive action by the international community in highly tense situations that may escalate into violence. the european union is firmly committed to georgia's territorial integrity and we should now focus our efforts on avoiding future conflict and on peacefully resolving the tensions that persist, as this is the only way to long-term prosperity and stability in the region. ladies and gentlemen, the war has left a deep mark on georgians and the country continues to face fundamental problems, such as the basic needs of thousands of displaced people. i am therefore pleased to report that the implementation of the post-conflict assistance package, which was drawn up by the european commission with the support of the member states and other parties, is working well. as you know, the european commission's package provides assistance of up to €500 million for the period 2008-2010. among other things, the package focuses on the needs of internally displaced persons and on economic measures to generate economic growth and stimulate job creation. in addition, the european commission proposed that georgia receive macro-financial assistance of €46 million to help the country overcome the impact of the financial and economic crisis. today, the eu monitoring mission in georgia remains the only international presence monitoring the situation in that country. this mission is vital, but we still want to see it spread throughout the territory. the geneva talks, co-chaired by the european union, the osce and the un, provide the only opportunity for political dialogue with all partners. we will continue to make efforts to have constructive discussions that lead to concrete results. the working group on internally displaced persons and humanitarian issues, co-chaired by the european commission and icenur, is currently discussing a set of measures to be agreed on the return of refugees, internally displaced persons and other displaced persons, while in both abkhazia and south ossetia the two incident prevention and response mechanisms are producing some positive results in reducing incidents and facilitating border crossings by the persons concerned. in view of the recent past, it is important to strengthen stability, security and prosperity in georgia. the need for economic and political reform in this country is greater than ever. the eastern partnership, launched in prague in may, is an important framework for strengthening our support to georgia, both bilaterally and through multilateral cooperation with other partners in the region. a key element is the proposal to establish strengthened political and trade relations. in line with the eastern partnership, the september foreign relations council agreed that negotiating directives for new agreements should be prepared for all three south caucasus countries, including georgia. in addition to strengthening our political relations, we will propose that the new agreement with georgia include the creation of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. it is important to mention that such an area would ensure the gradual alignment of the georgian economy to the union's internal market. the eu has also committed to supporting the implementation of the reforms in georgia, including the implementation of the reforms in the field of the environment. negotiations on the deep and comprehensive free trade area will only start once the necessary conditions have been met. let me add that, as regards the relationship with georgia, our efforts to intensify people-to-people contacts are progressing. the commission has concluded negotiations on a visa facilitation and readmission agreement, the text of which is currently before the council. we hope that the procedures can be completed as soon as possible. ladies and gentlemen, i think we can all agree that georgia is a vital component of our neighborhood. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we remain committed to this country to help it address the multiple challenges it faces, particularly in continuing its reform agenda. as georgia makes real progress in implementing political and economic reforms, the union's relations with georgia will become deeper and closer.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first of all we take note of the report just given to us on the independent fact-finding mission. it is very difficult in circumstances like these to say who started things and who followed. what is important is that the facts remain on the ground a year after this conflict, and that they violate a number of principles which the european union has to support. first, as you said mr commissioner, there is the principle of support for the territorial integrity of georgia. all our diplomatic and other actions should never encourage udis or separatisms. faits accomplis created by the use of force are not acceptable and can never be acceptable. secondly, there is the right of displaced persons to return to their homes and properties: the basic freedom of movement, as you said, to cross the dividing lines. ownership of property and settlement should be at the centre of our policies and initiatives need to be undertaken to address these humanitarian and human rights issues independently of the outcome of any political settlement. thirdly, the hostilities in south ossetia have proven that there is no such thing as a frozen conflict. the term frozen has a notion of appeasement. a lack of interest on the part of the international community may lead to chronicity and an unsettled conflict is a potential threat to peace and stability. one year after the conflict, i underline once more the successful role of the european union and the french presidency in achieving a speedy ceasefire and the mission which monitors it. the presence of european monitors is a guarantee that no side can claim from now on arbitrarily that the other has started hostilities. efforts now should be diverted towards a political settlement, however difficult this is, and the political negotiations launched in geneva immediately after the hostilities should be encouraged to continue. we support the efforts for a new association agreement, under the framework of the eastern partnership, which goes beyond opportunities for trade and investment. we also support an agreement to facilitate the procedures for issuing short-stay visas and on readmission between the european community and georgia, and we are satisfied with the post-conflict assistance package, which is operating well.
mr president, i asked for the floor simply to make a comment on the suggestion to suspend the existing eu-guinea fisheries protocol. i doubt whether a brutal regime which does not hesitate to dispense with the lives of 156 of its citizens and is responsible for so many other atrocities will be moved by such a disproportionately small sanction on that issue. we should also bear in mind that there are legal obligations regarding this agreement towards people employed in the fishing industry in guinea, who have nothing to do with the brutal regime. that is why the epp is hesitant to support this suggestion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the ppe group does not agree with the change to the name that was on the agenda regarding honduras, and disagrees with the suggestion that the title referring to the 29 november elections be deleted. the date of the elections is an extremely important part of the whole debate, and we consider that it should remain as it was.
madam president, i have asked for the floor today to inform you of a rather disturbing fact that has come to my knowledge whilst on a visit to washington dc as part of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs delegation. on the margins of the current transatlantic negotiations on data protection (swift, pnr), the united states is expanding its national security agency data-collection facilities so as to intercept every electronic message within its territory as well as all messages coming in and out of the country. how can the us pretend to respect the right to privacy when it is building an enormous eavesdropping agency – and how can we just sit to one side and let that happen? it is our responsibility to raise awareness of this gross abuse of power and violation of our basic rights. i hope you will join me in informing our voters and the citizens in our countries about this through declarations and articles to the press.
mr president, for some months now we have been talking about the need to strike the right balance between maintaining security and defending the individual rights of citizens, stressing that the citizen must be at the centre of the stockholm programme. however, the european union is adopting and implementing measures which upset the balance of rights and security, which lead to the creation of surveillance bodies, the collection of all kinds of personal data and the violation of our dignity, since we are all being turned into suspects. in addition, it is unacceptable that immigrants are treated as criminals and potential terrorists. we are opposed to the motion for a resolution because it lays the foundations for building a modern european 'panopticon' where, like the prison designed by jeremy bentham, everyone's actions are constantly monitored without the prisoners being aware of the extent of this surveillance, giving them the illusion that they have a private life.
mr president, the next council has a big issue before it, and that is the enlargement issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we, as cyprus, and my party - and i want to say this very clearly to the european parliament - are very clearly in favour of turkey's accession to the european union. we will not tire of repeating that this accession cannot be achieved unless turkey, like all the previous countries that have joined, fulfils the commitments it has made both to cyprus and to the european union. the european union is also taking steps to ensure that the european union's external relations are not affected by the crisis in cyprus. this victory will push the european union to take its place in the modern world. but we have to bring the truth back to the table. and the truth is that turkey occupies half of cyprus with 40,000 troops - supposedly - to protect 80,000 turkish cypriots. this is equivalent to two turkish soldiers outside every turkish cypriot home. i don't know which mep has that kind of security. we are therefore talking about the isolation of the turkish cypriots and we are strongly in favour of lifting the isolation of the turkish cypriots imposed by the occupying army. in conclusion, i would point out that, while supporting turkey's accession, cyprus cannot agree to the opening of the energy capital if turkey does not implement its commitments towards the european union and cyprus, if it does not remove the obstacles it places on the republic of cyprus in its attempt to explore its economic space.
madam president, my reference is to the management of turkish interests which, in my view, is being carried out to the detriment of the interests of the republic of cyprus. i am disappointed that issues concerning the republic of cyprus are being played down, and that possible issues for which turkey should have been condemned are now being used to improve turkey's position in relation to its accession to the european union. since 2006, turkey has committed itself to recognise the republic of cyprus, to implement the ankara protocol and to help resolve the cyprus problem. he hasn't done anything. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i hope that the council will accept it. but you understand that the republic of cyprus as a small state must look after its own interests and seek sanctions against turkey. and one of them is certainly to prevent the opening of capital.
in writing. the attitude towards turkey is a major issue to be discussed in the context of enlargement policy at the european council in december. we support full membership as this objective should be the driving force for reform and policy change on important issues. we note that turkey continues to fail to comply with its contractual obligations towards the eu and all member states. it must immediately proceed to fulfil its commitments. otherwise, it cannot pass the december review untouched. the commitments, on which the milestone will be assessed, are set out in the december 2006 conclusions. they include the implementation of the additional protocol, the normalisation of bilateral relations and the recognition of the republic of cyprus, as well as its constructive stance towards the process of resolving the cyprus problem. it is absurd that turkey, while seeking to join and play a regulatory role in the region, should continue to violate international law and the principles on which the eu is founded by maintaining occupying troops in a member state. finally, the energy chapter cannot be opened while turkey is preventing the republic of cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone.
mr president, i do not understand the reaction from our esteemed colleagues on my right-hand side in this hemicycle on the choice of subjects that we are debating today. i do not understand why it is not urgent to take the floor, discussing the issue of the treatment of one of the members of this parliament who has visited a country exercising his right as president of liberal international. i do not understand why we cannot take the floor and speak about this issue and also speak about this new tendency in latin america to try to change arbitrarily the constitution of the country and stop a tradition that has always existed concerning one or two terms of office of the head of state in that country. already our esteemed friends here have talked about four other subjects, and i would like to know when we are going to discuss the matter at hand, given that there are only three subjects on the agenda. (the president cut off the speaker.)
mr president, we do not agree with the political orientation of this budget, because it increases military spending and because it firmly and persistently merges its policy with that of nato. this effectively permanently excludes the possibility of an independent foreign policy of the european union. the five-year financial framework reduces rural spending while failing to support household savings, cohesion and the fight for climate conservation. we want a european union which protects consumers by legislation against profiteering and citizens against the prying eyes of the authorities. we've all already turned into a priori suspects. i want to make something clear. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe in the interconnection of peoples' interests and we do not accept that it is right for each people to close in on itself. this only leads to enmity and eventually to conflict.
acting president of the council. - mr president! - what is it? the conflict in the middle east was one of the issues we discussed here in parliament at the very beginning of the swedish presidency. it feels good to be able to come back to you and give a report like this at the end of the semester. the foreign minister carl bildt was also on the foreign affairs committee last week, reporting to it and having long discussions, including on the middle east. last week the foreign affairs council discussed the situation in the middle east and adopted conclusions. we are pleased that all 27 member states support these conclusions, which clearly demonstrate the eu's position on the middle east peace process. with these conclusions, the council and the presidency wish to send a very clear and strong european message which we hope will lead to a swift resumption of negotiations between the parties. we are concerned about the lack of progress in the middle east peace process. that is why we have made clear our support for the united states' efforts to achieve peace. the eu calls on the parties to assume their responsibilities and to open negotiations on all status issues, including jerusalem, borders, refugees and security. our conclusions also reflect the eu's longstanding position on the middle east, which is based on international law and has been expressed on several occasions. the eu's position is that a negotiated two-state solution should be based on the 1967 borders and that the settlements are illegal. jerusalem is a 'final status issue' and we have made it clear that if real peace is to be achieved, the status of jerusalem as the future capital of two states must be resolved through negotiations. the resumption of israeli-palestinian negotiations was for much of the year linked to the settlement issue. recently the israeli government announced a partial and temporary freeze on settlements. the foreign affairs council welcomes that decision and we hope that it will contribute to the resumption of meaningful negotiations. however, we note with concern the surprising decision of the government of israel on 13 december to make the settlements part of the 'national priority areas' programme for the first time. it goes against the spirit of the settlement freeze and damages efforts to create an atmosphere which could contribute to a lasting solution to the conflict. my colleague, minister for aid gunilla carlsson, visited the european parliament's committee on development at the beginning of september. she promised to follow developments on the ground, to provide assistance and to intervene in areas that we all know about - the situation in and around east jerusalem, the settlements and issues such as access and mobility, particularly in relation to gaza. that promise we have kept. in recent months, the eu, under the presidency, has taken a clear stance on the settlements and the continued closure of gaza. the policy of shutting down is unacceptable and counterproductive. the eu remains committed to the immediate and unconditional opening of border crossings for humanitarian aid, goods and persons. the council also called for the full implementation of un security council resolution 1860 and for respect for international humanitarian law. those who are holding the kidnapped israeli soldier gilad shalit must release him immediately. a few more words about gaza: we hope, of course, that the mediation efforts of egypt and the arab league can continue. it is essential to prevent a permanent division between the west bank, with east jerusalem on the one hand, and gaza on the other. we look forward to free and fair elections when the circumstances permit. one thing is clear: peace between israel and the palestinians can only be achieved if the palestinians are united. our diplomats on the ground have been monitoring the situation in east jerusalem closely. in their view, israel is weakening the palestinian population in the city. this is disturbing. the eu will step up its assistance to east jerusalem to improve the living conditions of the palestinians. the strong message on east jerusalem in the council conclusions is clear evidence of our concern about the situation. it is important to remember that a solution between israel and syria and between israel and lebanon is a prerequisite for peace in the middle east. the eu welcomes the recent statements by israel and syria confirming their willingness to move the peace process forward. it goes without saying that this would have extremely positive repercussions for the whole region.
vice-president designate of the commission. − mr president, the council adopted very substantive conclusions on the middle east peace process last week. these set out a principled position on a number of crucial issues in a clear and determined manner. i will not dwell on the conclusions or repeat what the presidency has said. suffice to say that in reaffirming our principles i hope we may have helped restore some palestinian confidence and willingness to enter into the peace process. the conclusions, of course, will also be of great help to me, in providing me with a clear steer for the months to come. you have invited me here today to talk about our political work, but also about the situation in east jerusalem. this is an area of deep concern. east jerusalem is occupied territory, together with the rest of the west bank. the eu is opposed to the demolition of palestinian homes, the eviction of palestinian families, the construction of israeli settlements and the route of the ‘separation barrier’. the eu is addressing these issues at political level, through diplomatic channels and in our public statements. we are also addressing the situation through practical assistance, aimed at supporting the palestinian population in east jerusalem. for example, there is a lack of 1 200 classrooms for palestinian children in the city, so we are helping to reinforce education facilities. in addition we enable palestinian hospitals in east jerusalem to remain viable and we do a lot of work with palestinian young people in the city, who suffer from high rates of unemployment and psychological problems. to date in east jerusalem the eu is implementing activities costing eur 4.6 million. another aspect of concern, of course, is the situation in gaza. we have consistently called for the flow of aid, trade and persons. we are deeply concerned about the daily living conditions of the gazan people: since the january conflict, donors have not been able to do reconstruction work and serious issues persist like the lack of clean drinking water. israel should reopen the crossings without delay, which would allow a revival of the private sector and a reduction of gaza’s aid dependency. it is now time to move to action and put the council conclusions into practice. we now need to think about how we can re-engage a political process. the two sides appear to have strayed further apart, in terms of engaging on an end game. i will be travelling to the region shortly and my main objective will be to meet the main actors and see first hand how the eu can be a force for change. i believe we all agree with the overall and overriding priority of a resumption of israeli-palestinian negotiations – not negotiations for negotiations’ sake, but negotiations to achieve a peace deal and turn the page. we cannot – nor, i doubt, can the region – tolerate another round of fruitless negotiations. negotiations have taken place on and off for several years starting with the oslo declaration of principles signed in september 1993. that was 16 years ago. negotiations should be based on international law and respect previous agreements. all issues should be on the table including the status of jerusalem as the future shared capital. they should also take place within an agreed time-frame with effective mediation. we need to see a serious commitment and the political will from both israel and palestine to engage in serious and genuine negotiations. the european union is there to help both parties take that engagement and offer them support on the difficult road of negotiations. i am here to make sure europe works effectively and harmoniously. the eu has consistently supported both israel and the palestinians by giving them the time and space to negotiate bilaterally. our assistance has enabled the palestinian authority to build the institutions of the future state of palestine, so that it can deliver services to its people and be a reliable neighbour in the region. today, however, the palestinians are divided both politically and physically. credible negotiations require a strong and united palestinian partner. israel stands to gain, not lose, from a strong palestinian partner. israel has taken a first step with its temporary and partial settlement freeze. we hope this will contribute towards a resumption of meaningful negotiations. the us remains an indispensable and crucial actor in the middle east. conditions for an effective eu-us partnership on the middle east have rarely been as good. it is time to turn this into a reality by closely coordinating our positions and strategy. the eu will continue to support and work closely with the us via the quartet. the quartet needs reinvigoration – the current stalemate in the peace process demands it. the quartet can provide the careful yet dynamic mediation that is required. peace in the middle east requires a comprehensive solution. both syria and lebanon have an important role to play. we look forward to the implementation of the arab peace initiative. they should be part of the solution. our approach should be regional and inclusive. a multilateral framework should complement the israeli-palestinian bilateral framework. in the coming months, i intend to remain in close contact with parliament on all these issues. i am aware of the active role parliament plays, not least in its capacity as budgetary authority. at political level, the ep delegations work directly with the israeli knesset and the palestinian legislative council (plc). last week the delegation to the plc visited the occupied palestinian territories and reported with great concern on the situation on the ground. finally, i welcome the continuation of parliament’s working group on the peace process, which will meet again this week.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, during a visit of young israeli and palestinian leaders to the european parliament, a thorough discussion was held which outlined a peace settlement for their future – a secure and recognised two-state solution, on the basis of the 1967 borders, with jerusalem as the capital for both; demilitarisation of the palestinian state; the reiteration of the 2007 arab peace initiative; nato guarantees; and the refugee issue to be arranged in a way that does not alter the demographic character of the hebrew state. while the young have a vision of a common future, their seniors still argue about whether they should begin negotiations. the egyptian initiative for inter-palestinian reconciliation – so that there is one interlocutor – is still pondering and the security arrangement in gaza, with the liberation of prisoners, such as gilad shalit, is still awaited. in the meantime, the faits accomplis on the ground, according to the report by the eu head of mission in east jerusalem, renders the palestinian state less and less viable. i regret the fact that israel, a democratic country, pays little attention to the damage some of its actions create through the eyes of the international public opinion and limits itself to damage limitation only afterwards.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, madam high representative, we welcome the decision of the council of the european union of 8 december. it reaffirms the european union's support for the creation of two states based on the 1967 borders. however, based on the experience of our recent visit to the area, the situation in the territories makes the establishment of a palestinian state almost impossible. i am referring specifically to the building of the wall, the demolition of palestinian homes but above all to the creation of settlements in the wider west bank and particularly around east jerusalem. today, some 500,000 settlers live in these settlements. in east jerusalem in particular, there is an attempt to create a noose by building settlements around the city in order to force palestinians to leave their homes. it is now clear that the israeli government is using the talks to buy time. slowly but surely it is seeking to impose its domination over the entire palestinian territory. the european union should not only adhere to the two-state solution, but also take concrete measures against israel. the continuing violation of human rights is a suitable condition for the european union to impose sanctions on the basis of article 2 of the treaty, because if it chooses to support the achievement of peace but continues to upgrade economic relations with israel without any restrictions, it only serves the israeli policy of forcing the palestinians to leave their land and extending israeli sovereignty over the whole of palestine.
acting president of the council. - madam president! - what is it? the problems facing afghanistan and pakistan are of course of concern to the whole world. violent extremism is spreading outside the region. drugs grown and produced in afghanistan find their way onto the streets of europe. the first reason for our commitment is the need to prevent afghanistan and pakistan from becoming safe havens for terrorist and criminal activities. at the same time, we want to help create a better country for the people of afghanistan and pakistan to live in. a lot of attention is being paid to afghanistan. many of our countries have troops and a significant civilian presence in the country. turning afghanistan around is a very big challenge. pakistan also faces difficult challenges. there will be no solution to the conflict in afghanistan unless we also address the situation in pakistan, and vice versa. it's a whole-of-the-bodies approach. we all have to do more and better. in june, the council invited the council secretariat and the commission to make concrete recommendations and political priorities to strengthen and improve our engagement in the region. the result was the eu action plan for a strengthened eu presence in afghanistan and pakistan. it was adopted in october. i think this action plan is a good tool. the basic strategy is already in place. the action plan aligns the instruments we use with our political priorities. the plan builds on our current commitment and sets out a series of priorities. these are areas where we believe eu action can be most effective. we are thus strengthening our engagement and providing a unified response to the challenges facing afghanistan and pakistan. we're also sending a message to the region that we're resilient. there is a regional perspective which is important, and that is why the action plan places a great deal of emphasis on regional cooperation. afghanistan is entering a crucial period now. we don't need to talk about the election process anymore. it's behind us. it was flawed and we hope it will not be repeated. i think that is also the opinion of the afghan people. the eu stands ready to support the work that now remains, including on the basis of the recommendations of the eu eom. a new government will hopefully be in place soon. it is an opportunity to agree on a new agenda and a new agreement between the afghan government and the international community. president karzai's inauguration speech was a welcome promise of such a new beginning. the conference which will soon take place in london will hopefully provide a momentum. the eu expects strong commitment and leadership from president karzai and his government. five years without change is not an option. the focus now needs to be on ensuring that the afghan state gradually takes over responsibility and that the international community takes on a supportive role. by that i do not mean a withdrawal. next year, there will be significantly more international forces in afghanistan. the united states is sending an additional force of 30,000 men to the 68,000 already in the country. other nato countries and allies have pledged an additional force of at least 7,000 personnel on top of the 38,000 already on the ground. this military commitment must be matched by civilian efforts. there will be no sustainable military withdrawal from afghanistan unless there is a civilian framework for stability. effective state institutions, better governance, access to basic welfare, justice and the rule of law are at least as important as stronger security. no one is disputing that. security, good governance and development must go hand in hand. we are committed to afghanistan for the long term. but the afghan people must ensure that it is their own government, not international organisations, that brings about an improvement in living conditions. it's the only way for the people to regain their trust in their leaders. the international community is there. we're gonna have to do more and better. we must support the process that is under way, the process of afghanisation which is so necessary for the country. this is the core of our action plan. we are strengthening our eu efforts to improve afghan capacity and are working with the government to promote effective and accountable government institutions. this applies at local and regional level. we attach great importance to the rule of law, good governance, the fight against corruption and the improvement of the human rights situation. agriculture and rural development are also a major european priority. improving the standard of living of the vast majority of rural afghans is very important. we are also prepared to support an afghan-style reintegration process for insurgents. those who have been in combat must be offered alternatives. of course, support for the electoral system will also be high on the agenda. i also want to say a few words about pakistan. the country has undergone important changes in recent years. with those elections in 2008, democracy and civilian rule were restored. the transition to democracy has been impressive. but it's fragile and unstable. at the same time, the pakistani taliban have become a real threat to peace and stability in the country. barely a week goes by without the media reporting on further suicide attacks. in the past week, more than 400 people have been killed in attacks carried out by militant groups. the eu is willing to help support the civil institutions in pakistan. it is particularly important to follow the recommendations made by michael gahler, our 2008 election observer. it provides the basic framework for future democracy, electoral reform and institution building. the pakistani government knows that this must be done. they must tell us in what areas they wish to cooperate. the eu will develop the strategic partnership with pakistan which is the result of a successful special summit in june 2009. we want to strengthen democracy and achieve stability. that is why we are working on the rule of law, the fight against terrorism and trade. a key element, of course, is a functioning government that takes responsibility for its people and shows the leadership needed to move the country forward. in partnership with the government of pakistan, the eu will support the strengthening of democratic institutions and structures. it also happens through economic development and trade. we welcome pakistan's taking greater responsibility for its own security. we also expect it to adopt the same approach to all forms of terrorism, including insurgents who use pakistani territory for attacks inside afghanistan. the government's work against the pakistani taliban is positive. at the same time, civilians must be protected and international law must be respected. the government should also be attentive to the need for humanitarian assistance and reconstruction in the affected areas. we must take further steps in our efforts in afghanistan and pakistan. the eu is already strongly engaged in the challenges facing the region and will continue to do so. much has been achieved in both countries. both through the efforts of afghanistan and pakistan and through the international community. strategies and documents alone will not improve the situation but now is the time to turn this into real action together with our partners in afghanistan and pakistan.
vice-president designate of the commission. − let me start with afghanistan. we are at an important point in our relations here. our future support must help build a government that is responsive to the needs and the concerns of the afghan people. as the situation is volatile, we need to both work with, and to influence, the situation on the ground. that is what the international conferences, which begin with a conference in london next month, are all about. we are ready to put in more resources. the commission is raising its development assistance by one third to eur 200 million. we need these extra resources to repeat the successes, like the extension of the primary healthcare system to 80% of afghans – including far better treatment for women and girls – and recent success in turning provinces poppy free. our member states have also committed to help get our police training programme up to strength. but that is all just the start. we need to deliver this as part of a coherent eu contribution within a coordinated international response. this response must have the afghans working with the un at the centre of it. the action plan agreed by the council in october gives us the opportunity to do this. together with the us efforts and nato security operations, it sends a strong message to the region and international community about our commitment. it also, of course, dovetails the priorities set out by president karzai, particularly in the fields of improved governance and anti-corruption. the plan confirms that we will continue to place key sectors such as the rule of law and agriculture at the centre of our engagement. we are already assisting the government to improve the skills of administrators in kabul. we will now start to roll these skills out across the provinces to help the afghan people manage their own affairs and ensure the government provides – and is seen to provide – services to them. the plan sends a message that we will support the integration of insurgents who are ready to respond to president karzai’s call to work with his government. the european electoral observation mission also presents its report in kabul today and i would like to pay tribute to mr berman and his team for a job well done in extremely difficult circumstances. we will ensure follow up, since it is clear the credibility of the government and the political system rests upon a major overhaul of the electoral system. finally on afghanistan, but perhaps most importantly, we are streamlining our structures on the ground. member states will align policies with the resources to back them, and i hope to merge the eu special representative and the head of the eu delegation into a single post as soon as possible. that will help us to build a coherent approach that can serve as a model for elsewhere. turning to pakistan, our overriding concern and interest is that pakistan should be a stable democracy free from terror and able to join with its neighbours in defence against common threats. the action plan underlines this and builds on existing commitments made at the june eu-pakistan summit, including humanitarian aid, reconstruction support, assistance to the police and judiciary and strengthening democratic institutions and civil society to improve human rights, as well as agreements on trade and socio-economic development. we will continue to support the implementation of the recommendations of the 2008 election observation mission. the action plan is backed up by a substantial financial resource of just under eur 500 million from the commission until 2013, plus a eur 100 million renewable energy loan from the european investment bank, as well as commitments to deepen our trade and political relations. the action plan also specifies intensified dialogue on all these issues and there should be a second summit next year within the spanish presidency. the action plan also makes clear that the european union will use its expertise in regional integration to help afghanistan, pakistan and their neighbours to kick-start economic relations, particularly with india. there will be no overnight solution to current tensions but we must make a start to overcoming distrust. the potential gains from this kind of regional cooperation in terms of trade and investment would dwarf anything we can do as the european union. in conclusion, implementation of the plan for afghanistan and pakistan is central to our future engagement in these countries. it is a joint endeavour between member states and the eu institutions and it is the first of its kind, which, if successful, can help shape the international civilian response to crises that have so far largely been defined in military terms. the action plan amounts to a major commitment not only to afghanistan and pakistan, but to south and central asia as a whole. but we need more than ideas to deliver: we need the right people and the right skills, and they need security in order to work. there must be stronger political engagement by the host governments, and stronger coherence among donors including internally among member states. south asia faces extremism every day, whether on the battlefield in helmand or on the streets of peshawar, lahore and rawalpindi. we will not tackle this through military action alone but by helping build a secure and safe environment free from the tensions and inequalities that feed extremism. europe has much to offer from our own experience. the action plan provides us with the opportunity to use this experience to help others, and i hope parliament will support it.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the goal in afghanistan was to fight the taliban, who offered a safe haven to al-qa’ida. afghanistan is no longer a safe haven but the taliban insurgency has not been defeated because it was proven that victory cannot be achieved by military means alone and that over-reliance on military power by killing insurgents was counterproductive. the shift in strategy is for the protection of the population, building the afghan security capacity, facilitating good governance at central, and particularly local, level, and promoting development. in this context, encouragement is needed for an afghan-led reconciliation process for those layers of taliban who got on the wrong side due to special circumstances. the eu action plan addresses all these challenges, and the eu can play an important role in non-military areas. however, i would have expected much more emphasis on the issue of narcotics – you mentioned it, minister – and tougher words of warning on corruption and bad governance. as for pakistan: ‘yes’ to the action plan. both cases are interconnected, and success on either depends on success on both. pakistan should be in a position to adequately fight the influx of insurgents from afghanistan. finally, diplomacy is needed to avoid the eternal mistrust between india and pakistan becoming an impediment to overall success.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and parliament. the current international financial crisis has shown its teeth. it has caused a lot of inequalities and pressures, particularly on vulnerable groups. it has increased unemployment, inequality and social disorder at national and regional levels. the current international economic crisis, however, also poses a challenge. there is an urgent need to strengthen community solidarity, to have a proper and integrated european regional cohesion policy, which sets high priorities, ensures proper infrastructure and closer crossborder cooperation through the exchange of good practice. we say no to discrimination, no to renationalization, no to bureaucracy, no to opacity, no to the secret allocation of funds and to the abolition of objective 2, which will affect southern europe and the mediterranean. we say yes to the fair distribution of community resources, to the involvement of local authorities, to the support of small and mediumsized enterprises, to the right reforms that must be made to ensure that there is proper funding for actions that are in line with the europe 2020 objectives. finally, we say yes to the special treatment of remote areas, particularly in southern europe and the mediterranean.
