mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bernd posselt, who is here for the bavarian csu party but also heads the association of displaced sudeten germans, has proposed that the czech republic should, during its presidency, terminate the so-called beneš decrees. this is a formidable and unattainable challenge for the czech republic. we know that the decrees were created after world war ii in accordance with the attitude of the victorious powers and replaced the legal norms until the election of a proper parliament. it is not, therefore, a cancer in the european parliamentary order, as he said. i think that mr posselt's association is a cancer, and that it is in direct contradiction with the objectives of modern european integration pursued by the eu. while mr posselt is attacking the czech republic, thousands of german citizens are living and working there happily, and there are also a large number of retired former sudeten germans. i myself am an example of the fact that there is no aggression against germans in the czech republic today. as a german citizen, i was elected to this parliament for the czech republic.
happy new year, mr. chairman. i am therefore very pleased that the czech government has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of checks and balances in the budget. after all, she's also been putting off energy security talks with russia. i am even more shocked by the european commission's attitude. it is threatening slovakia and bulgaria with sanctions, and we have even heard mr cohn-bendit recommend that they do so if they restart the decommissioned nuclear power stations. i would urge the commissioners and the spokesman of the european commission to put on their good clothes, turn off the heating at home and explain to their families that they stand in solidarity with the slovaks and bulgarians. or was it a bad new year's joke?
thank you, madam president, i have recently been interested to learn that some czech insurance companies have abolished the bonuses they gave women when they took out insurance for the compulsory liability of passenger cars. this was justified by the preparation for the entry into force of the anti-discrimination act. we do see time and again that some politicians and ngos are exaggerating their positions on gender equality. one of those exaggerations is the denial of insurance mathematics, which proves, day in and day out, that women and men behave differently in different aspects of their lives, and therefore bear different insurance and other risks. the denial of these differences is not a fight for equal rights, but a fight for equality, equality of the sexes. such a fight is lost in advance and ridiculous. men and women differ from each other precisely so that both sexes complement each other in practical life, in partnership relationships, and in society in a useful and beneficial way.
as a doctor, i feel that it is our duty to the european consumer to eliminate dangerous herbal medicines on the basis of scientific knowledge. at the same time, i appreciate that the rapporteurs have managed to find a balanced solution to the new regulation by motivating the industry to seek and develop alternative, safer pesticides. until then, we need to make the exceptions that the wet countries need, and the southern countries just need to understand that. i insist that the member states, but also the commission, must be rigorous and uncompromising in checking that foodstuffs and flowers imported to us from outside the european union have not been treated with banned pesticides and fungicides. it is not just about assessing the level of residues in food. we must not allow such unequal competition for european farmers. i also join those who criticise the fact that the european commission has not carried out an impact assessment, and that unfortunately we cannot answer all the citizens' questions about this regulation, even though i support its purpose.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a great pity that the publication of this document, including the action plan, has been delayed. i would remind you that 70% of europe's population now lives in cities and that it is in our interest to ensure that urban transport is as accessible as possible, but above all that it is more reliable, safer and far more environmentally friendly. i therefore expect the published document to include not only new trends but also, and above all, an evaluation of new practices and measures, including the promotion of healthy modes of transport such as cycling and walking. the municipalities should then choose from this stock what is most accessible and profitable for the municipality. i think that's the basic way. we should ensure that support is provided for this, of course from the structural funds, so that these funds can also serve this purpose.
mr. chairman, the state agrees with my colleagues that state support for public broadcasting needs legislative clarification. after all, we have been calling the european parliament for a long time. but i would also like to draw attention to other urgent matters which the commission will have to resolve as soon as possible. and of the many problems, i'll mention three. firstly, the clear introduction of common television antennas, especially in cooperative houses, in the exceptions under article 5 of the information directive, also for digital broadcasting, which concerns millions of citizens in the new member states, including the czech republic. secondly, it promotes a higher level of cooperation between the national broadcasting councils and the european institutions in order to better apply the public service provisions. and third, greater coordination of national broadcasting regulators on sanctions for inappropriate broadcasting that endangers the moral development of children and adolescents.
madam president, i welcome the compromise that will force the governments of the european union countries to set a timetable and draw up action plans to reduce the risks of pesticide use. the limitation of aerial spraying is certainly welcomed by the citizens of the european union, as are buffer zones to protect drinking water and aquatic organisms. i supported the directive because it is in line with my view of health protection.
madam president, allow me to respond to the debate in the plenary yesterday. i supported the new regulation because i believe it is a tool for finding new, safer alternatives to plant protection. i regard the mutual recognition of authorised pesticides by geographical area as a positive achievement in this parliament. the establishment of the list of prohibited substances is also a step forward these are carcinogenic, genotoxic and also neurotoxic and immunotoxic and is based on scientific knowledge. it turns out that a relatively small percentage of the substances still in use today are, as the commissioner said yesterday. i would remind you, however, that we must also insist on the same requirements for imported goods. commissioner, i've been reporting to other news outlets and i haven't heard back. these reports have already been used for explanation or have already been discussed here, so i believe they will be accepted in writing.
in writing. − this report acts more as a defence of the current cap than as a comprehensive view of food security in a hungry world. however, i supported it because it highlights the importance of ensuring that farmers in developing countries have access to loans so that they too can modernise their agricultural production and increase both the production and the quality of their food. i regret that the report paid little attention to the risk posed by the land grab in the world's poorest countries, in order to grow and export food as cheaply as possible to the rest of the world, at the expense of economic development and the needs of local people in countries suffering from chronic food shortages.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the report draws attention to the need for civil dialogue at a time when european countries are experiencing a crisis of democracy. people don't understand or care about topics that are not related to their daily concerns. low voter turnout in european elections is the logical consequence of citizens not knowing what positive things european legislation can bring them and not believing that their vote can make a difference. little is known about the fact that the lisbon treaty strengthens participatory democracy. i agree with mrs grabowski that member states should give greater support to ngos. however, their representativeness and transparency must be taken into account. i also supported the report because it requires the commission to publish lists of ngos that have applied their proposals during the legislative process. it will certainly reduce the anonymity of the whole process and contribute to a better representativeness of ngos. i also think that the campaign for the ep elections is a great opportunity for the responsible meps to explain what we are deciding in strasbourg and how civil society has participated in our work and how it will be able to participate after the adoption of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. i welcome the discussion of the report on the implementation, application and enforcement of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices affecting consumers in the internal market and directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising, as these directives have so far formed the backbone of consumer protection in the eu. their uniform application in the member states is necessary in particular for online purchases. the internal market must not be fragmented, and traders and consumers, whether they buy or sell in any member state, must be subject to the same rules and protection. i must point out that some countries, including the czech republic, have implemented the directives into their national legislation late. the most important thing now is whether the national supervisory authorities will force the rogue traders to actually put the rules into practice. the christmas sales are an excellent opportunity for inspections. furthermore, the european institutions need to promote greater cooperation between the national broadcasting councils, which are supposed to monitor compliance with the media guidelines, and it is in our interest that the supervision be applied uniformly across the eu.
madam chairman, difloromethane has narcotic effects leading to central nervous system damage and loss of consciousness, as well as cardiotoxic effects. in the case of abuse, and we can consider terrorism here, there is a direct danger of death. that's why i support a ban on its use by ordinary consumers and a strict restriction on its use by professionals. since there are alternative substances for the removal of colour which are perhaps less toxic, it is unnecessary in my view to allow exceptions. the proposal we are voting on tomorrow, however, allows a member state to ask the european commission for a derogation, under very strict conditions, if there are grounds for doing so. i would like to hear how the commission or anyone else will assess the justification of any request for exemption and how they will check compliance with those restrictive conditions.
commissioner, like my colleagues, i believe that it is necessary to adopt standards which ensure decent working conditions for workers in the fishing industry. it is not possible for the european union in the 21st century to allow working conditions in any sector that approach slave labour. i appreciate that the proposed amendments were adopted in a tripartite format, with governments, employers and employees preparing a comprehensive international labour standard that takes into account the specific nature of the sector. it is positive that the new regulation sets minimum age, medical examinations, rest periods and social security and that it also concerns accommodation, food, safety and health at work. all these elements will undoubtedly lead to decent working conditions for fishermen and reduce injuries and deaths. even though i represent a landlocked country, i welcome this standard and i stand in solidarity with the fishermen and wish them to ratify this treaty as soon as possible, not just because i like fish.
president of the commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the first days of 2009 leave no room for doubt. the next six months will be a test for the european union. europe will have to prove its determination to help citizens, workers and businesses to face and overcome the economic crisis. europe will have to show solidarity in emergency situations such as the sudden cut-off in gas supplies that we are currently experiencing. europe will have to show its ability to use all its external influence to resolve international conflicts as dangerous to world peace as the gaza conflict today. in close cooperation with the czech presidency of the council and i would like to congratulate prime minister topolánek and his whole team, i wish them the greatest success in their role as president of the council and, once again, i want to express my full confidence in the czech republic's ability to fulfil this very important role in close cooperation with the czech presidency and with the european parliament, the commission will work to demonstrate that the union is up to the task. together we can spend these six months demonstrating to the citizens why the european union is so indispensable today. to show europeans why it is in their direct interest to speak out by electing the members of the next european parliament. let us show our fellow citizens why europe needs and should benefit from the increase in democracy and efficiency provided for in the lisbon treaty and why we need, more than ever, a lisbon treaty endorsed by all our member states. we're starting from a solid foundation. in 2008, the union demonstrated that it is capable of making difficult decisions that will bind our societies for many years to come. the energy and climate package is a good example of the political will for a europe with vision and determination. this package allows us to move towards an ambitious international agreement next december. in 2008, the union also demonstrated its capacity to adapt to change. it has quickly found the means to respond to the financial sector crisis, it has very quickly agreed on a recovery plan to stimulate the european economy without delay, and i will come back to that. the union also starts 2009 with a strong international reputation. it has been at the forefront of helping to resolve conflicts like russia's with georgia; it is not giving up its efforts to help bring the parties to the conflict closer together, as in gaza, and in fact it is thanks to the european union that at least humanitarian corridors have been opened to help the palestinian people. the european union also inspired the g20's approaches to tackling the economic crisis. it reaffirmed its full commitment to open markets, in particular the conclusion of the doha development and trade process and the millennium development goals, which the severity of the crisis must not call into question. europe must also continue to do its utmost to meet the challenges of today and i believe we have reason to be confident. the commission will continue to do everything it can this year to ensure that the momentum we found in washington at the g20 does not fade. we believe it is important to continue to do everything we can to reform the global financial system and we have an extraordinary opportunity which is the g20 in london. the european union must speak with one voice in london and continue to show its leadership in reforming the global financial system. the commission will continue to propose important initiatives this year, for example to better regulate the functioning of financial markets, to launch a new action programme in the area of justice, freedom and security and to propose measures to adapt to climate change. we will prepare our proposals for the budget review. we will be particularly attentive to the economic and social situation and will take any necessary initiatives. there are still very important proposals before you, ladies and gentlemen. we hope that they will be able to be adopted before the end of the parliamentary term, thanks in particular to the commitment of the czech presidency. i am thinking in particular of the proposals relating to the economic and financial crisis, the social package, the internal energy market - the need for which is clearly apparent - and also the telecommunications and road transport package. i will focus my remarks today on energy and on the economy. it is here where europe's citizens will feel most pressure this year. and it is here where decisive effective action by the european union can make a real difference. an issue which requires urgent and decisive european attention is gas, where, through no fault on the european union side, we have had to plunge into a dispute between russia and ukraine on gas transit. the current situation is, in short, both unacceptable and incredible. unacceptable, as the european union consumers in some member states are still without gas after a week without supplies. incredible, because we remain in this situation the day after an important agreement was signed at senior level with assurances from russian and ukrainian leaders that they will implement the agreement and let the gas flow. without judging intentions, there is an objective fact: russia and ukraine are showing that they are incapable of delivering on their commitments to some european union member states. the fact is that gazprom and naftogas are unable to fulfil their obligations towards european consumers. i would like to convey a very clear message to moscow and kiev. if the agreement sponsored by the european union is not honoured as a matter of urgency, the commission will advise european companies to take this matter to the courts and call on member states to engage in concerted action to find alternative ways of energy supply and transit. (applause) we will see very soon whether there is a technical hitch or whether there is no political intention to honour the agreement. i shall spell this out. if the agreement is not honoured, it means that russia and ukraine can no longer be considered reliable partners for the european union in matters of energy supply. (applause) i would like to thank you. in any case, the commission will come forward with further proposals to improve energy security in europe, following our strategic energy review of last november. implementation of the climate and energy package and the mobilisation of the eur 5 billion of unspent money from the community budget in favour of energy interconnections will also be crucial, and i would like to thank the czech presidency for its support for the fulfilment of this commitment which was taken at the highest level at the last european council. europe must act now to avoid future repetitions of this type of situation. let me now widen the scope and look at the economy. all the signs are that the economic climate is continuing to worsen. unemployment is rising. production figures continue to fall. things are likely to get worse before becoming better. we must not hide the seriousness of the situation, but we must not be negative and fatalistic. we have designed the right strategies to get us through this crisis. we can cushion its impact on the most vulnerable in our societies, and we can take decisions now which will stand us in good stead when we come out of this crisis, and we hope that we will come out of this crisis. the top priority for the coming weeks must be to work together to turn our intentions into reality. the recovery plan proposed by the commission and backed by the european council is the right response. it provides a stimulus large enough to have an impact in every member state: around 1.5% of european union gdp represents a significant amount of money, if well spent. it aims at maximum effectiveness by hitting two targets with one shot: the long-term health and competitiveness of the european economy, and the need for a short-term stimulus to arrest the downturn. it recognised that this is not an abstract economic debate, but a crisis that affects europeans, their livelihoods and their well-being. the social consequences of the crisis must be addressed directly. finally, it uses the european dimension to best effect through appropriate coordination to ensure that action in one member state has a positive knock-on in the others and sparks a positive interaction. to put this programme into action we need the active commitment of the presidency, the support of individual member states and of the council, and the clear commitment of this parliament. it means, in particular, swift agreement on the legal proposals in the package, from accelerating the use of the structural funds to the revised european globalisation adjustment fund, and agreement on the release of eur 5 billion of unspent commitments to strategic projects, with a particular focus on energy and energy interconnections. the russian-ukrainian crisis has made it clearer than ever that filling in the gaps in our energy infrastructure is to the strategic benefit of all europe. it means effective implementation of the plan to release a stimulus of around eur 200 billion into our economy. and, of course, it means keeping the situation under review because, as you will understand, the situation may evolve. as we take this short-term action we must not lose sight of the long term. we can work best if we build on some of the successes on which europe's prosperity has been based, such as the internal market. the motto of the czech presidency, 'europe without barriers', is indeed an important and inspiring message, but as prime minister topolánek said, let me also emphasise that a europe without barriers needs rules. rules to ensure a level playing field between member states and between economic operators. rules to ensure that the benefits of european integration are shared out amongst citizens. rules to ensure the long-term sustainability of our way of life. we will work closely with the presidency and with this parliament in this direction because the europe we want and the europe we need is one that combines freedom, solidarity and security for the benefit of all europeans. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the group gue/ngl chairman octopus has spoken of our complex historical experience. i think that the czech presidency is an opportunity for us to contribute to overcoming the current division of europe into western and eastern parts. jaroslav hašek once made a pun in his švejk, a german-hungarian pun, kelet oszt, nyugat veszt, which actually loosely translated means that the east gives, the west takes. and so the story went. i think it's time to end this thing. i think the czech presidency is also an opportunity for us to free ourselves from our own dogmas and prejudices. i take as an example of these dogmas a recent article by václav klaus, who advises how to overcome this financial crisis by temporarily weakening social, environmental and health standards, because he says these standards prevent rational human action. i believe that the opposite is true, that the czech presidency should contribute to the fact that we have a socially and ecologically driven economy here, an economy that will be driven by social and ecological factors. and so i would like to say that on one point i agree with prime minister topolánek that we need to bet on the flow of innovation that would be the way out of the crisis for us, to build, in the words of richard florida, the creative class that will help our economies get out of the deadlock. i would like to say that we all need the courage to change, and stefan george, the great german literary figure, says that "the future belongs to those who are able to change". i hope that we will be able to actually change our captivity by past experiences, that we will be able to overcome the division between eastern and western europe and build a whole that will not suffer from the superiority complex of the united states or anyone else. and i would like to say at the end of my speech that if there were a whole series of noble intentions, resolutions and goals in prime minister topolánek's speech, that it is good, it is all right that the czech presidency is approached with ambitious projects, but i have one skeptical note, a statement by polish satirist jerzy jerzy lec, who says that "if you participate in the holy path, you will not be relieved of your feet".
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. mr. president, no country has begun its presidency with such unfavourable campaigns and with such ominous prophecies as the czech republic. the french press in particular has been quick to paint a black cloud over the poor union, because it will no longer be presided over by someone as infinitely capable as the french president, and some czechs will take over that role. the czechs, who have committed the mortal sin of not yet ratifying the treaty of lisbon, by which a few big countries permanently take over the decision-making in the union. the czech republic has a popular and intellectually unpleasant president who not only contradicts the lisbon treaty but is able to point out the deepening democratic deficit in the union. the deficit that brought down socialism in our country 20 years ago. the czech presidency has sober objectives, sensible priorities and will be very successful. we wish him well and support him. and this despite the embarrassing cries of the czech socialists, who long ago traded love for their country for proletarian internationalism, and so today, at the behest of their socialist protectors, they hatefully throw sticks at the feet of the czech presidency. it's not good! the czech presidency is to prove that small countries are incapable, and it is therefore time to hand over the permanent management of the union to the big, capable, experienced ones, by means of the lisbon treaty. that is why this presidency is so important. it shows that smaller countries are equally capable of running the eu. they just might avoid the megalomania, the self-centeredness, the hysterical pr, the childish hyperactivity of some presidents and the constant promotion of their nonexistent achievements. i wish prime minister topolánek, vice president vondr and others all the best. it will be the success of my country, but at the same time it will be the success of a small and new country. and that's an important message in the eu. because we bring another experience. whereas the largest countries in the eu lived in predictable democracies that taught them to deal with only standard situations, we lived for half a century in a very non-standard totalitarianism. it taught us to be creative in the most unusual situations. it'll come in handy.
mr president of the council of the european union, ladies and gentlemen, i am proud of the agility and accessibility shown by the czech presidency in the matter of gas supplies to the countries of the european union. and i would like to see the same determination that president topolánek showed when he negotiated with vladimir putin and yulia tymoshenko on gas, in negotiating the future of the european union and the lisbon treaty, respectively. the president of the council of the european union should have the ambition to play the role of leader of the grouping, not just a mere maintainer. you have a unique opportunity, mr president, to demonstrate that the european union is a place where all countries, regardless of their size, are equal partners. and if you have the courage, mr. octopus, you can make history. mr president, you have the opportunity and the authority to publicly declare that the lisbon treaty is dead after the irish referendum and that it was a dead end. you have the chance to propose the creation of a new visionary document that will contain a real common denominator of interests for each eu member and that citizens will be able to identify with in referendums. you don't have to mindlessly push through the lisbon treaty, which reinforces the undemocratic power of bureaucrats and conceals the inability of european elites to agree and, above all, the reluctance to hold citizens accountable. mr president of the council of the eu, you represent a country that in the last century has managed to emerge from austria-hungary, that has survived the munich treason, that has endured the horrors of nazism. you represent a country where the people stood up against the invasion of the warsaw pact troops. you represent a country that lived under the soviet union for 40 years, that in the council of mutual economic assistance inevitably fell into planned poverty, and that has managed to deal with the totalitarian regime in a non-bloodless way. i cannot believe that as prime minister of a country with such historical experience you want social policy, energy, taxation, justice and security to be decided elsewhere than in the individual member states. i do not believe that you really want exclusive union powers over the powers of the member states. i do not believe that you want the union to intervene in the protection and improvement of human health, industry, culture, tourism, education or sport. i do not believe that you welcome the fact that the lisbon treaty abolishes the right of veto of the member states in more than 50 areas and reduces the voting weight of smaller countries, including the czech republic. mr president of the council and the government of the czech republic, have the courage to tell the other 26 heads of state what you say at home in private. say the lisbon treaty is no good and reject it. do it in the name of democracy and freedom. you will not be applauded by the so-called european elites, you will not be applauded by the commission officials, and you will not be applauded by the majority of this parliament. but you will gain the respect of the citizens, who are so easily forgotten here, and you will strengthen the prestige of your country. you preside over 450 million citizens, not a few politicians and officials. in the czech republic, you often refer to the lisbon treaty as a necessary evil. but why is evil necessary? don't tell yourself the lisbon treaty is a necessary evil. it's just evil, and you can change it. initiate work on a new document, draw inspiration from the treaties of rome and the messina declaration, promote the common interest of the european union. this is freedom, prosperity, competitiveness and security, not euro-health, euro-done, euro-parliamentarian and euro-eco. mr. overlord myrk topolank, necessary evil is the alibi of the coward. you, at least, i hope you're not. you have the support of the irish referendum, the support of 55% of the citizens of our country who do not want the lisbon treaty, and the strong voice of the president of the czech republic, václav klaus. and you know, the greatest cowardice is knowing what to do and not doing it.
mr president, i will continue with the czech window that has been opened here, and it shows what you yourself well know and what you stressed in your speech, namely that the elections to the european parliament are really coming up and that today you will very likely hear a number of contributions from both the czech side and other colleagues who will be more influenced by the dense pre-electoral atmosphere than by the effort to evaluate the presidency programme that you have presented here. i think that the first days of the czech presidency have tested the czech government so thoroughly that it really could not have been more thorough and that it has clearly passed this test, and i am very pleased that a number of colleagues have emphasised this. it also turned out that the three e's, the three priorities, i.e. economy, energy and external relations, were chosen perfectly correctly as czech priorities, because what happened at the beginning of this year, i.e. the conflict in gaza and the crisis with gas supplies to europe, fall under at least two of these three e's. it has also become clear, what we have not admitted quite so loudly before, that the question of energy security is absolutely crucial to the future of the european union and it is more important than anything else, including, i dare say, the lisbon treaty, because it will neither brighten nor drown us. the issue of energy security is not a matter for one presidency, but it is a matter for many years, and it is a great challenge and a great honour for the czech republic that this issue can be taken forward. at the same time, it shows how all three e's are interconnected, because energy security has an impact on the economy, as we know, restrictions will always first affect the economic sphere and also external relations, because without a solidly established eastern partnership, the neighbourhood policy and further enlargement of the european union, for example with turkey, we will not ensure europe's energy security and diversity of resources. i believe that the czech republic will take up this task, that it will take this debate forward and that it will thereby leave its indelible mark on the czech presidency and the leadership of the european union, and i wish us all much success in this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i do not know of anyone in this parliament, any member who does not wish the czech presidency success. europeans in the east, west, north and south, in europe, both the old and the new, want the european union to succeed and the czech presidency to succeed. and of course this is also the wish of the members of this parliament, whether we come from the social democratic, the people's party, the liberal or the green party. unfortunately, however, there are certain fears and doubts in public opinion in europe and in this parliament as to whether the czech republic will be able to successfully manage its presidency. and there are a number of reasons for that. the first reason is the instability within the ruling coalition in the czech republic. my colleagues, for example, do not understand why now, at the very beginning of the presidency, there is a change of ministers and a restructuring of the government. how can new ministers, such as transport or local development, ministers with no european experience, successfully manage the european agenda and preside over the european council? my colleagues also do not understand why, for example, the czech government's christian democrats, who are fighting for survival, are holding their election congress during the czech presidency. as we have heard here, the relationship between the government and the czech president raises a number of questions. i would like to hear a clear answer to the question whether the czech presidency, whether the czech government, shares the views of president václav klaus, who rejects the lisbon treaty, denies global warming and claims that the current financial and economic crisis has been caused by too much regulation and the existence of social and environmental policies. another serious reason for doubt is the failure to fulfil your domestic task, the promise you made to chancellor merkel and president sarkozy that the czech government, as the country holding the presidency, would ratify the lisbon treaty by the end of last year. i would like to hear from you, mr prime minister, a clear word on when this treaty will be ratified by the czech parliament and why ratification of this treaty is linked to the ratification of bilateral agreements with the united states on radar and also to the law on relations between the two chambers of the czech parliament. the treaty of lisbon, as we have heard here, is needed. it is also needed to meet czech priorities. i think these are the right priorities, but in order to be able to pursue them in the future, for example in the field of energy security, a greater role for europe in external relations, we need enhanced cooperation and we need the treaty of lisbon. in conclusion, i wish the czech presidency all the best, all the success. this is in the interest of both the czech republic and the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there is certainly no one in this chamber who would envy the czech presidency the conditions under which it takes over the leadership of the european community. mr prime minister, one of the main slogans of your presidency, which you have proclaimed, is a europe without barriers. this phrase can be interpreted in different ways with political and life experience. i am personally convinced that it cannot be understood simply as a further relaxation of financial and market mechanisms, but rather as a challenge to improve what europe can rightly be proud of, namely the european social model. i don't mean just a chance to get rid of meaningless restrictions, to get a job. i see this opportunity as a chance to give the mobile workforce a credible guarantee of equal treatment. this may be reflected, for example, in the fact that the issue of cross-border healthcare, which has not yet been resolved, will be taken in a positive direction during the czech presidency. if europe is to be barrier-free, perhaps it is a good start not to create new barriers. europe is not just the european community, it is also our neighbours, who are not only geographically but also historically part of europe. i would like to know your views on this and the strategy that the presidency will adopt towards our neighbours on the borders of the european union. i am thinking in particular of serbia, with its nerve centre in kosovo, and of moldova, which has made many positive steps towards joining the european community. in my view, not creating barriers also means a principled but european policy towards russia and china. a balanced relationship with these countries must also be sought, with respect, above all, for european interests. a europe without barriers also means taking seriously the fact that there are many minorities on its territory. this also applies to the minorities, which are not very welcome in this parliament, namely the noncitizens who are in some of the countries of the european union. the key to solving these issues depends, among other things, on the implementation of a new policy, namely the abolition of the double standard policy. you said the foundation is freedom and choice. give your citizens in your republic the opportunity to decide in a referendum on the lisbon treaty and the location of the american radar. it will confirm the sincerity of your words.
madam president, the czech presidency deserves recognition for its active role in resolving the dispute over the resumption of czech gas supplies. but it would be a grave mistake to stop before addressing the chronic causes of the problem. it is clear that its origin lies in the russian ambitions to extend its sphere of influence to the territory of ukraine and further into the centre of europe. the eu's effort must therefore be to keep ukraine in the union's sights. however, this will not be possible if ukraine continues to protect opaque transactions and adhere to so-called friendly prices that do not correspond to market realities and keep ukraine politically dependent on russia. the czech presidency's priorities include energy security and strengthening the eastern partnership. the key aspect of this partnership must be to help ukraine to adjust market energy prices negotiated under long-term contracts as quickly as possible. the presidency should also exert effective pressure in kiev to remove opaque economic structures that undermine reform efforts towards the rule of law. only strong external pressure on ukraine and active cooperation can help to sacrifice short-term and often personal interests in favor of real independence from russia and the rule of law without pervasive corruption. without clearing the table in ukraine, the eu cannot be expected to effectively counter russia's increasingly assertive policies towards eastern and central europe. the time to start close eu cooperation with ukraine will be right after the gas crisis has been ignited. if the czech presidency fails to exert effective pressure on the ukrainian authorities on behalf of the eu, we will not only see more days without gas, with considerable consequences for the economies of the member states, but above all a dangerous shift in geopolitical conditions in central and eastern europe.
mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of the czech presidency was marked by the conflict in gaza and the energy crisis. after a wave of whiplash and distrust of the czech leadership, europe is now watching with surprise how responsibly and effectively the czech presidency has tackled unexpected crises. but i wonder if they were so unexpected, and i appreciate that the czech government started to deal with them at christmas, because the french presidency was not able to contain them at the beginning. i would like you to be equally bold in your approach to china, which is deliberately breaking the rules of world trade, encouraging unfair competition and endangering the health of europeans by peddling counterfeit and dangerous products. for example, european parents can hardly afford safe baby shoes anymore, and the council and the commission have not been very interested in this. i welcome the fact that you have also included europe in the world as one of your priorities. i assure you that europe is very open to world trade, but no president-in-office of the council has yet been able to ensure fair reciprocity and open up the wide-open chinese space to european industry. i believe you will be more successful with your quality team. mr president, i congratulate you on presenting a really good and realistic programme for europe and on your personal growth. for the leader of a political party whose ministers voted against our joining the eu in 2003, you're doing very well on the european stage. i only hope that we will see the same growth in opinion from your party colleagues on the lisbon treaty. the media reports that the irish, under the strain of the financial crisis, are more understanding that it's a good instrument that was written for a time of turmoil. i hope you'll be open to the deal, even if it means president klaus deleting you from his phone. i wish us all success in the czech presidency, despite the plurality of our views.
the chairman of the board has been criticized, and i will not join in on purpose. in czech fairy tales, there is usually a wise king sitting on the castle, who does not provoke anyone, does not insult anyone and is not an expert in everything. it's not like that at prague castle. but nothing is perfect. i trust the president of the council will be able to cope with this handicap and to fulfil what he has promised us today. i have known him for almost 20 years and i am pleased to see that his political growth is also being helped by his membership of the european union. i'm holding my fingers to his because what the spanish say is true for me too: "con mi patria, con razón o sin ella", what the english say: "good or bad, my country", and i say: "in good times and in bad, my country".
i think it is necessary to increase the security features in travel documents with biometric features. but in addition to improving the safety of europeans, which is our primary objective, we must also consider the flip side of the coin, which is protecting the privacy of our fellow citizens. i will ensure that the implementation and application of this legislation at national level does not allow for bureaucratic difficulties or even misuse of data, even by non-eu countries. i would remind you that it is necessary to encourage greater involvement of europol and frontex in this matter, only a high level of cooperation between the police authorities of the member states will ensure the desired effect, so that europe is a safe home for us all. i'm glad that children from the age of 12 will have their own passport. this measure will curb the exploitation of children for cross-border organised crime, which is another reason why i supported this seemingly controversial report.
the european arms market is inefficient because it is fragmented. today we have opened up the field of public procurement in this sector too, while respecting the strategic exceptions provided for in article 273 of the treaty. i've been lobbying the committee to end the waste of public funds that non-transparent military contracts create. the national clause has also been abused in the past for public contracts for the military which had absolutely nothing to do with the quality of security. i can name construction contracts, catering or transportation services. this proposal will save money that can be invested in research and technology to better protect us against future threats.
i supported the report on dangerous substances and preparations, in particular dichloromethane, which allows the restriction of this carcinogenic substance for paint removal, even though it allows for exceptions, even under strict conditions. i am convinced that the exemptions will not be used in practice, as there are safe alternative substances that not only consumers but also professional users will be able to prefer in the future.
i welcome the international agreement which will bring new working conditions for those working in the fisheries sector. fishermen face the highest rates of serious work-related accidents and deaths. i would simply ask the council and the commission to do everything possible to ratify the convention much earlier than 2012. please note that my voting equipment failed and that i voted for this report.
mr president, i also voted against the adoption of this report by a communist member of parliament on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. i am glad that the other groups' rapporteurs have managed to make some changes to the text, and that it has some good paragraphs on the situation of minorities. but some are not objective. moreover, this report goes beyond the scope of a document that was supposed to map the past. the report takes too one-sided a political view of human rights in the union. the report tramples subsidiarity by dictating rules on family policy and other ethical issues in contravention of the founding treaties.
mr president, i did not support this populist text, which in its original form contained a number of useful provisions for greater transparency of political activities in the european union. unfortunately, he has changed. and i'm not going to support such nonsense as the publication of work and personal documents that members exchange among themselves or receive from ngos and lobbying organisations. i don't consider them secret, but no national parliament in a civilized democracy would consider itself obliged to publish its working hours, much less all correspondence.
mr. chairman, who doesn't get heartbroken when they see children killed by a missile? the sentiment is terrible, but it shouldn't justify hypocrisy. what european country would have shown as much restraint as israel and for several years allowed itself to be attacked by more than 7,000 rockets that at any one time threatened the lives of more than a million civilians? but the people of gaza are not just innocent victims. they enthusiastically, consciously, freely and democratically elected hamas and its charter. and by liberation they did not mean the liberation of a free gaza, but the liberation of tel aviv and haifa from the jews, the destruction of the state of israel. if one chooses criminals, then one must logically share their fate. especially when these criminals are hiding behind the skirts of women and children as hostages, when they're firing rockets from schools and turning mosques into giant weapons depots. i remember the bombing of dresden in 1944, which brought british planes to the ground, killing 92,000 civilians, mostly women and children. no one was hypocritically offended. the germans freely chose hitler and shared his fate. also, the gazans knew who they were voting for and why. on the contrary, a significant part of the funds that flow from the eu to gaza ended up in the hands of hamas. probably so that the gazans, with full stomachs and good eu security, could devote themselves to digging tunnels to smuggle ever more deadly weapons against israeli civilians. very proportionate!
mr president, commissioner, allow me to congratulate you on the results of your joint negotiations, the troika negotiations in israel. unlike the press, we know that it was your mission that brought the israeli side to the debate about opening humanitarian corridors and a daily ceasefire. i think this is the first time that europe has been taken up by the israeli side as a key partner and by the czech presidency as an important representative. despite the enormous pressure from the left, the european parliament negotiated a resolution yesterday that is quite extraordinary. even in such a tense situation, the resolution is balanced, a resolution that the right can sign, a resolution that is not just a pamphlet or a political victory for the left. we have managed to avoid any, even imaginary, equation between the existing state and the terrorist movement. the key objective of recognising the existence of the state of israel, renouncing violence and entering into the plo agreements by hamas remains intact, as does the requirement to achieve a permanent ceasefire as soon as possible. but we didn't add any value. the three israeli leaders, barak, livni and olmert, are at this moment divided on the terms, the guarantees, on which they are willing to cease fire. the key is definitely in egypt. the key is in the way of guaranteeing control of the tunnels, control of the smuggling, which will be acceptable to the egyptian side. what is the council doing at this time? progress of the negotiations with the egyptian side on the technical mission, international monitoring, technical surveillance, opening of the eu rafah bam. what can we, the members of parliament who are meeting with the egyptian ambassador tonight, demand from the egyptian side or, conversely, what can we gain by negotiating with egypt?
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call on the council and the commission to step up pressure on both sides of the conflict to stop the continuing violence. we have security council resolution 1860 and its provisions must be respected. guarantees must be accepted to ensure a lasting ceasefire and to allow the opening of a humanitarian corridor. it has been repeatedly stated that there is no military solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict. the only way to lasting peace is through political negotiations. the european union, in cooperation with the new united states government and the arab league, needs to play a much more prominent political role than it has so far. the long-running conflict must be ended by a political settlement based on a two-state solution, allowing israelis and palestinians to live together in peace within secure, internationally recognised borders and seeking to build a peaceful system of regional security throughout the middle east.
ladies and gentlemen, despite all the efforts of the european council and the commission at the moment, some member states are still without russian gas, their economies are in danger and their citizens are afraid of the cold. it is a high price to pay for the short-sighted foreign and energy policy of the european union. and unfortunately, it's paid for by the weakest. ladies and gentlemen, empty gas pipelines, production cuts and cold in schools are a tribute to the needless russophobia of some of the union's members who have refused and are refusing to resume negotiations with russia on a strategic partnership. it is a tribute to the uncritical support of the orange part of the ukrainian political spectrum and the attempt to direct eastern european policy from brussels. it's a tribute to the fanatical rejection of nuclear power. and it's a tribute to the long-term effort to interfere in the national energy policies of individual member countries. what would you advise slovak prime minister fic, who now faces sofia's choice? in the 20 degrees frost, gas from the east is not available and the commission from brussels threatens him with sanctions for the start of the nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunice. in the 20 days that slovakia has supplies, can he let factories collapse and people freeze to death? ladies and gentlemen, this is a demonstration of the importance of energy self-sufficiency for the countries of the union. how nice a warm home shirt is instead of a shabby union coat. we should learn from this and not accept the transfer of powers in the energy sector to brussels, as required by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. the problem of natural gas supplies from russia to ukraine and to the eu has, in my opinion, two aspects. the first is the fact that many are raising their hands in indignation and shouting: how can russia afford such a thing! i say, why not? if the eu itself is being built as a primarily neoliberal project, where the market supposedly solves everything, why should russia not be allowed to behave market-like and demand payment from the debtor of what is due to it? so it was not russia that caused the gas crisis, but ukraine, and it is not a political problem, but an economic one, to be quite frank! the second aspect is the focus of the union's institutions and bodies, including parliament, on problems which are irrelevant and which merely distract from the problems which are really urgent. the reaction to russia's legitimate decision to temporarily suspend gas supplies has again fully confirmed this. instead of the ukrainian administration's embarrassing coddling as some kind of 'protective filter' between russia and the eu countries and figuring out the optimal shape of cucumbers, the eu should have been prepared for this kind of crisis long ago. how has the eu helped, for example, the slovaks or bulgarians who were hit hardest by the gas crisis? could she have helped them? if not, there's something wrong with the integration.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, belarus is the last european country with which the european union is not bound by a treaty on mutual relations. this anomaly, as suggested by the draft council and commission strategy towards belarus, could soon be over. besides, the test period of a few months is just ending. the belarusian leadership can make changes that lead to deepening democracy and freedoms, and the european union will offer cooperation and normalisation of relations. that should be the goal. but the art of diplomacy is to see things in their larger context and to make demands accordingly. almost every change that has happened in recent years has happened in a global context. we are now experiencing a fundamental change in the situation. two decades of experimentation with u.s. dominance is over. it is being replaced by a multipolar concept, which can also lead to conflict. what's happening around us is a consequence of the change in the balance of power. new and old centres are distinguishing themselves from competitors and refining their spheres of influence. belarus, like ukraine, moldova, and the caucasus, is a hotly contested area between russia and the united states and the european union, respectively. it is absurd to deny this, even though it is fought under such fine slogans as freedom, democracy and human rights. but the real variables at play are energy, money and military strategy. if the major world players, including the european union, are willing to respect the newly emerging geopolitical (the president interrupted the member's speech).
thank you, madam president, i have just one brief comment to make on the whole textile industry complex and the impact of globalisation on it. i think it's probably wrong for us to do purely conservation measures. it is essential to improve the technical equipment and quality of production in europe and to transform the european textile industry by restructuring it into a speciality and to a quality level that asian competition cannot reach. it is possible, and some companies in europe are taking this route and creating new segments of the market where they feel quite comfortable. i think that this effort should be given a pan-european character and a well-thought-out concept.
the author. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the text of the question to the commission on the solution to energy efficiency problems by means of information and communication technologies (ict) is available to you, so allow me to make a few comments. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and other members who contributed a number of ideas to the final version of the resolution which introduces the question to the commission for their responsible work. in the end, a compromise was reached on almost 90 amendments and the document was adopted unanimously by the itre committee. we are only at the beginning of our efforts to increase energy efficiency through ict. perhaps in the autumn of last year we thought we were preparing a vision and a strategy for the future. the events of the past few weeks have brought us face to face with a different reality. both the financial crisis and the aforementioned disruption of gas supplies to some eu member states create the need to use all available options to address energy challenges in the shortest possible time. this is also true of the need to significantly increase energy efficiency i.e. the efficient use of energy with the widest possible use of ict. it is clear that without their sensible - and i would stress - thoughtful and as varied as possible - efforts, we will not be able to reduce energy consumption or limit adverse climate change. with the help of specialist laboratories, research institutes, but also representatives of major industries and public administrations in the eu member states, we have tried to map the situation in the use of ict for better energy recovery. we should not allow the pursuit of energy efficiency to run counter to the eu's ambition to maintain competitiveness and the sustainability of economic development. we can't go the extreme route, we'll save whatever it takes. it is a fact that reducing energy demand is one of the most effective means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. but we're also moving in terms of smart grids, smart buildings, more efficient energy measurement. we are talking about the application of ict in transport, in construction, the restriction of the movement of goods, more efficient lighting systems and solutions such as nanotechnology and so on. in short, we may be hard-pressed to find a field where energy efficiency cannot be improved by the development of ict. the document only confirms that all our efforts to tackle the eu's energy challenges are closely linked and interrelated. for example, the support we have given to the galileo project as the ep will be reflected in the efficiency of transport, the movement of goods and people, etc. i am pleased to note that we already have many examples in the eu of successful use of ict to achieve more efficient use of energy. and it's good that there's talk of the need to popularize these examples in the interest of positive motivation among the public. basically, we know what we have to do. it's just a matter of finally moving from challenges to concrete actions. otherwise, the citizens in the member countries will lose confidence in us. unfortunately, for many of us, we're more of a debate and bureaucracy club than an institution that can help them overcome obstacles and improve their lives. and these words are also absolutely true of the overall energy policy dealt with in mrs laperrouze's report. i was the shadow rapporteur on the document on the second strategic review of this policy and i would like to thank the honourable member for her excellent work in finding the final compromise version of the report. the result is more concrete and more striking than the original text. as expected, with the european elections approaching, a certain populism is increasing, directed at the voters. there's a great ambition that people like to hear. but fulfillment is often beyond the realm of reality. yes, we would all like to see energy consumption addressed entirely by renewable sources. that would be ideal. but i'm calling for realism. similarly, they're trying to push through a document that says a staggering 80 percent reduction in emissions by 2050 instead of the more realistic 50 to 80 percent. the attempts of the anti-nuclearists to exclude this emission-free and vital source for europe from the overall energy mix are also repeated. for anyone who doesn't want to just join the fashion wave and exploit the politics of fear-mongering from the core, it must be clear that without the core, we simply can't do without it. and we'll also have to invest in the next generation of nuclear power plants, in safe storage and reuse of fuel, and in nuclear fusion. i think it's reasonable that the report ultimately endorses the core's place in the mix. finally, i think it is important to try to better link up energy networks, for example with the baltic states. we've been letting them run wild for years, making promises. and i also appreciate that there is again the idea of better coordination of the use of transmission networks, perhaps even through some sort of dispatch, if we like.
thank you, i'll keep it short. i would like to look at two points which i think have not been discussed yet, namely that we need an integrated energy system in europe which will link the different types of energy, which will link the different networks so that we can replace any possible outages. the recent gas crisis has shown us that this is a task that is most urgent. and the second thing is that we need these energy networks to be linked to similar networks in other areas, i.e. transportation networks and communication networks, so that there is a certain symmetry between them. that's not the case yet, and i think a closer look will show that there are connections here. i would like to say that the role of networks is very important for the future of european construction, that these networks are far more important for european cohesion than the bureaucracy that we are so pleased to see growing both in brussels and in the nation states. i think that in the future the european union will be a kind of necklace worn on the thread of these networks.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union currently imports 50% of the energy it consumes, and this share is growing. the union's dependence on imports of conventional energy sources and on a limited number of suppliers poses a serious threat to our security, stability and prosperity. the strategic analysis of the european union's energy policy therefore comes at the right time in my view. i believe that the triple target for 2020 is the right one from a safety, economic and environmental point of view. but this requires a common approach across the european union, both inside and outside the union. the completion of the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the presentation of a draft of this common energy policy are necessary to establish a common energy policy. in the internal market, in addition to the creation of a clear and stable legal framework, the main task is to complete the interconnection of our energy systems throughout the european union. the mutual solidarity clause will remain an empty phrase unless we link these energy systems. the use of all domestic energy sources must also be strengthened, from savings to an increase in the share of renewable sources and a stronger use of safe nuclear energy. it goes without saying that financial investment in our domestic energy sector will also be returned in the form of a restart of economic growth. as regards external energy relations, there is also a need for much greater diversification than has been the case so far. dialogue with producer, transit and other consumer countries should be intensified. cooperation with the countries of the middle east, the mediterranean and north africa needs to be increased. this must be done within the framework of the barcelona process, within the framework of the mediterranean initiative. the candidate country turkey must also be more involved in the dialogue and, in my view, we must also find much more effective ways of reaching countries such as iran. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, on what i consider to be a very good and balanced report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this agenda is undeniably important and requires the effective cooperation of all member states. i would like to point out that modern society is weakening the protection of its children from abuse in many ways. these range from frequent family breakdowns, the increasing number of children raised in single-parent households, to high levels of citizen mobility and the expansion of modern information technologies. that is why i strongly support this report. i consider open sexuality education relevant to the prevention of child sexual abuse, not only in relation to children but also in relation to parents, educators, social and health professionals. it is important that we all be properly sensitized, that we be able to admit that these crimes exist at all, and that we recognize their manifestations in time on the part of the perpetrators and the victims. i would like to draw particular attention to the fact that child sex offenders are characterized by a high degree of repetitiveness. the german friends have a saying: "einmal ist keinmal". but if someone commits two or more of these crimes, we should be able to prevent others from doing so. there are both curative and remedial measures, especially the ban on working with children and young people. since recidivism also occurs at very long intervals, information on the tendency to commit similar offences should be available for a very long time. i would also recommend that we establish a mandatory screening of applicants for the positions of teachers, coaches and youth counselors in relation to any possible sexual offence in the past. in my experience, child sex offenders often try to break through the prohibitions of youth work in a variety of ways. under various pretexts, sometimes even under false identities, they try to find their way back to their objects. the free movement of persons within the european union gives these activities a wider scope.
madam president, i welcome this report very much, but i have only two reservations. firstly, i do not think that the introduction of penalties for parents who force their children into an involuntary marriage is effective. it's not very realistic to prove such conduct within the family, where, moreover, there is an exceptional right to refuse to testify. second, the specific professional secrecy provision needs to be clarified. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against the dangers of sexual exploitation and the protection of children from the risks of sexual exploitation. a european-wide database of paedophiles must be set up as soon as possible, which will make it impossible to employ them in schools and childcare services in another member state. the age limit for sexually motivated offences should be harmonised. i also note that member states must fund the development and dissemination of programmes that will enable parents to protect their children much better against grooming when using the internet.
madam president, in connection with this report, i would like to draw attention to a very urgent problem which has arisen in the context of the current crisis. in some countries, and my country is one of them, there is a mass layoff of agency workers, who have come to us mostly from eastern european and asian countries. they become illegals. when they are released, they find themselves without resources, and so they become playthings in the hands of so-called entrepreneurs who exploit them in ways even worse than the agencies did. at the same time, i would like to draw attention once again, and for the first time in this house, to the complete lack of staffing of labour inspection offices in many of our member states. without building a well-prepared and equipped network of inspectors who understand labour law and know european directives, we will not achieve any change. while some standards for business have been agreed in the european institutions, member states usually raise an alarm whenever you try something similar, even if only to a minimal extent, in the field of social legislation. the appeals to tradition, subsidiarity and the like are ridiculous and hypocritical in a situation where workers in the european union are subjected to unbridled exploitation. that is why i welcome any effort to prosecute and punish those who employ illegal immigrants, and i thank my colleague favo.
madam president, illegal work affects not only five to ten million people, but especially those who employ them. unlike the author of the report, i believe that the problem is not only that of illegal immigrants from third countries, but also that of the many millions of citizens of the european union who work occasionally in a number of sectors for a salary from which they do not deduct taxes and whose employer does not deduct insurance. the growth of undeclared work is so significant that it distorts competition. the effective remedy, which is in the hands of the member states alone, would be to reduce the tax burden on human labour. but i also support this commission proposal to harmonise sanctions for employers, because i believe that strict sanctions targeting mainly recidivist employers will reduce the availability of illegal work and thus the rate of illegal immigration, and also reduce the extent of social exclusion, sometimes even exploitation, of third-country nationals. however, i consider it problematic to introduce an obligation for employers to verify the authenticity of their residence permits.
wildlife and its diversity are a gift and a treasure that must be responsibly cared for by humanity, not just within the european union. if we do not stop the deforestation of rainforests, the plundering of asian, african and american waters, if we do not raise awareness more effectively of our common responsibility to protect nature from people all over the planet, the efforts of the european union will not be effective. and this report, which i also supported today, will be just a piece of paper.
mr president, i was happy to support the report on pre-commercial public procurement, as it will significantly reduce the risks of investing in innovation. and that's especially important in this time of recession. public institutions will be able to work with pre-commercial contract winners to develop new products to improve the quality of public services. i believe this will increase the interest of smes in designing innovative solutions to improve public transport, healthcare, reduce energy consumption in buildings, or enable the development of devices to protect citizens from security threats without having to compromise their privacy. this new procedure will help the european public sector to better tackle key public tasks without state subsidies, while increasing the innovation potential of companies in the european union. we have sent a strong signal to the european commission today to come forward with a concrete legislative proposal soon.
mr. chairman, i would like to present my position on the ownership of the generation and transmission system for gas in the context of the legislation adopted. the proposed certification procedure in relation to third countries appears to be a reasonable compromise. this is the first time that the union has taken energy security into account in the context of the liberalisation of the gas market. in response to the ongoing gas crisis, there is also a need to accelerate the construction of alternative, russia-independent gas pipelines to europe. major infrastructure projects such as the nabucco pipeline, which is to link the caspian region to europe, will not be possible without large vertically integrated energy companies and their investments. however, they will hardly be able to join them if they are exposed to the risk of ownership unbundling and thus economic weakening. the solution parliament has in hand is to provide for a derogation from the ownership division for new infrastructure for a period of time ensuring a return on investment. i don't know if we've made the most of our options in this legislation.
mr. chairman, i dissociate myself from the amendments that have just been voted on to the zaborska report on non-discrimination on the basis of sex and intergenerational solidarity. a mature european society must learn to see around-the-clock care for children and other close people in need as a full-fledged alternative to working life. the proposal from the green group, which challenges this approach of the czech presidency and describes it as backward, i condemn as misguided and immature, even though the meps unfortunately raised their hands for it. not only is this not a regressive degradation of women into a subordinate role to men, but it is a way to socially rehabilitate the family and give men equal rights. today, men drive strollers, they take care of a sick child. those women and men who spend part of their lives caring for their offspring or who are incapacitated parents are doing socially significant work that must not be considered a secondary activity in the future. i appreciate that the czech presidency has made such a procedure one of its priorities. our aim must be to create conditions in which neither the woman nor the man who chooses this path is discriminated against in their occupation, so that they can take advantage of a range of means to combine family and professional life in accordance with the principles of flexicurity. we must strengthen parenting, i.e. intergenerational flexibility, and not weaken it by imposing obstacles in labour laws. the prejudices of the last century are deepening the demographic crisis. the report by mrs zaborska was a step in the right direction and i object to the amended version adopted.
mr president, thank you for your patience and indulgence. let me take the opportunity to explain why i voted against the greens and their amendment. i do not want to vote against the czech presidency. my first point is that the czech presidency does not call for a particular change in the so-called barcelona targets, but for the opening-up of the debate on a possible and viable revision of the targets. my second point is that it is evident that there are different social, cultural and economic conditions which can hardly enable the achievement of the barcelona targets generally and equally all over the eu. thirdly, the report does not take into account further factors, such as the freedom of each family, as well as the interests of children. last, but not least, it is also difficult to achieve the barcelona targets because childcare is, quite rightly, entirely in the hands of national governments.
mr president, i was happy to support the report a moment ago, but i must add to my previous speech that seven countries have not yet committed themselves to the council of europe convention or the un optional protocol containing modern tools to combat the sale, prostitution and pornography of children. i regret that this also applies to my own czech republic, which of course wants to fight this better, but has long been tackling the problem of the incorporation of the criminal liability of legal persons into our legislation. of course, it is the corporations that organize the child trade and reap the lucrative profits. i therefore appeal to the czech presidency to solve this domestic problem and set an example for the other countries of the european union.
in writing. i did not vote today for the report on the extension of scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the united states. this is despite the fact that eu and us investment in this area is among the largest in the world and that many of the interconnected scientific institutes are among the world's fastest-growing scientific and technological advances and contribute to the solution of a number of global problems. but i have long criticised the commission and the council for their reluctance to agree with the us on basic common ethical principles for science and research. i'm troubled that this agreement doesn't have any such clauses either. it's irresponsible to humanity and also inconsiderate to those scientists who voluntarily adhere to certain ethical principles while others do not. it's mostly biotechnology.
in writing. - as for the agreement with the us, i also voted against the report on the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and russia. and i have the same reason. what bothers me is that it lacks a chapter devoted to an agreement on common ethical limits for research. i am saddened that the commission and the council underestimate this very important aspect of research and do not even try to reach any agreement. it's as if they don't realize that ethical limits have a place in science more than in other fields where precaution is also necessary. so, at least as far as publicly funded science and research are concerned, an international agreement on ethical principles would be perfectly appropriate for such an agreement.
in writing. − although it may seem that the adoption of the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement renewing the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the government of the russian federation is a formality of secondary importance, i do not believe that this is the case. it is becoming increasingly clear that russia must be a strategic partner for the eu and not some eternal and damned scarecrow. any step towards eu-russia cooperation at different levels and in different qualities should therefore be welcomed. it can also be expected that cooperation with russia will also play a very important, clearly positive role in the current severe economic crisis. russia cannot be separated from europe. he is a part of it, whether he likes it or not, and working with him may soon be vital for the european union.
mr. president, barack obama's plan to evacuate guantanamo bay is welcomed by the world as a symbol of the ruthless treatment of people who are either brutal terrorists or suspected of the most serious crimes. some, however, are never charged or even properly tried. obama made a popular gesture and now he's figuring out where to put them. first, he should convince the u.s. congress to change the laws so that prisoners can be transferred to u.s. soil and some given new identities. it's a very hot potato, considering that 60 of the guantanamo detainees have returned to terrorist activity after their release, so it's a case-by-case basis. the czech presidency's negotiations on the guantanamo solution are also an opportunity to emphasise that dialogue between the us, europe and cuba on changes in the totalitarian island of freedom begins with respect for human rights, not only of prisoners on us bases, but especially with the release of abused political prisoners in cuba and the achievement of freedom of speech and movement for innocent cuban citizens.
madam president, i want to thank carlo florenz for his commitment and the democratic way in which he has led the european parliament's special committee on climate change. his original report was better than this compromise, but i supported it anyway. in today's discussion, a whole range of opinions, including critical ones, emerged, but they had one thing in common. climate change is underway, and there is no doubt that at the present level of civilization we can control it, and it is our responsibility to future generations to find a consensus on effective measures. none of them are self-sustaining, and all of them have to be on all continents. i believe that the czech presidency, despite the extreme views of the president, can bring the united states to new commitments.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report by mr florenz. the adoption of this report is bad news for citizens in the european union. the earth's climate has changed, it is changing, and it will change whether we like it or not. this will not change any meaningless commitments that the european union makes in this area. the florence report argues that the climate commitments the eu made in 2007 are insufficient and need to be further increased. i don't agree with that. if the eu is the only part of the world that reduces its emissions, the goal of reducing global emissions can never be achieved. we will only achieve that a large part of european business will move away and our jobs will be lost here. the authors of the report want to change everything in europe, from the menu to tourism, where social tourism becomes the official destination. for such a cultural revolution, where everything old is thrown away and replaced by a new approach, even mao zedong would not have to be ashamed. no rational person can agree with such an approach. that's why i voted against it.
madam president, allow me to explain why i voted against the florenz report on climate change. policies relating to climate change are based to a large extent on alarmist ideologies. the evidence for climate change is controversial. hypotheses blaming man for this change are also, to say the least, disputable. man is seen as a creature who is harmful to the environment without making a beneficial contribution. i do not share this view. the content of the report is a direct consequence of an ongoing fashionable green ideology stating that we must put nature and the planet first, that we cannot take care of people, their needs and interests. the few amendments to the report calling for further progress on nuclear energy, and supporting headway on nuclear fusion, can hardly mitigate its negative impact on the whole european economy and agriculture. i voted against the report because it is a blueprint for substantial political problems. instead of bringing forward ideas that nobody is interested in, we should take care of people and their needs.
i supported the report by mr fava, but i have serious reservations about the title of the directive 'conduct of employers towards illegally staying third-country nationals'. it is hypocritical, because black labour also affects millions of european workers, craftsmen, domestic helpers and others, and the harmonization of penalties must affect black labour, regardless of where the employee comes from.
the european union has already achieved the first results of a common energy policy. in 2015, emissions auctions are launched, renewable energy programs are launched. only the adoption of the lisbon treaty will allow for a more efficient management of europe's energy priorities, and these are changing. the most important thing is political independence. energy supplies must not be a source of political blackmail. the second priority is to increase the share of clean energy and renewable resources, so these technologies, but also the core and its safe operation and waste disposal, must be the target of investment in research. the most important thing that comes out of this discussion is also finding ways to limit consumption and treat natural resources with respect. of course, it starts with raising children.
madam speaker, allow me to explain why i abstained on a resolution that addresses the issue of closing the prison at guantanamo. yesterday's discussion showed that everyone welcomes this popular or populist plan of the american president, but that's about all we can do. the resolution contains assessments for which we do not have enough validated assessments and validated evidence. we spent three hours yesterday in a heated debate about where prisoners should be placed and those for whom crimes have not been proven. the solution, of course, lies with the us congress and, if necessary, with the governments of some european countries, not with the european parliament. that's why i didn't vote for the resolution.
in writing. climate change is a fact. yet, some scientists have qualified to question it. similarly, the impact of human activity, which this report also cites as the main cause of climate change, is being questioned by some in the scientific community. in any event, the report, in its 22 chapters, provides a good overview of the issues from the point of view of the majority of the world's professional public. as far as the individual chapters are concerned, the energy chapter is somewhat incomplete. it correctly acknowledges the limitations of fossil fuel resources, but it fails to address the key issue of ensuring sufficient energy in a situation where global energy consumption is expected to increase by 60% by 2030. it is therefore clear that it will be necessary to start building nuclear power plants in the near future. this single source of clean energy, which is now recognised as being able to be produced on a large scale, has its ideological opponents in the ep. yet since the mastery of fusion, nuclear power has no alternative to clean energy. i agree with the report on that point.
let me first of all mention the role of serbia in my brief contribution. despite the difficult domestic situation, the serbian government has taken a very constructive and responsible approach to the deployment of eulex in kosovo. in accordance with the un, it has also allowed a senior police officer of serbian nationality to be attached to the kosovo police service. i am convinced that this is the way to gradually integrate the serbs of kosovo and, ultimately, the members of other minorities into the political, economic and social life of kosovo. in this context, i would also like to call on the high representative of the european union to ensure that the kosovo authorities pay sufficient attention to the comprehensive development of the mitrovica region. and like anna ibrisagic, i also believe that we need to do a lot more than we have done so far on security, on the economic situation, on the economic development of kosovo.
mr president, i was listening to the debate quite carefully and i am not going to bring forward anything new. i would just like to stress a few remarks that were made, which in my opinion should be overarching the whole debate. i refer to mr vondra’s words that we should take care to take into account fair competition and we should avoid market distortion, and the commissioner’s remarks that we should be fair and not raise false expectations. above all, commissioner, thank you for saying that we should allow our manufacturers to be more flexible through less regulation, less law and less exorbitant bureaucracy.
mr president, i was pleased to support the report which will allow for administrative and legal simplification, which will increase consumer awareness in europe and in third countries of the quality and nutritional value of food, and also that consumers will be clear that safe production methods have been used. i did not agree with the preference given to the olive oil or olive sector and i believe that the commission will also include the wine sector in the specific programmes, which will thus be able to better disseminate information on quality wines produced in the various regions of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, mr. chairman, china has gained enormous advantages by joining the wto in 2001. we've opened our markets to her, but she's not abiding by the terms of trade she's committed to, and we've been basically just watching her for a few years. i strongly encourage a strategic partnership with this major economic player. but this strategic partnership has to be underpinned by a commitment on the part of china to respect human rights, because we need to have partnerships with countries that are democratic, not totalitarian. we have our own experience of this, the new member states.
the tokyo conference sent a signal that the crisis in sri lanka could end and that there was hope for peace. however, a quarter of a million civilians trapped in the conflict area need safe passage and humanitarian assistance. we need to have foreign observers in the area, to assess humanitarian needs. however, recent attacks on journalists do not guarantee the safety of humanitarian organizations. the government promises to investigate the attack on journalists, but it's not the way. we also need to get the sri lankan government to join the ottawa convention and remove the land mines. i regret that the socialist group members preferred to go home rather than participate in today's debate and therefore to defend their different views on the solution to the sri lankan problem.
i would just like to emphasize that this problem concerns the socialists and possibly other groups, not the european people's party, which is aware of its responsibility for these important issues and is present here in considerably greater numbers than the others.
i originally wanted to address the dangers of militarizing space because i think i'm close to that as an astronaut. but the documents presented emphasise, among other things, the need to use security policy in the interests of the citizens of the union. we are completely ignoring their views on the planned construction of new foreign bases in the european union. in particular, preparations are underway in poland and the czech republic to deploy elements of the us missile defence system. and in my country, the czech republic, the interests and opinions of the public are completely ignored. there has not been a single official voice from the european union to support the interests of the citizens for whom the european union exists. yet, two-thirds of the people in the czech republic have long rejected a foreign base. this is despite months - over two years - of explanation and persuasion. i think there is something wrong with the eu when the interests of the people are not reflected in our documents, when their views cannot be taken into account in the interests of democracy. no wonder, then, that people turn away from, disapprove of, or reject the union's policies.
let's celebrate the 60th anniversary of nato. we have a big us-eu-nato summit coming up. france's return to nato military structures, combined with the energy devoted to european security and defence policy, is an excellent opportunity to align the european security strategy with a possible new strategy for nato. the ratification of the lisbon treaty today by the chamber of deputies of the czech republic creates a new qualitative level for european defence and security. we'll build a joint european headquarters. let's rationalize the european defense market. let us invest in science and research, in the european defence agency, create a european soldier status, avoid duplication and literally bypass the turkish syndrome. let's use the opportunities of the new american administration to work together in afghanistan and in missile defense in europe. we have a great opportunity ahead of us of a european security and defence policy as the engine of further european integration and security. let's not miss it.
let me say a few words about the relations between the european union and russia. in my view, the formulation of a common foreign and security policy cannot be carried out without dialogue with russia. the european security agency, which includes the united states, nato, the osce, the international disarmament agreement, should also include russia in the dialogue. i would therefore call on the council and the commission to adopt a constructive and open attitude to possible talks between the european union, the united states and russia on the resumption of a transatlantic security dialogue based on the helsinki process. i believe that these talks should include a discussion on missile defense. the european union should play a much bigger role in this matter than it has so far. in my opinion, the deal cannot be left to the united states and russia alone. this is what the european public expects from us.
in writing. i reject in principle the report on the european security strategy and the european security and defence policy as presented (a6-0032/2009). this report is a typical manifestation of the militarization of the european union and proof that in the sphere of the union's security, military means and measures are to replace, or even supplant, the necessary measures of a political nature. a number of the conclusions and demands contained in the report are in direct contradiction to the idea that the union should be built as a peace project. it is no wonder that eu citizens, if they can express their views, oppose the lisbon treaty, including for the entrenchment of the eu's militaristic character. the report's position is completely misleading and dangerous, since it speaks of the eu's security interests on the one hand and criticizes russia for defending its legitimate security interests in the caucasus on the other.
the economic crisis affecting all the countries of the european union. but rising unemployment is in no way a reason to start breaking the basic principles of the common market. i would like to take this opportunity to protest against the statements made by french president nicolas sarkozy, in which he called for the french brand peugeot to be moved from its factory in cologne, in the czech republic, back to france. such statements by politicians who want to protect and restrict companies in times of crisis are completely unjustifiable. attempts at protectionism and the closing of countries to one another are undesirable and threaten the very purpose of the european union. richard fisher, president of the federal reserve bank of dallas, said: "protectionism is like a cocaine hit to the economy. it may lift you up, but it's addictive and it leads to economic death. let's think about it, resist the populist pressures and not lose our heads in the face of the crisis. let us ensure that the priorities of the czech presidency are respected and promote the idea of an open europe without barriers.
ladies and gentlemen, in the case of mrs herzog's report on small and mediumsized enterprises, we are talking about 70% of jobs and 70% of vat in the union. i therefore want to not only highly appreciate but also support the rapporteur's initiative. in the current crisis, smes are undoubtedly among the most vulnerable. we must therefore also work towards a better social perception of smes. it still faces a number of obstacles. it's much harder than the giants, maybe, to get credit. the bureaucracy and the bureaucracy are the next killers of small and medium-sized businesses. it is still much harder for smes in europe to obtain public contracts than in the us and many asian countries. we argue that they are crucial to the health of the european economy. so let's give them a chance to prove it, even now, when the crisis is spreading with a domino effect triggered by financial giants and multinationals.
madam president, i strongly disagree with the eurosceptics' opposition to the common immigration and asylum policy enshrined in the lisbon treaty. we need to tackle illegal economic migration together and more vigorously, but also to provide more dignified conditions for asylum seekers. i am not indifferent to the fact that refugee children in european camps are denied access to education and necessary health care for months. it is also unsustainable that within schengen, some countries recognize refugee status and others do not. it is wrong that frontex does not monitor the numbers and countries of origin of applicants for international protection. yes, we need a uniform asylum procedure and we also need to help the buffer countries on a basis of solidarity. but we need to link asylum policy with development policy to prevent migration.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the high level of professionalism with which mr schwab has completed the commission's proposal for a regulation on measures to increase the competitiveness of the european automobile industry and at the same time to enable the member states to monitor effectively compliance with the type-approval requirements for motor vehicles on the market. for example, by controlling tyre pressure we will reduce fuel consumption and thus emissions, by introducing advanced electronic control systems in 2011 we will reduce the number of accidents on european roads a year earlier, noise reduction is another benefit, and this is both for tyres and road design. this regulation will reduce the administrative burden and simplify the legislation in line with the un convention on the unification of vehicle requirements. this regulation is an excellent example of integrated legislation and i am very pleased that the czech presidency was well prepared and that is why there is agreement between parliament, mr schwab and the council on the first reading.
mr president, i have consistently pointed out that the excessive cost of raising environmental standards for european producers reduces competitiveness and undermines employment unless china, brazil, the usa and other economies also commit to similar standards. i am all the more disturbed that the commission has not carried out an economic impact study on employment so that we can make informed and more responsible decisions on new requirements for the otherwise very desirable reduction of nitrogen oxides. and i support the push to modernize factories. today, as member states implement anti-crisis packages to reduce costs for firms and factories, i must also point out, however, that the envi proposals would only be able to be implemented by strong competitive firms, while small firms would reduce or close down operations and lay off employees. i will vote against extending the scope of this emissions reduction directive to households and small businesses, small farms, and even schools, churches, etc. in times of crisis. it's not appropriate and it's against common sense. thank you, ms. jackson, for your amendments.
the growth of online gambling is a new phenomenon, which knows no national boundaries, and its negative consequences must be tackled in good time, and in a united way throughout the european union, with a view to the effective protection of children and young people. member states should introduce as soon as possible a common regulation of payments, including identity and age verification. prevention is of course the key, and that is why i am calling for a europe-wide ban on advertising for gambling and betting, if they are aimed at young people, in the same way as we have for tobacco and alcohol. other negative effects of the entertainment industry, such as money laundering and organized crime in general, also need to be monitored. and i'm not a big supporter of free markets in these things.
mr president, unfortunately, smes are still not the backbone of the economy, especially in the new member states, and yet they are the hope for some employment security. we need, of course, more flexible labour laws so that even small businesses can respond flexibly to new demands, so that they can more easily replace specialists to meet new objectives. we need them to have easier access to start-ups, but also to liquidation. and most importantly, we also need to have easier access not only to loans but also to borrowing from european funds. we know all this. we have done a lot of work in the last five years here in the european parliament, but it is up to the member states to take these matters seriously and not just talk about them, but actually do something about them. now, in a time of crisis, it is quite clear what has been neglected in this area, especially by the new member states. i supported mrs herczog's report, but if the member states do not work, it is completely useless.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to say that i strongly disagree with one of the main premises of the report, namely that the abolition of border controls at the internal borders of the eu is one of the greatest achievements of european integration. the abolition of border controls is only a necessary consequence of the neoliberal eu project, in whose vital interest is the free movement of capital, goods and people labour. the eu should be showing successes in the field of peace and social policy, but unfortunately, there are fewer and fewer of them. the report also argues that the us systems should be copied in the management of the eu's external borders. this is misleading, considering the real and reinforced iron curtain between the us and mexico. with regard to the management of the eu's external borders, i would also like to stress that recent european history has clearly demonstrated that political and social problems cannot be solved by police and regime measures.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen, maritime disasters are the most devastating single event in the transport industry. maritime transport has been associated with a number of superstitions and traditions since mythical times. until recently, it was governed by different rules. gradually, the international maritime organization (imo), among others, has developed increasingly clear rules from customary law. they were not made for any purpose. they are intended to ensure the safety of goods and people, specify technical requirements for ships and infrastructure, navigation rules and other matters. other legislation including one recently discussed in the european parliament harmonises minimum requirements for crew training. others try to rule out the possibility of maritime disasters. however, despite all technical measures, large-scale emergencies may occur. until the prestige accident, the european union states had not been aware of the need to harmonise the technical investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector. the failure to investigate the prestige accident, or to assess the clear causes of this extraordinary event, has demonstrated the need to harmonise the investigation methodology. this includes fixing firm dates for the opening and closing of investigations and the structure of the final report. this certainly includes the provision of an objective commission of inquiry. the directive had to be linked to the imo requirements and other material of the third maritime package, while making use of the provisions of other binding material in force in the european union, for example in the area of confidentiality of personal data. i believe that the conciliation procedure has been very successful in resolving all the outstanding issues, including the clear formulation of the requirement of fair treatment of the crew of the shipwrecked vessel. the wording used here is the same as that used in the corresponding part of the sterckx directive, i.e. the community vessel traffic information and control system, which my colleague mentioned a little. in conclusion, i would like to thank the authors of the amendments for their collegial approach to the work, and for the very helpful attitude of the staff from the european commission and the individual presidency countries, i.e. germany, slovenia and france, who took part in the work. the quality of the text is also due to the professional assistants, who supported me in the first phase of the project, such as hannes kugi, and the admirably tireless katrin huber in the negotiation process. they also make the resulting directive a practical document that can only be recommended to the professional public.
the reporter. - i would like to take the liberty, although it is not very often the case here, to complement my colleague, because it is not just a question of whether the commissioner will remain in office so that we can monitor him, but also whether we will remain in office. it's just a little addition. i'd like to thank everyone who worked on the package. this material is paradoxically becoming the first big success of the czech presidency of the european commission, whether we like it or not. i am referring to the comments made by my colleague, mr toussaint, who has noted with bitterness that the working conditions at sea are not covered by the package at all. it is true that, apart from the proper treatment of a ship's crew in difficulty or a ship's crew in a maritime disaster, the package does not directly address the working conditions of the ship's crew. but i believe that the european parliament, in cooperation with the commission, will return to these working conditions in the near future, after all we are dealing with this in other transport sectors, it will only be logical. this important aspect of maritime safety is still not sufficiently regulated, as is the case with inland transport. and i believe, and i'm going back to what i started with, that if commissioner tajani and i can get together again to work together, we can work together on this.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i don't think i can please you. the barcelona objectives aim to increase the employment of mothers, but in no way are they aimed at improving the environment for children and at helping these children to better manage and overcome life crises in the future. did anyone here care that, for example, infants and toddlers up to two years of age need to have a mother or a father or a grandmother or a nanny by their side every day, but one person, and that these children do not need any collective devices for their healthy development in any way. the situation is quite different for preschool children, and here the barcelona targets are quite right, and the czech republic can provide collective care for 90% of preschool children because these children can play together and need to be in a collective. but, ladies and gentlemen, the barcelona targets are the politics of the last century. modern family policy in the 21st century must also look at the healthy development of children. we in the communist countries have a lot of experience with collective facilities just because mothers had to go to work after the fourth or fifth month when the baby was born. please read something about the history of europe as well.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, the joint programme for growth and jobs, or lisbon strategy, was launched in 2005. it's 2009 and despite all this, we are facing a rise in poverty, an economic and financial crisis unprecedented in history. moreover, the latest projections project an increase in the number of unemployed in the european union in 2009 to almost 3.5 million people. despite all the measures taken so far, unemployment is rising. not only in my opinion, but something is wrong. the current situation shows the failure of the existing policies, which mainly promote the accumulation of large profits by large economic and financial groups, the creation of large monopolies and the deterioration of the living standards of workers and the population. europe must take a different direction. the council should adopt at its spring session a european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development and a new set of economic, social and environmental policies to support investment in particular in quality of work, skills upgrading, infrastructure support programmes, cohesion policy, environmental protection and improvement of occupational health. the large problem facing member states, including the czech republic, is the relocation of firms. the european union should establish a regulatory framework that penalizes the relocation of firms and businesses, for example by making the receipt of community financial support conditional on the fulfilment of commitments such as labour protection and local development. especially now, in times of financial and economic crisis, we need not only solidarity but also precise and fast-acting rules and instruments for common defence against the crisis. it is also a fitting continuation of the legacy of jean monnet, whose memory we have commemorated today.
ladies and gentlemen, unlike my predecessor, i am convinced that the forthcoming european council should fully embrace the motto of the current czech presidency, which is europe without barriers. i hope that absent council chairman mirek topolánek will not succumb to the pressure of the obama administration to tempt new regulations and pour taxpayer money into the economy. the incoming council should also reject the barroso commission's green-lobbying plan for massive multi-billion dollar support for renewable energy. economic theory and historically tested practice make it clear that none of this will ease the economic downturn or halt the growth of unemployment. on the contrary, i did. it's only going to deepen the crisis and add another risk in the future, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is inflation. i believe that no sensible politician wants to contribute to the massive price increases and the devaluation of the savings of the citizens. i hope that the presidency will continue to be a firm advocate of liberalisation and the removal of trade barriers and protectionism. ladies and gentlemen, as we know, a major factor in the current crisis is the government's regulation of u.s. economic policy. instead of learning from this fact, the european union institutions have, since 1 july last year, in nine months, adopted an incredible 519 regulations and 68 directives. if the czech presidency wants to be credible and useful in its slogan 'europe without barriers', it should immediately review all eu legislation and remove all kinds of environmental, gender, social and labour restrictions instead of holding more summits. the council should also consider how to curb the excess welfare state and reduce high taxes and insurance. only in this way can we rapidly restart the rational human and market activities without which the current crisis simply cannot be overcome.
ladies and gentlemen, in my short speech today i shall concentrate on one important area which i hope will be successfully discussed and dealt with at the european council, and that is energy policy. we all know that the european union needs to strengthen its energy security and independence, it needs to strengthen its energy infrastructure, that is to say, to link and extend oil and gas pipelines, energy pipelines between individual countries and regions, that we need to increase oil and gas reserves. we want to increase the share of renewable resources, we want to increase the energy efficiency of buildings and products, we want to increase investment in research and in measures to mitigate the impacts of climate change. i am convinced that the measures and investments that need to be made in the field of energy policy can not only solve the energy and climate problems, but also, in a time of economic crisis, have a very positive and powerful impact on the start-up of economic growth and on the increase of employment.
a few remarks: firstly, it is good that this debate on the enlargement of the european union is taking place, because it is important that even in the time of the great economic crisis europe does not forget one of its priorities, i recall the successful priorities, and that is further enlargement. and that is a priority that we should not lose sight of. secondly, as regards croatia, i am convinced that the accession negotiations can be concluded as early as this year. i would therefore urge the council to set up a technical working party now to draw up the treaty of accession. as regards the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, it is regrettable and demoralizing for the macedonians that accession negotiations have not yet been opened in skopje, although macedonia was granted candidate status three years ago. i would therefore like to call on the council to speed up this process. and as far as turkey is concerned, yes, i agree that political reforms must be accelerated to open the so-called political chapters. but i do not understand why it is not possible to negotiate with turkey, for example, on the chapter on energy, which is vital for both the european union and turkey.
in writing. despite warnings from experts, parents underestimate the impact of computer games on the personality of their children. children and adolescents are exposed to violent or sexual content in computer games for hours on end. children imitate games, which can lead to tragic endings. future road pirates are just one consequence of the influence of aggressive games on behavior, psyche and later manifested habits. that's why i'm pushing for a code of ethics for video game retailers and manufacturers. however, unlike the rapporteur, i believe that we need not only voluntary but also binding common rules in the eu. so i voted for this report with that reservation.
mr president, the introduction of minimum standards for the safety of cosmetic products is an important step towards ensuring a substantially higher level of safety for european consumers. this modern regulation also reduces the administrative burden for european manufacturers, which employ 350 000 people. the debate is particularly rich in labelling, because consumers are often misled, and i therefore welcome the fact that claims about effects on products will now have to be documented. there is also - and not only - a very lively debate about the authorisation of nanomaterials and, of course, the elimination of carcinogens from cosmetic products. i do not agree that the notification of the presence of nanomaterials on products should be a warning. the important thing is that we will have a list of permitted nanomaterials that are not harmful but improve the quality of products, but of course there is no reason to cause concern among consumers. it is the minimum standards that should ensure their safety. however, i consider counterfeiting to be a serious problem and also point out the limited capacity of the control authorities at national level to actually check everything. i am pleased that a uniform definition of nanomaterial has been incorporated into the text and also that we will be able to adapt it to other recent scientific findings. i also welcome the fact that the directive is becoming a regulation and will have a greater legal weight, and i therefore welcome this work and congratulate all the rapporteurs on having been able to reach a consensus on such a sensitive issue as the placing of cosmetic products on the european market on the basis of scientific knowledge.
mr. chairman, i'd like to ask the commissioner a question, but i have a different opinion. i am sorry to learn that the european union will not be able to review and register the approximately 900 disinfectants, preservatives and pesticides sold on the european market within 10 years, i.e. by 2010. i'm surprised it takes three more years, and the reporter adds another year. this means delaying harmonisation and thus more protection of the market for these biocidal substances. i think we have no choice but to vote against the extension, because otherwise a number of products would have to be withdrawn from the market. but let me think. it might be a good thing if some products imported from the uncontrolled asian market had to leave our market. it would accelerate the development of alternative, safer substances. i wonder if the commission has tried to cooperate and use the capacities of the laboratories and institutes in the member states to get the original shorter deadline. can the commission or the rapporteur give me an answer to this question?
the rapporteur. - madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly present the report on the urban dimension of cohesion policy. a report looking at the possibilities and involvement of cities in the management and use of european money in the current programming period. a report that provides both guidance and inspiration on how to adapt the rules of the structural funds to better meet the needs of european cities and metropolises. in compiling it, i have drawn not only on scientific studies and expert opinions from interest groups such as the european council of municipalities and regions eurocities, but also on the direct experience and opinions of mayors, mayors, city council officials, project managers and all others involved in european funds. one of the inspiring meetings where we had the opportunity to discuss the urban dimension together was the european urban day event that i organised with partners in prague at the beginning of february as part of the czech presidency of the european union. i would like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner hübner, mr minister svoboda and my colleagues jan olbrycht, jean-marie beaupuy and giselle kallenbach for their participation and active approach. it's only natural that we should be focusing on cities. 80% of the european union's population of some 500 million live in cities. cities are where the vast majority of jobs, businesses and education centres are located. it is in cities that more than 70% of europe's gdp is generated. cities are thus the unquestioned driving force behind economic growth across europe, a fact that is all the more significant in times of crisis. on the other hand, many cities face a number of serious problems. cities and urban areas therefore need special attention in cohesion policy. i would like to highlight two main points in the text of the report. the first is the question of sub-delegation, i.e. the transfer of european funds to cities. although european legislation already allows for the sub-delegation of resources to cities so that they can allocate them to the integrated development plans they create, this option is only marginally used in the member states. one of the main objectives of this report is to promote the role of cities in the cohesion process. cities must be seen not as final beneficiaries but as managers of the territory. cities, which are public administrations with their own budgets, like counties and states, must be given greater responsibility for programming and distributing structural funds in structural aid. the urban dimension should become mandatory. the second key idea is to really harness the potential of the jessica financial instrument. cohesion policy has so far been based exclusively on a system of grants, i.e. non-repayable grants. organisations and individuals submitting projects have become so accustomed to receiving european money and national budget co-financing funds 'for free'. the priority is often the extraction itself, rather than the efficient investment and exploitation of available resources. the principle of subsidiarity sometimes means that part of the structural assistance is not used effectively. e introduction of the jessica financial instrument in the current programming period has created the space for a systemic change in cohesion policy. it's a fact that this space hasn't been used very much. this should be changed in the next programming period. european policy should make greater use of the possibilities of using financial engineering funds such as revolving funds. that's all for now, and i want to thank everyone who helped me with this report.
mr president, i am pleased to note that the czech presidency is pushing for a clear definition of cohesion policy to help the less developed regions. i would also like to call on the commission to come forward with binding legislation to harmonise the conditions for a functioning microcredit market. it's not just in times of crisis that it matters. we need to make it easier for citizens and businesses who cannot obtain loans in the traditional banking sector to access financial resources. experience with consumer credit shows that the union must act in a uniform and effective manner, in particular with regard to control instruments. secondly, i believe that micro-credit should be targeted in particular at projects in the least developed regions of europe, such as those covered by cohesion policy, and at disadvantaged groups of citizens or at highly innovative projects in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i also draw the commission's attention to the risk of micro-credit being used for money laundering. it's a pity we don't have a specific legislative proposal on the table yet.
the rapporteur. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to summarize here the appeals and the polite requests that the european parliament, if this report is adopted, addresses to its partners, the european commission and the member states. it is clear that the first thing to be assessed is the feasibility of mainstreaming the urban initiative into cohesion policy. there is a need to assess the options and to verify the satisfaction of mayors, mayors and councillors with the use of european funds in urban areas. integrated planning, delegation of responsibility, or so-called sub-delegation of resources, or financial engineering tools are certainly tools where a more active approach by the commission is desirable, at least by presenting recommendations or examples of good practice. at the same time, the whole of cohesion policy, not just its urban dimension, needs to be further simplified. the merger of the european regional development fund and the european social fund may be an option in the long term. lastly, it is crucial that the commission regularly measures and evaluates the impact of all policies on urban life, while also discussing the effectiveness of these policies directly with cities. the report therefore calls on the commission and the member states to set up a european high-level platform on urban development and to apply the open method of coordination in urban development policy at european union level, as they do in other areas such as social inclusion. at the same time, it calls for the role of urban areas to be strengthened in the regions for economic change initiative and for the urban audit project to be further developed and regularly updated. without reliable comparative statistics, we would not be able to base our decisions on relevant data. one of the most visible manifestations and effects of european integration is the european funds. we therefore need to involve more of those who are the actual beneficiaries of structural aid in the debate on the desirable form of cohesion policy, not only now before the elections but also after them. they are our fellow citizens and our voters.
mr. chairman, i would like to explain why i abstained on the hutchinson report. as a member of the acp-eu assembly, i agree that development aid is not always effective. it's not well coordinated, it's administratively demanding. the rapporteur says that partner countries do not always identify with the development strategy. the only effective instrument, and i agree, is budgetary aid. but she'd need to be more predictable. i believe that we must first of all align our priorities with those of other financial donors, such as the united states and the countries that support their former colonies. what the rapporteur further underestimated was the impact of china's investment policy in developing countries, which does not pursue the mdgs or any other objectives, but pursues china's commercial interests.
i supported the package of reports by colleagues who criticise the obstacles to the implementation of cohesion policy. i particularly want to talk about the krehl report. i would like to add to today's discussion by pointing out that colleagues forgot to mention that we approved the recovery package negotiated by the czech presidency with the commission two weeks ago. the commission, under pressure from the european parliament, has put forward clear proposals for administrative simplification and, in particular, for a clear flexibility which already allows all those who benefit from the structural funds to move funds between programmes and, which is particularly important for the new member states, to use these funds to cover loans. of course, the next report in this package on microcredit is another supporting element and i only regret that we still do not have clear rules to harmonise the rules for the use of microcredit, which would help in particular small businesses and also municipalities.
ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is a test of the cohesion of the european union. unfortunately, governments take short-term measures in isolation, and one example is scrap metal, which, although it immediately brought positive anti-crisis results, is not coordinated. if we are criticising the us for its anti-competitive and protectionist measures, we should all the more be looking towards a common strategy within the european union. scrap metal helps reduce emissions, increases road safety and prevents unemployment in the automotive industry, which provides a livelihood for 12 million workers and hundreds of thousands of businesses in other sectors. if we have imposed on the automotive industry in cars 21 to achieve high environmental and safety objectives, scrapping, especially in times of crisis, is a good content for the joint action of european governments and should be financed from common funds. i ask the czech presidency to start negotiations on this.
draft resolution of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - mr president, i thank my colleagues for supporting the proposals that i, as rapporteur, put forward in my opinion. this includes referring contentious cases to the european group on ethics in science and technology and shortening data protection to 5 years, which will accelerate innovation. i fully agree that it is necessary to respect the precautionary principle. i would point out, however, that in 12 years, only 86 applications were submitted, 28 new foods were approved, 3 foodstuffs were rejected. the legislation in force so far is not very clear, and we are therefore now unifying the procedure of all member states in this area, simplifying the process of approving and placing new foods on the market. but i don't think the draft report is very happy. i regret that my colleagues are not fully aware of the link with the regulation on genetically modified food and feed. genetically modified foodstuffs, which are now covered by separate regulations, have been excluded from the scope of the regulation and there is no reason to modify them here in duplicate. i therefore object to the proposals concerning animal and environmental protection, feed and genetically modified food. they simply do not fall within the scope of this regulation and rather they make the proposal problematic, even though this is a very important area. i am of course in favour of a regulation which, on the contrary, deals with the rules for food produced by nanotechnology and ensures that food safety is clearly guaranteed for the people of europe.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we must find solutions to the crisis europe, and not only europe, is currently facing. it is indisputable that confidence-building and financial stability support must be part of our efforts, as the european council has finally stated. the problem is who and how to restore that trust. if it's going to be the vast majority of those who have contributed to the current crisis by their greedy actions, and we don't try to support those who create value but cannot influence the way companies and entire economies operate, then it's not going to go very well. i therefore consider those points from the council's discussions on the need to address the social impact of the crisis to be of particular importance. the sharp rise in unemployment is a problem and measures to stimulate employment and prevent job losses are of paramount importance to workers. if it's just the big giants and their management that's going to support each other, then that's not what we're going to be climbing for. i appreciate the focus on strengthening energy security, the energy interconnections of europe and the overall emphasis on the development of infrastructure in this area. this is, among other things, a way of promoting employment, jobs and making a difference for the future. it will certainly prepare us for the next critical moment, and we have the opportunity to prepare for it with the solutions of the present. i think it is right that the irreplaceable role of nuclear energy has been reasserted. although the views on this kind of energy, among others, in our political group, differ diametrically. let me make one further comment on the eastern partnership: in general, of course, i am in favour of the widest possible international cooperation, but here we see a clear effort, and one that is clearly formulated, to bring the countries of the former soviet union closer to the eu and further away from russia. so we define spheres of influence and do things that we're critical of in others.
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the council last week postponed the revision of the unrealistic lisbon strategy. i also welcome the fact that she's postponed the decision on climate finance. in this context, i would like to commend the statement by the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, that the european union should not make any climate commitments unless other countries, in particular the us and china, do the same. i would point out that these completely rational conclusions were reached by the 27 heads of state and the commission in a situation where the union is facing a sharp rise in unemployment and an economic collapse and has not yet adopted the treaty of lisbon. it is clear from this that the treaty of lisbon is not at all necessary for the adoption of such fundamental decisions which are clearly in the interests of the citizens of the member states. it is completely unnecessary and the current rational actions of the european council, based on the existing treaty framework and under czech leadership, are clear proof of this. yesterday, the government of the czech prime minister and the president of the eu council, mirko topolánek, lost confidence. i would remind all those who have the audacity in this parliament to criticise this move by the czech chamber of deputies as irresponsible that this is a democratic decision by the democratically elected parliament of a sovereign member state. the european union is not chaired by the government of the czech republic, but by the czech republic, whose citizens i have the honour to represent here. and i know that my country has such strong bureaucratic-democratic mechanisms that it can clearly meet its obligations at the union level. after the fall of the topolánek government, the strongest political mandate in the czech republic is held by president václav klaus. as you have seen in this parliament, he is a statesman with a strong democratic sense who sees european integration not as a one-way highway of the will of the political and bureaucratic elites, but as a complex process which will only succeed if it is derived from the will of the citizens. the president of the republic, ladies and gentlemen, made it clear to us a few weeks ago that he saw no alternative to the czech republic's membership of the european union. moreover, a majority of the czech citizens consider their country's membership of the union to be beneficial. any concerns about the czech republic's irresponsibility are therefore completely unnecessary. finally, i would like to point out to the head of the sudeten german land council, mp posselt, who publicly regrets the fall of ministers vondra and schwarzenberg and calls on the czech republic to a strong pro-european government, that the czech republic is not the protectorate of bohemia and moravia, but a sovereign state where ministers are appointed by the president of the czech republic and the government is given confidence by the chamber of deputies elected by czech citizens.
ladies and gentlemen, the president of the european council, mirek topolánek, began his speech today in the european parliament with an attack on social democracy. i would say how typical and characteristic of this government. instead of seeking agreement, cooperation and compromise, including in matters of european union governance, prime minister topolánek has sought and continues to seek disputes and conflict. and these qualities and his inability to cooperate are the real cause of the downfall of his government. i would like to remind you again that the government was not formed by the opposition, but by the members of the party and its coalition partner, the green party. i don't want to get into the czech domestic political scene. i would just like to remind the czech republic of the responsibility it has as the presidency country towards the union and towards the citizens of the european union. we have a lot of work to do. the economic and financial crisis has been mentioned here, of course. the eu-us summit will be held in prague. we have an ideal historic opportunity to work with our partners in america on all the issues that are in the global world today, from the economy to the environment to conflict resolution in the middle east, afghanistan and so on. i would like to conclude with a word on lisbon. czech social democracy has always supported the european constitution, czech social democracy has always supported the ratification of the lisbon treaty. that's what happened in the chamber of deputies, and that's what will happen in the czech senate when it comes to the vote. i believe that the civic democratic party will remain, whatever its position, equally state-building, equally pro-european, and will support this document.
mr president, i don't even know who i'm talking to when the czech presidency doesn't even try to be present. congratulations on the outcome of the summit. the increase in the imf, the doubling of the crisis fund, the eastern partnership, support for strategic infrastructure and support for nabucodonosor are the fulfilment of the three e's of the czech presidency. it is a pity that the preparations for copenhagen have been delayed, the czech presidency has not taken advantage of our work on the energy and climate package. that's not what this is about. your presidency, like your government, is a policy of double standards. while in europe you pretend to be sympathetic europeans and great integrators, at home you talk about how we're going to make them pay, you talk about the lisbon treaty as if it were a piece of paper. you failed to integrate your government. the double standard policy included and includes the election of václav klaus as president. an anchorage in western europe that will help us overcome the worst crisis is the goal of millions of czechs and moravians. it cannot be achieved without the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. that is now, and that is your responsibility, seriously threatened. if you are to rule in any form, stand firm for ratification. there are social and political elites in this country who want ratification, who are ready to support whoever gets it. our party, the european democratic party, will do everything to ratify it. the second major handicap is the euro. you can attend the g20 summit, bring europe together for it. it is important that europe sticks to its regulatory measures vis-à-vis the united states and does not simply follow a policy of excessive stimulus packages that could lead to hyperinflation. it's important to have the european securities commission, to keep the stability pact. but what good is that at home when it was your party that excluded us from the eurozone for many years. mr. prime minister, the measures are great. they're just suggestions now. in the words of mrs merkel, what is at stake is implementation. it requires political will and unity to make it a reality. you were talking about a crisis of confidence. that's the whole point. stand up for lisbon, change your attitude to the euro, allow for the quick drawdown of structural funds. otherwise, you can hardly represent 60 to 70% of the czechs and moravians who do not want to sweeten europe, but who want to live in europe normally.
in writing. the single european sky is an expression of the efforts of european states to improve the permeability of airspace for civil aviation. initially, in 2000, the aim was to create functional airspace blocks over europe with a single management. the czech republic was covered by the treaty on the organisation of air traffic at medium altitudes over central europe, for which i was the rapporteur in the chamber of deputies of the czech republic at the time. as the rapporteur, mr marinescu, points out in one of his reports, these agreements have not served their purpose. in the case of the contract i was the rapporteur for, it was cancelled by mutual agreement on grounds of obscenity. the commission has also launched a major programme for the development of air traffic management across europe, sesar, under the 6th framework programme, with the results of this project to be rolled out gradually from 2014, so that the reports related to the single european sky initiative are also timed to the same date. in the reports submitted, the gue/ngl group criticises, in addition to the pressure to liberalise services in the area (air transport), in particular the prioritisation of operating profitability over safety. furthermore, we do not agree to focus exclusively on air traffic managers when the changes will affect all air traffic controllers. finally, before changes are made, there must be extensive consultation with workers' representatives.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have read this report with great interest and i must say that i am somewhat embarrassed by it. the report is divided into 61 points, it is comprehensive, but i would say very confusing. it completely misses or even omits the questions that most move the european and czech public. i lack a clear position on the current global economic crisis and the course of action of the european union and the united states. i am not in favour of the war being waged by some of the european union countries alongside the united states, very unsuccessfully, in afghanistan. this attitude is irresponsibly cautious in the report. what does the challenge 'to come up with a new strategic concept' mean? or to say that we welcome the appointment of richard holbrooke as the sole special envoy for the pakistan-afghanistan region is very inappropriate in a report of this type and is merely a show of mutual support by a group of politicians who were involved in the decision to bomb yugoslavia 10 years ago. and a clear position on the planned construction of elements of the united states national missile defense in central europe, which, by the way, has become a bone of contention in international relations and is launching a weapons program in space, is completely absent here. while the report shows a shift away from the double standard in relation to eastern europe, with a greater focus on international law, overall the report looks like a defence file of the high representative of the european union, javier solana. everything was done well, no major changes are necessary. the material includes calls and a proposal for the establishment of two new eu-us joint bodies. i believe that in future the european parliament should not be presented with literary works of this kind, but with resolutions on how to deal with the fundamental issues that are affecting the world today.
ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to my colleague, milan mon, on his useful and inspiring report on the state of transatlantic relations. since there is no time for a detailed analysis, let me make a few comments. first, the text of point (b) of the resolution does not so clearly state that the treaty of lisbon will enter into force. we don't know that yet. secondly, in the parts where it is right to talk about the need to reform the international financial system, the world bank and the international monetary fund, there is no requirement to reform and to strictly control the rating agencies. they gave banks and insurance companies the highest possible positive ratings, triple a, even when they were full of toxic assets, and they were de facto bankrupt, and their management was paying out billions in the process. third, in paragraph 24, it refers to the report of the american committee of 16 intelligence services, on global trends through 2025. by the way, similar analyses were also carried out in russia and china. the report does not take sufficient account of these analyses. otherwise, she couldn't mention china in just one word. i'll have you know that according to the financial times last week, the three largest banks in the world, measured by market capitalization, are chinese. china's gdp is catching up with the us. the european union should adapt its actions to this. and fourth, in paragraphs 31 and 32, there are a number of correct plans for russia. the need for constructive cooperation is mentioned, but already in paragraph 33 the european union and the united states are called upon to develop a common strategy towards the six countries of the former soviet union where there is a large russian-speaking population and where russians live. ladies and gentlemen, this strategy is to be carried out without the russian federation. if so, i'm afraid it's not a constructive cooperation, but unfortunately it's the seed of a series of conflicts, and i hope we don't want that.
ladies and gentlemen, europe and the united states are facing a whole host of global problems and global challenges. financial and economic crises, the problems of global warming, the problems of terrorism, the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the unresolved problems and conflicts in the middle east, iraq, afghanistan and many other problems. the european union and the united states will not solve any of these problems without the cooperation that is needed here. strategic cooperation, strategic partnership as we have already discussed here. a partnership based on shared values of freedom, human and civil rights, democracy, values that have proven themselves over the last 60 years. with the arrival of a new administration in the united states, there is a tremendous willingness to cooperate. my colleagues and i had the opportunity to visit washington a few weeks ago, to speak not only with the deputy secretaries of the state department, but also with our colleagues in congress, in the senate, in various scientific institutions. there's a willingness to work together, to do things together, to solve things together. so i would like to join the call for us here in the european parliament to work much more closely and intensively with our colleagues. but the strategic cooperation between europe and the united states should not be directed against third countries, against our partners like russia or china. for example, the problems of disarmament, nuclear arms control cannot be solved without cooperation with russia. that is why i welcome, for example, the resumption of talks on the start treaty, and that is why i welcome discussions with our russian partners on the issue of us missile defence in europe. this is all important. in conclusion, i would like to wish the czech presidency success at the forthcoming summit in prague and thank mr milán móna for his report.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i should like to thank you for all your contributions. as i said in my introductory remarks, in the last months we have seen steps made by the belarus authorities that go towards the expectations formulated in the october 2008 council conclusions. these steps are significant in the belarus context. at the same time, the picture is mixed, and i think the debate here confirmed that. we would like see further steps, such as the changes to the criminal court, registration of other media outlets and ngos in belarus. during the future review of the restrictive measures, the situation in belarus and steps made by the government will be taken into account. the progress in areas listed in the october 2008 council’s conclusions will be evaluated; we are already doing this on a permanent basis, and also discussing progress with the members of the opposition – for example, i met alexander kazulin in prague just a week ago. subject to progress made towards democracy, human rights and the rule of law, we remain ready to deepen our relations with belarus. i believe that we can offer belarus concrete incentives within the eastern partnership, but not only. now let me turn to the lively debate here on the eastern partnership launching summit and in particular the level of participation of belarus. listen carefully: no decision has yet been taken on this issue, which requires consensus within the eu. it will be addressed closer to the summit and i do not want to speculate at this stage. but the pressure itself is simply the fact that no invitation has yet been issued. i should like to thank you once again for this interesting debate and your valuable input. we very much appreciate the interest and active involvement of the european parliament on belarus. we are also encouraged by your support for the eu’s policy of engagement. belarus is an important neighbour of the eu and, therefore, developments there are of concern to all of us. it is important that we send a clear and consistent message to minsk and i am pleased that parliament has been able to support us on this. engagement is important since it offers us the best way of securing the sort of changes which we wish to see in belarus and which are important to the eu’s wider interests. as i said in my opening remarks, i stand ready to keep this parliament informed of developments, and i am sure that also goes for the future presidencies, not least in relation to the future in-depth review agreed by the council last week.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again very quickly. indeed, as we know, belarus has made some progress, but of course much remains to be done. it is also clear that the policy of isolation towards belarus is outdated and that dialogue is the only effective way to influence the democratic future of this country. naturally, madam president, this is a critical dialogue, that is absolutely clear. the european union has committed itself to following very closely developments on the following five key issues: political prisoners, electoral legislation, freedom of the media, freedom of ngos and freedom of assembly. regular reports are being drawn up and will be drawn up by our heads of mission in minsk, and the human rights dialogue will complete this process. of course, other issues remain, including the question of university. we have asked for an assessment of progress on the five points mentioned and i believe that this is necessary. we must also give our word that if we see progress, then we too will take some first steps. for our part, it is a necessary process, which is still quite young and which requires our continuing attention. this requires control. now i would also like to say that - we have heard, i hope it is absolutely correct and true - bilateral agreements have been concluded between belarus and certain countries, particularly italy, on child-related matters. i think that is very important and we are still seeing progress. the situation is also clear on the issue of visas. member states may reduce, on an individual basis, the contributions, the visa fee, for specific categories, including citizens. but we cannot yet make a general agreement on visa facilitation, because that would naturally require the implementation of the entire eastern partnership or the neighbourhood policy. finally, on the question of nuclear energy, i can tell you that a commission delegation did visit belarus in november last year. we have had a dialogue on energy and exchanged views on the question of international security and safety at the highest level. of course, we will maintain this position.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i am very grateful to you for the opportunity to speak to you on a subject which has particular significance both to the presidency and to all of us. it is also a subject which touches the heart of what it means to be part of the european union. twenty years ago, much of central and eastern europe, including my own country, succeeded in throwing off the shackles of communist rule. it was a turning point for us and for europe. it opened the way for the rediscovery of individual freedom: freedom of speech and freedom of action – and also freedom to improve the quality of our lives. the czech presidency considered that the 20th anniversary of this event should be commemorated as an important milestone in european history. it is an opportunity not only to remember the fall of the iron curtain, but also to draw lessons from the totalitarian past across europe as a whole. it was subsequently agreed that 2009 be designated as the 20th anniversary of democratic change in central and eastern europe. the czech presidency is particularly pleased that this has been included as one of the communication priorities agreed between the institutions for 2009. in fact it was our proposal. the member states have been encouraged, and have agreed, to include this theme as appropriate within their communication activities for the year. i am grateful to this parliament for its support for the czech presidency and its willingness to participate in a number of events linked to this theme. i would like in particular to thank many members for their support in organising a public hearing on the issue of ‘european conscience and crimes of totalitarian communism’ last week in brussels, where we were together with commissioner figeľ. this parliament has proposed that a day be set aside to remember the victims of nazism and totalitarian communism. it is for individual member states to decide whether and how they might wish to associate themselves with such an event. speaking for the czech presidency, i can assure this parliament that we are willing to give our support to such an initiative. the presidency has also launched an initiative to establish a platform of european memory and conscience, with the aim of raising public awareness about european history and the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. i am pleased that this initiative has given rise to considerable interest among member states, many of whom have underlined the importance of focusing on democratic values and respect for fundamental rights as key principles underpinning the european union. there are several reasons why there is value in commemorating such an event and in establishing a permanent communication and research project such as the platform proposed by the czech presidency. firstly, we owe it to those who suffered as result of totalitarian crimes not just to remember their experience at the hands of overbearing and unaccountable state regimes, but also to confront the past collectively. only by reconciling ourselves to history can we truly break away from the bonds imposed by the regimes of the past. secondly, it is only by appreciating fully the suffering brought about by such regimes that we can fully understand the present. the european union stands for everything that is the opposite of totalitarianism. for those of us who emerged from the grip of communism, membership of the european union is one of the main guarantees that we will never again revert to totalitarianism. this is a guarantee which we all share. it is something to be valued and never taken lightly. a collective conscience and memory of the past is a way of reinforcing the value of the present. thirdly, we owe it for the sake of our children. there are lessons to be learnt from our totalitarian past. perhaps most important of these is the need for respect for human rights and fundamental values. human rights and freedom cannot be taught in a vacuum. the seeds of human rights violations lie in history, sometimes in distant history. knowledge of history, and an understanding of the dangers of totalitarianism, are essential if we are to avoid repeating some of the more terrible events of the past. it is not just cynicism and manipulation which have to be avoided: apathy and insensitivity have also to be overcome. the european elections will be taking place in a few months’ time and i hope that they will be marked by lively and vigorous debate. that is the hallmark of democracy. it is something we should value. i very much believe that the subject of our debate today rises above party politics. it is about values more important than party differences. it is about how we organise our societies in a way which ensures that everyone has a voice and an opportunity to express their views. given the recent history of my country i have focused in particular on the tragedy of totalitarian communist rule. but there are relatively few countries represented in this parliament today which have not been touched by totalitarianism in one form or another over the past century. any system which places the state above criticism and challenge, any system which places the creativity of people at the mercy of the regime, any system which diminishes the individual has no place in the sort of societies which we seek to build within the framework of the european union. i therefore offer my support, and that of the czech presidency, for the initiatives presented by this parliament, and look forward to working together in supporting them through greater public awareness and recognition.
member of the commission. − madam president, a year ago, in april 2008, a hearing was held for the first time in the european union on the crimes committed by totalitarian regimes. the hearing, organised jointly by the commission and the slovene presidency, marked the start of a process, and the commission is determined to pursue this process step by step. this is a difficult but necessary process, as it is not just an important issue which will help us to understand the european union’s common history, the past, better, but also one which affects the future of european integration – a process which is not just economic but of course also has cultural and historical ramifications. it is of course for the member states to find their own way forward in taking decisions to deal with victims’ expectations and promote reconciliation. the european union’s role can only be to facilitate this process by encouraging discussion and furthering the sharing of experiences and best practices. the commission regards parliament’s written declaration on the proclamation of 23 august as a european day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism as an important initiative, which it supports in the interests of preserving the memory of totalitarian crimes and raising public awareness, particularly among the younger generations. the hearing of 8 april 2008 showed that the member states in western europe need to be more aware of the tragic history of the member states in the east, which is also part of our shared, common, european history. we must respond to this lack of sensitivity if we are to avoid the union being divided on a serious issue which should instead unite us. the commission hopes that the parliaments of the member states, to which this declaration is addressed, will implement this declaration in the manner most appropriate in the light of their own history and sensibilities. the commission is now focussing its attention on the report which it will submit in 2010 – next year – as the council has requested. this report will provide the opportunity for further political debate on the need for new eu initiatives. to prepare the ground for this report, a study has been launched with the aim of providing a factual overview of the various legal instruments, methods and practices used in the member states to safeguard the memory of totalitarian crime. the study will be completed by the end of this year. we are also drawing on the contributions made at the hearing and published by the slovene presidency. the prague declaration of 3 june 2008 on european conscience and communism contains a number of ideas and propositions that will also be taken on board when preparing this report. the commission is willing to examine what scope it has to contribute to projects such as a european memory and conscience platform, which was just mentioned by deputy prime minister vondra, which is designed to promote information exchanges and networking between national organisations active in this field. more generally the commission will examine how community programmes, for example, the one i am responsible for – europe for citizens – might help heighten european public awareness on these issues. i am looking forward to the debate.
madam president, mr president, mr commissioner, it is a great honour to speak today. in 2005, we adopted a resolution to mark the 60th anniversary of the end of the second world war. we have found that there is not enough political will in the european parliament and the union to engage in a common understanding and appreciation of european history. while the victims of fascism and nazism were given honorable reparations, the millions of victims of communism were not remembered. i am therefore pleased to announce that the resolution on the conscience of europe and totalitarianism that most of the political families in this house have been working on this afternoon is almost complete. europe will not be united until west and east begin to study, learn, dialogue and understand each other's histories of fascism, communism and nazism. in order to live in europe with a common understanding of the future, we have drawn up a question to the council and the commission on the basis of the council of europe resolution and the council framework decision against racism and xenophobia and on the basis of the prague declaration process. i therefore ask the council and the commission: what will you do in particular to establish a platform of scientific institutes in the east and the west to study the crimes of communism, nazism and fascism? commission, will you provide funding from the europe for citizens instrument? how do you support the establishment of august 23 as the day of the victims of totality? how do you, the council and the commission, approach the equal symbolic honour of the victims of totalitarian communism? what will the council and the commission do to deal with the legacy of totalitarian communism as a crime against humanity, comparable in its consequences to nazism and fascism? finally, will the czech presidency pass on its exceptional role to the next swedish presidency?
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the attempt to say that communism is the same as nazism or fascism, and the creation of new so-called institutions or platforms for research, all have the appearance of political expediency. the radical right needs it because it's before the election. it's not an objective, truly independent assessment. there are enough historical institutions and places to do that. of course i'm not blind, even under so-called communism there were repressions, acts of injustice and violence. yes, wrongdoing needs to be investigated and justly punished. but fellow osd member jan zahradil also said at the hearing: "it is both right and wrong to identify communism with german nazism. it has to be contextual and analytical. so if someone does not want to see the difference between communists and nazis, between communists of years ago and today or between people like me who, after a democratic election, represent a number of communist voters here in parliament, then they try to throw me into the same bag with the nazis.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the report by mrs batzel on food prices in europe. the report is based on the idea that free price formation in the food market is a bad solution and calls for the introduction of price regulation in this sector of the economy. this view is contrary to common sense and the historical experience of all post-communist states, including the czech republic. we've had 100% price regulation, and we remember well that it didn't work. free price-setting is the foundation of freedom and democracy in general, and any restriction on it is a path to totalitarianism. free pricing in the food sector has produced excellent results in recent years in the form of relatively declining food prices across the european union. it also brought about a major modernisation which brought customers a better quality of goods at lower prices. this positive development would be stopped altogether by the regulatory proposals contained in the report and would only result in higher food prices. the fact that there is fierce competition in this sector is great news for consumers. those with higher costs than market prices must adapt to this situation in their own interest or leave the market. it's absurd that their losses are paid for by their customers' taxes. for these reasons, i voted against this report.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with the wording of the questions as formulated by mrs doris pack. i believe that the full support of europe's regions is very important. in europe, borders have existed for centuries, separating states and nations, creating a psychological no man's land. but after the borders, which we have fortunately been able to remove thanks to the schengen process, there are still regions that are divided, cities that are divided in half, and above all the psychological problem that one part of the territory belongs there and the other part belongs elsewhere. an integrated europe is healing these old scars on the map and in people's minds, safely but slowly. the quickest way to consolidate them, and far more effective and efficient than any top-down approach, is to support the activities of citizens' initiatives, cultural organisations and regional institutions. these regional institutions and the citizens themselves living in the territory know best what needs to be done to revitalize their regions. there are a number of projects whose implementation is a step forward and also an impetus for further action. i myself come from the region of north moravia, from silesia, from the area where the czech territory meets the polish and slovak. and it was there, in the region of historic teschenia, which today comprises the towns of cesky teschen and cieszyn in poland, that the project 'the garden of two rivers' was born. a river runs between the two cities, which were once one urban entity. the project is preparing to link the two riverbanks not only urbanistically but also architecturally and above all culturally. the cultural activities of the population must link the two disparate parts of what was once a cohesive whole. the river between the two cities and its surroundings is to become a place of cultural exchange and cultural fusion. however, an important aspect of such projects is that they create new job opportunities not only during the work but also afterwards. the services sector is certainly expanding, the attractiveness of the area is increasing, and the potential for tourism and other related business forms is being encouraged. the authors of the 'garden of two rivers' project were inspired by the model of strasbourg in france and kehl in germany, which also sit so close together that they form a natural urban structure. and the rhine river flows between the two cities. what is possible in france and germany may also be possible in the czech republic and poland or elsewhere in europe. there are many more cases of this kind in central europe. when we talk about the contribution of culture to the development of european regions, these are the projects that come to mind. the european union, the commission and the european parliament should support cultural projects of this kind as they have done in the past and even more so. sometimes the authors of citizens' initiatives rightly complain that these activities are unduly hampered by complex administration or overly complicated structures in the relevant ministries and offices.
mr president, allow me to thank mr onyszkiewicz for producing this important, well-written and balanced report. as the epp-ed shadow rapporteur, i am pleased that the report also reflects our main priorities in relation to russia, such as pragmatic cooperation based on a healthy market environment, the emphasis on human rights, the functioning of the rule of law and democracy, which are fundamental to the eu as a community of values, the emphasis on respect for the sovereignty of all neighbours and the unity of the european union. the negotiations for a new agreement, which must cover all aspects of cooperation and be legally binding, reflect the quality of our relations with russia. but if the course of the talks is to reflect our attitudes and values, we must not forget russia's role in last summer's georgian war or the january gas crisis. we cannot allow the creation of new spheres of influence in europe. we cannot accept the status quo, or rather the fait accompli in the caucasus. therefore, the requirement for clear guarantees that russia will not use force against any of its neighbours and common neighbourhood disputes will be resolved in agreement with the eu. in our view, it is only natural to call on russia to take the first step towards building trust. many colleagues today will rightly stress the need for eu unity in relation to russia. but a truly unified position will only be achieved by gradual steps, hence my proposal within the council to set up a functioning consultation mechanism which would allow member states to consult each other sufficiently in advance on any bilateral issues with russia which may have an impact on another member state or on the european union as a whole. only in this way will we achieve a truly united policy towards russia, only in this way will we make full use of the greatest advantage we have over russia, namely our own unity.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing our recommendation to the council for a new treaty with russia. but the text of the report does not strike me as a recommendation for diplomatic negotiations. the overwhelming majority of the document uses only phrases and formulations about the need to demand, insist, emphasize, challenge, and so on. our vocabulary is dictatorial, and i'm quite glad i'm not in the role of negotiator who should be bound by such recommendations. at the same time, we acknowledge that a quarter of the eu's oil and gas supply comes from russia, among other sources. sometimes i think we're trying to ask for a safe, stable supply of vital raw materials with a stick in our hand. and what do we as the european union put on the table? where is our position on the human rights that we are protecting ourselves with, for example, the rights of russian-speaking minorities in the territory of the member states of the union? where is our view of the gatherings and actions of former ss members in the union countries? or are we not against them and support them, contrary to, for example, the conclusions of the un? and why can the itre committee name the two states behind the problem of natural gas supplies to the eu, that is, besides russia and ukraine, but only russia challenges our recommendations? it's all a bit like trying to play one-goal football. and that's not, as you'll agree, a full game. we should not expect miraculous results. personally, i'm going to have a hard time supporting the document in this form. even in the foreign affairs committee, a full third of the members were against the proposal. for example, the committee on international trade has approached relations with russia with a much greater sense of reality in terms of what europe really needs.
ladies and gentlemen, in the draft recommendation of this parliament to the council on the new agreement between the european union and russia which we are discussing today, perhaps only two facts can be agreed. first, that russia is of enormous importance for stability and prosperity in europe and the world, and second, that it is necessary to achieve a strategic partnership with russia based on democratic values. otherwise, i must say that the text is written in the language of the victorious powers of the cold war and denies all the basic rules of diplomacy and international relations. they're about compromise, decency, balance and respect for the other side of the table. they're not about protective orders and harsh sentences. the terminology and wording of the report recall the letter of the proud sultan to the west-porozhye cossacks, who then also gave him a proper reply. the inappropriate anti-russian text partially preserves the objective expression of the committee on industry, research and energy, which could become a guide in the formulation of a new document. the present report is, in my view, damaging to the european union and the russian federation and thus to the interests of all citizens of the euro-asian area. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the eu-russia summit, which will be chaired by the czech presidency, will not be marked by this russophobic rhetoric. among other things, because the czech president does not share the eu's mainstream view of the russian-georgian conflict. i am convinced that the council should bear in mind, in the interests of the citizens, that russia is and will be a necessary, useful and equal partner in our geopolitical space. as mentioned, a quarter of the eu's oil and gas supply comes from russia and half of russian oil and gas travels to us. if nothing else, this fact is a sufficient argument for the pursuit of good neighbourly relations between the european union and the russian federation.
the report presented by our colleague mr onyszkiewicz is undoubtedly one of the most important documents to come at the end of our electoral mandate. i must say i am very, very disappointed with the contents of this report. one of the few things i can agree with is that we all see good relations with russia as a key issue. the wording of the report seems to me unbalanced and i am convinced that in its original form it will not contribute to improving our mutual relations. i regard it as a misunderstanding, to put it mildly, that the report intends to entrust the consultation powers to the eu high representative. if it is mr solana, i say for myself that the man who launched the senseless so-called humanitarian bombing of yugoslavia ten years ago and who, in violation of international law, is organizing the secession of part of a sovereign state, does not have my trust. i see an imbalance in the fact that he criticizes russia for its support program for its citizens abroad and, on the other hand, keeps silent about the status of non-citizens russian-speaking in the union. i also think that the report deliberately omits the problem of the so-called polish card, which is contrary to international law.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has proposed that all member states should be able to invest the structural funds in the conversion and repair of panel buildings and other buildings. this is particularly important for the czech republic, where up to 26% of the population live in outdated panel houses. if the bill is voted on tomorrow and formally approved by the council of ministers in april, it will open up the possibility for the czech republic to invest another 16 billion crowns in insulation of apartments and houses. i also personally welcome the removal of the reference to use only for low-income households, which i consider problematic already because national rules define it in different ways. in my view, member states should be able to decide which categories of buildings are eligible for funding according to their own rules and to set their own criteria according to their needs. we need to improve the quality and affordability of housing for everyone, not just those living in social housing. it is regrettable that we were not able to encourage more investment in housing and to introduce this measure across the union until the financial crisis. but i definitely welcome the decision, because people have to weigh every dollar, every euro, and in this way we help them save on their heating and hot water bills and reduce the cost of housing. in fact, according to an estimate by cecodhas, a european household can save on average €450 a year on these expenses, and that is already tangible help.
mr president, i would like to ask you to include the following commission statement on the record, with the text as agreed and adopted. ‘independently of the adoption of the ecolabel regulation, the commission confirms that it intends to propose a regulation on ecolabelling of fishery products before the end of this year, to be mainly based on criteria for sustainable fishing. the study foreseen in article 6(5)(a) of the ecolabel regulation, dealing with additional aspects such as processing, pre-packaging, packaging and transport, which will examine the flexibility of the extension of the scope of the ecolabel regulation to food, including the products of fishing and aquaculture, will not influence or prejudge the adoption of this regulation’.
mr. chairman, the presence of a significant number of migrant pupils has significant implications for the education system. there is clear and unequivocal evidence that many children from migrant families have a lower level of education than their peers. schools must adapt to their presence and systematically integrate it into their traditional curriculum to provide high quality education. education is key to ensuring that these pupils can become fully integrated, successful and productive citizens of the host country, so that migration benefits both migrants and the host country. i welcome the report by mr takkula and have therefore also supported it.
one of the goals we set for ourselves in lisbon in 2000 was the knowledge society. even though we know now that we will have to step back from our goals, or rather that we will reach them later, we must not slacken in the activities leading up to them. that is why i also supported the report by mr schmitt, which seeks to outline possible problems in the field of education that need to be addressed. education is often the cornerstone needed to achieve goals. the level of education attained has a direct impact on young people's employability and therefore their participation in society, and we cannot afford to waste this potential, even in the current economic crisis.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to deal with the whole of the so-called energy package in the limited time available. but first, i want to thank all those who have contributed to the materials that we have on our table. but let's be realistic here. the result is far from perfect. however, i think that at the time, it was impossible to achieve more. the fact that the current parliament's term of office is coming to an end certainly played a part in this. i would like to make a personal comment on the material presented by mr chichester on the establishment of an agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. as a shadow rapporteur, i have, among other things, advocated for the agency to contribute to the creation of regional markets. so far, no ambition has been fulfilled that would be even more beneficial. this would be the creation of a supranational pan-european regulator. i also pushed for the confirmation of the commission's original proposal to maintain the principle of one member, one vote in the board of regulators' decision-making. this is very important for small eu countries. the attempt by large countries, especially germany and france, to enforce the so-called weighted ratio would put small countries at a disadvantage. for example, the czech republic, but also other countries, will be better able to counter the dominance efforts of some large transmission system operators by maintaining the principle. in this respect, i am glad that my efforts have not been in vain, and i consider this a success of the czech presidency. not everything about the agency for regulatory cooperation has been completed. for example, the question of the seat is still open. personally, i'd like to see the agency in slovakia, which is interested in it. however, the most unfortunate solution would be the so-called interim option and the agency would remain in brussels. there are already enough of them, even as a result of the original temporariness.
in writing. in the context of the debate on the report on the rights of passengers in transport, i would like to draw attention to a fact which is not so much about protecting consumers' interests as it is about breaching the principle of free movement of persons within the schengen area. specifically, it concerns the movement of persons across the czech-german border. not only i personally, but also representatives of regional and municipal authorities on the czech-german border are faced with increasingly frequent complaints from citizens of the czech republic about being harassed by the german police after either public transport or private vehicles cross the czech-german border. citizens complain that they are stopped by plain-clothes police officers, checked and even questioned about the destination and purpose of their trip to germany without any reason. the german police are harassing in the truest sense of the word and their actions are in direct contradiction to the principles of free movement of persons within the eu. i stress that such cases are becoming more frequent and i urge the eu institutions to negotiate a remedy to this unacceptable situation.
the commission's proposal aims to create european rail freight corridors and also to lay down rules for their management and administration. the commission's proposal seeks to increase the competitiveness of rail freight transport, and i would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge this. the committee on transport and tourism has considered the commission proposal. a total of 250 amendments were tabled to the proposal. the negotiations resulted in a compromise that won support across the political spectrum. the compromise is based mainly on the desire to optimise rail transport as a whole, while maintaining sufficient flexibility to deal with crisis situations. the text proposed by the commission has also been clarified and simplified. the scope for legitimate national interests in the creation of corridors and in their management and administration has been highlighted. compared to the commission proposal, the railway undertakings' position within the administration was strengthened. the organisations concerned by european rail freight corridors are also given a stronger position. comments on cooperation with third countries concerned by the corridor were accepted. a number of changes are aimed at achieving a better balance between passenger and freight rail transport. the requirement for transparent decision-making in the allocation of route categories and also in the establishment of priority rules for fast freight trains was also accepted. in conclusion, let me thank the shadow rapporteurs and staff of the european parliament for their cooperation and you for your patience.
the rapporteur. - the debate that has taken place has shown a fairly broad consensus across the political spectrum. i want to thank both the shadow reporters and all the debaters for that. i believe the greatest concern is the possibility of a collision between a freight train and a passenger train. the text proposed takes account of this danger and leaves sufficient flexibility for the operators to deal with crisis situations. as far as the smooth running of railway operations is concerned, there should of course be no such conflict and the debate on the priority of rail transport for one or the other is no longer relevant. so this is really just a potential conflict in times of crisis, but as i've already indicated, the key here is to keep enough power in the hands of the operators, and that's the spirit in which this document is being developed.
dear madam secretary, ladies and gentlemen, for many years i have been critical of the european court of justice's determination of patients' rights to payment of expenses abroad. it guarantees that citizens do not have to wait for their insurance company to give them permission to go to the doctor when they need to, and that they are entitled to at least the same amount of reimbursement as they would have to pay at home, because this should not be an obstacle to the free movement of persons. it's in the treaties, but for five years the socialists have fought against this right. meanwhile, governments lost more lawsuits against their citizens. we've heard the insurance lobby say it's going to collapse a hundred times. they're afraid that patients will go to a country where they don't have to wait months or years for surgery like they do at home. therefore, before expensive treatment, the patient will have to obtain prior authorization from his insurance company. patients, but also doctors across the union, need a simple rule on when they have to apply for a licence. so i'm not going to support the proposal to create 27 definitions of specialized and expensive care for this purpose. it's hypocritical because it's the amount of money that insurance companies are willing to pay for treating their citizens abroad. so why not just put it in euros? i have promoted proposals to develop a system for improving the quality and safety of health care, making the results of objective quality assessment of health facilities available. it's about national or international accreditation of hospitals. the compromise proposal is more general, but it is still an important impetus for countries that do not yet have such systems. i believe that soon all hospitals will be granted voluntary national or european accreditation, i.e. quality assurance, as hospitals in the czech republic already have. i also think that the commission should not identify but only coordinate border regions as pilot areas where cross-border healthcare projects can be tested. i regret that the socialists here hypocritically continue to fight against the clarification of patients' rights in the european union under false pretenses.
i have here an explanation of the vote on the crowley report copyright age. i voted against a bill that is thoughtless, but it's supposed to affect the price of music for the end consumer 45 years down the road. i want to help the ordinary artists, and that requires legislation to regulate the terms of contracts and collective management and to set up a social security system, pension insurance or change the licensing tariffs. impact studies point out that only 2% of the revenue is distributed among mainstream artists, with the rest going to record companies and the biggest artists. the resulting redistribution will hurt young up-and-coming artists and consumers, and taxpayers will pay hundreds of millions of euros more. the bill complicates the lives of libraries, archives, art schools and independent filmmakers. it's not clear what the impact is on audiovisual artists. all the legal authorities warn against the proposal, and that's why i was against it.
ladies and gentlemen, the decision of the g20 summit to pour a trillion dollars into the international monetary fund to fight the crisis i consider counterproductive and harmful. and there are three reasons for that. first, this commitment will force creditor countries to tap foreign exchange reserves or to go into debt. secondly, this commitment paradoxically forces to contribute to the fund even those countries which the imf permanently harms by its incompetent analyses. i am referring to the czech republic, whose citizens i represent here. although the fund's projections for my country are completely out of touch with reality, the czech citizens will contribute $1.4 billion to it. and third, the imf will lend money to states on much softer terms than it has done in the past and will not push for a loan condition that is a realistic proposal for measures to solve the borrower's economic problems. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that this is distorting the international credit market to the detriment of the taxpayers.
ladies and gentlemen, even in the midst of the economic crisis, the european union must not forget the commitment it has given to the countries of the western balkans, namely the future enlargement of the union. i therefore welcome this debate and the clear confirmation of the commitment to future enlargement. european integration is in the vital interest of all the people of the western balkans, including those of bosnia and herzegovina, a country to which we are paying special attention in today's debate. in this context, it is recalled that the prospects of membership of the union were offered to bosnia and herzegovina as a whole country and not to its individual entities. for this reason, and we have repeated this many times here the reforms required for accession to the union must be carried out effectively. constitutional reform in bosnia and herzegovina should result in a functioning central state with adequate legislative, budgetary, executive and judicial powers so that the state maintains a functioning single market, promotes political, economic and social cohesion and also defends the country's interests abroad, including, one day, as a member of the european union. in conclusion, let me call on the western balkan countries, the council and the commission to step up their efforts to abolish the visa regime. visa-free travel and free movement of persons would greatly assist the western balkan countries on their way to the european union.
the president-in-office of the council. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to take part in this debate today. i would like to thank in particular the european parliament for its interest in this issue and mrs angelica beer for the work she has done as rapporteur in producing this interesting report. the council will certainly study the recommendations contained therein carefully. as the report makes clear, it is important to make further progress on non-proliferation. one of the main priorities is to ensure a positive and concrete outcome of the npt review conference to be held next year. the upcoming may meeting of the preparatory committee of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is an important step in preparing for this conference. the european union will continue to contribute positively to the review process, in line with its strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and in line with the recent statement on strengthening international security adopted by the council in december 2008. we are interested in a balanced review that, in order to maintain the overall balance that underpins the nuclear non-proliferation regime, attaches equal importance to all three pillars of the npt, i.e. non-proliferation, disarmament and peaceful uses. we believe that a balanced approach is the key to the success of the evaluation conference. the european union is aware of the new opportunities for the npt, in particular in the context of the renewed us-russia dialogue, the renewed commitment to ensure the entry into force of the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and the launch of international negotiations on a verifiable treaty to prevent the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons. the european union also welcomes the renewed public debate on the ways to achieve the objectives of the npt. one of the reasons why the review process is so important is that the npt regime is facing serious problems. these problems are mainly coming from the dprk, iran and syria. they need to be addressed and resolved by strengthening the compliance mechanism. as we all know, the european union is active in this area and continues to play a leading role with partners, in particular in the efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the iranian nuclear issue. as the report states, in addition to non-proliferation, we must also address the issue of nuclear disarmament. we are determined to play a key role in this important area. the european union is indeed committed to promoting nuclear disarmament and thus to achieving the objective of article 6 of the non-proliferation treaty. this is a subject of particular importance for the european union, whose two member states have nuclear weapons. we call on the international community to join in promoting the concrete, realistic disarmament initiatives that the european union presented to the un general assembly in 2008.we also need to address the issue of nuclear energy. it is important that the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes takes place under conditions of maximum safety, security and non-proliferation standards. the european union stands ready to strengthen international cooperation in this area both in the context of the next npt review conference and in other fora. in particular, multilateral approaches to nuclear fuel supply can offer a credible alternative to developing national programmes of their own in the area of sensitive nuclear technologies. there is a need to increase the attractiveness of multilateral mechanisms for the supply of nuclear fuel, in particular for developing countries. an increasing number of these countries are now considering nuclear power programs. the report rightly emphasises the importance of ratifying the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty. the european union attaches particular importance to progress in ratification and will pursue progress towards this objective. the presidency held high-level demarches with the nine countries whose ratification is still required for the treaty to enter into force. we are working towards the success of the conference to be held in new york in september 2009 under article 14 of the treaty to promote the entry into force of the treaty. the european union is an important contributor to the construction of the treaty monitoring system and thus strengthens the credibility of the future treaty verification system. we also believe that it would be very beneficial to make a credible effort to start negotiations on a verifiable fsm treaty. the positive approach taken recently by the us towards the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty and the fissile materials treaty, as well as in the field of nuclear disarmament, is very encouraging. we really believe that this approach will lead to some very concrete actions in the near future. more generally, this new opportunity can play an important role in steering the npt review process in the right direction.
member of the commission. − mr president, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction has arisen as a serious challenge in recent years, and the international community must be ready to face those challenges with conviction and to tackle them resolutely. in our view, there has been some progress with the new us administration in the context of the negotiations on the non-proliferation treaty (npt), and positive dynamics on arms control between russia and the united states should clear the path for a new momentum on nuclear issues. for the european union, the npt is based on three mutually reinforcing pillars: non-proliferation, disarmament and the peaceful use of nuclear energy. ms beer’s report on nuclear non-proliferation gives me a welcome opportunity to describe the community’s responsibilities and activities under these three pillars. under the euratom treaty the commission is responsible for verifying that fissile nuclear materials, like plutonium, uranium and thorium, are not diverted from their intended uses, as declared by the community users, whether in the nuclear industry or others, like research centres and medical institutes. the commission is currently developing an action plan on how best to address chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear terrorism threats. this policy will be put forward in the middle of this year, with recommendations on further strengthening a culture of safety and security among the 27 member states. moreover, the eu export control system is another key component of our weapons of mass destruction prevention policy. the commission action on non-proliferation and disarmament does not stop at the frontiers of the union. with the new instrument for stability and the nuclear safety instrument – together taking up almost eur 1 billion of the financial perspective – there is an opportunity for the commission to enhance its worldwide contribution to non-proliferation by promoting security and safety throughout the world in the coming years. the purpose of the community instruments is to develop complete programmes of threat reduction that will offer to third countries a full range of possible cooperation on export control, border monitoring, maritime surveillance, redirection of scientists, bioscience and nuclear safety. the logic of coherent programmes is very much in line with the g8 global partnership goals that were defined in 2002, where the commission committed eur 1 billion for the 10-year period 2002-2013. finally, initiatives to build a new model for civil nuclear cooperation should also be encouraged so that countries can get access to nuclear energy without increasing the risks of proliferation. the international fuel bank of iaea, to which the commission plans to contribute eur 20 million, is a step in the right direction, provided we can explain the rationale that supports such a programme. in conclusion, the commission is working quite hard in supporting all three pillars of the non-proliferation treaty, and, indeed, both the time and the international climate are ripe for change in the way we handle nuclear issues. the commission stands ready to work with others and seize the great opportunities before us and to strive to create a safer and more secure world also in this regard.
for the ppe-de group. the name of us president obama will be in a lot of buzz today, especially in connection with his speech in prague on april 5th. our task is not to evaluate the approach of the new us administration, but to make recommendations to the council today that will prepare the european union's position on the future of the nuclear non-proliferation regime. our parliament will only be taken seriously in this debate if it promotes a clear solution that is realistic in all respects. the recipe of our group is therefore to use all available international instruments rather than creating new ones. strengthen all three closely linked pillars of the npt, namely nuclear disarmament, nuclear non-proliferation and peaceful cooperation in nuclear technologies. therefore, it is important to support realistic disarmament initiatives with a clearly defined process for the control and verification of both the destruction of existing weapons and the means of their production. in the context of strengthening the pillar of cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear technologies, we also strongly support the internationalisation of the uranium enrichment cycle, in particular through the creation of an international fuel bank. i am very pleased that the outcome of the vote in committee clearly reflects our positions. i'm confident that after president obama's speech, there's no reason to change the outcome of the committee. the american president has confirmed that the road ahead is long, that it requires more realism than naivety, and that nothing is more important than concrete, actionable steps. but in negotiating with the new american administration, we face an important and difficult task. we must ensure that these issues are not decided between the major nuclear powers over the heads of the european union. this is a major challenge for european diplomacy.
mr. chairman, i'll take 30 seconds. i want to say that i am glad that it was the czech presidency during which the pmoi organization was removed from the list of banned organizations of the european union, and i am glad that today we continue to protect the opposition against the iranian regime with the resolutions on camp ashraf. i would like to thank all those who have taken part, from all political groups, regardless of their political colour or beliefs, and i hope that this resolution will pass as it was drafted, without amendments that would in any way distort it.
in writing. i am very pleased that today in plenary we have removed from the draft regulation on the harmonization of construction products the serious deficiencies which the socialist rapporteur has included in this technical standard. the big award goes to the shadow reporter zita pleštinská. thanks to her professional experience and her diligence on the imco committee, today's image has a professional level. harmonisation and ce marking for series production will simplify and reduce costs, especially for small enterprises. the non-uniform requirements of the 27 member states are no longer required. the ce marking of conformity for series production provides sufficient assurance that the goods conform to european standards. for prototypes and specific products, harmonisation is not necessary. and only if the construction products are imported into countries where, for example, there is a risk of earthquakes, it is self-evident that the construction product also meets the requirements for these specific conditions. i appreciate the support of the czech presidency for this text.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, mrs lulling has taken on a difficult but necessary task. in most eu member states, carers, especially spouses, have no legal status and their work is not recognised, despite their work accounting for more than 11% of self-employment in the european union. the primary phenomenon is the absence of social security for these persons. for when it comes to voluntary, free choice, many persons will forgo insurance because of the expense. however, the frequent consequence of the situation is that these co-workers find themselves, for example, through the fault of a break-up or the death of a partner, alone, without resources and without entitlement to social benefits or a pension. that is why i support the proposal that social security should be made compulsory in the countries of the european union. but i would like to point out that the insurance of these people must be motivating and therefore affordable.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i too am not indifferent to the suffering of experimental animals, but at the same time i know that as a doctor we must do everything possible to ensure that our patients receive - as the name of the dish says - vaccines and cures for new diseases as well as for old ones as soon as possible. i want to thank the colleagues who have managed to find a really balanced compromise that respects and respects ethical principles in the treatment of animals. a compromise that will allow research to continue, but above all, it's a directive that sends a clear political signal that we want our scientists to look for alternative methods, to validate the research of new drugs in a way that minimizes the number of animals and minimizes the number of tests, and of course, to follow all possible ethical principles so that animals don't suffer. thank you all for this outcome.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, we are discussing the report on energy labelling, which is of the utmost importance for several reasons. firstly, increasing energy efficiency is the quickest and the most cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. secondly, energy efficiency can be part of the solution to the current economic recession: addressing energy demand and energy use can help create long-lasting growth and solid job opportunities. i agree with the intention to ensure that end-users will be able to receive full information on the label, even if the product is bought at a distance, via the internet or telemarketing. the same holds true for the intention to reinforce the provisions on market surveillance in order to ensure proper and eu-wide harmonised enforcement of the energy labelling directive and its implementing measures. there are, however, two points that i must strongly oppose. first, i would like to warn that, if adopted, amendment 32 would hamper the independence of the media. it must be stressed that advertising is key for free, independent, diverse and high-quality media. our group has therefore come up with an alternative amendment – amendment 2 tabled for the plenary – respecting the importance of free and diverse media for democracy. our solution is to give producers and retailers the possibility of providing information on specific energy-consumption-saving aspects. second, i call for the rejection of two motions for a resolution on the implementing measures, rejecting implementing measures on tvs and fridges. this initiative, opposed by industry, the commission and the council, would impair the coherence of the new energy labelling legislation as a whole. let me conclude by stressing that the report on energy labelling is a very important piece of legislation that is worth adopting, provided that the advertising issue is tackled in a satisfactory manner.
madam president, i have spoken on this floor on energy issues on several occasions and this may be my final remark at this stage. i think we should thank commissioner piebalgs, who has had a very difficult task, because to make the 27 individual energy markets of the individual member states a european energy market is an admirable task, a sisyphean task that will not end even with this period and will certainly leave a lot of work for our successors. i would like to say that as far as our committee on industry, research and energy is concerned, he was one of the favourite commissioners. commissioners from whom we have learned a great deal and whose level of commitment we have admired. i hope we have not used the commissioner too much, because i believe we will certainly meet him in future periods, and commissioner piebalgs has really done a lot of work to enable us to talk about the european energy market at all. i support energy labelling, it's a necessary standard, and i think that the guilt about who belongs or doesn't belong to some industry lobby should go away. i also think it's wrong that this house has become a place where fear has been traded in the last few months. we're looking for a practical solution.
mr president, i too welcome the fact that the european parliament has joined the united states and russia in banning the import of seal products into the european union. i believe we are making it clear that the canadian government will have to change its enforcement methods regarding the humane treatment of seal hunters. i am convinced, however, that our proposal also allows traditional inhabitants, both in europe and outside the european union, to continue to fish for seals according to their traditional rules. i thank everyone, and in particular the czech presidency, for the compromise reached between parliament and the council on 24 april, which we were able to vote on today.
mr vice-president of the council of the european union, mr vice-president vondro, although you are the representative of the outgoing government, this does not relieve you of the responsibility you have not only towards the citizens of the czech republic, but also towards the entire european union. i therefore call on you to stop promoting the lisbon treaty in an undemocratic and mendacious way and to tell the citizens the real state of affairs. please tell me that the european union is functioning effectively even in the economic crisis, that it is taking the necessary measures, that the member states are able to help each other. and they don't need the lisbon treaty for all that. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and we must be able to play a more active role in the world. let's face it, the legal trumps are now in the hands of those who did not ratify the lisbon treaty, the irish and the other free-thinking people in the eu. say that the current treaties are unilaterally non-negotiable and that leaving the eu is only possible with the consent of all member states. that is, no one can be expelled from the union without his consent. finally, mr vondro, you should retract your false assertion that the treaty of lisbon was signed by 25 countries. if you're competent, you know that ratification is not complete in six countries, including germany and poland. please also bear in mind that the lisbon treaty was rejected not only by the irish people but also by, for example, the prominent german left-wing politician oskar lafontaine, the prominent christian-democratic politician, the former president of the federal constitutional court and the german president roman herzog, and the former member of this parliament, the son of the assassin of hitler, graf von stauffenberg. and last but not least, the president of your country, vaclav klaus, is rejecting it. the common denominator of these arguments is concern about the impact of a massive loss of sovereignty of the member states on the daily lives of the citizens of the member states of the european union. dear vice president vondra, 20 years ago, you personally helped bring down a regime that oppressed its neighbors, despised its citizens, and lied to its people. you deserve the respect. that's why i don't understand why you're now reducing yourself to the same practices. you are giving a powerful argument to all those who compare the european union to the socialist cvmp and brussels to moscow. i would like to point out that the importance of the czech presidency has not been diminished by the fall of the government, but by the appalling pressure on ireland to which the czech presidency is lending itself. and the lies of the top officials of the presidency about the lisbon treaty, which discredits the democratic processes in the european union. even if you resign, you still have responsibilities. please ensure that the last european council under the czech presidency is held in such a way that our country is not left with the smell of totalitarianism, coercion and lies, but with respect for democracy, freedom and, above all, true facts. you're just confirming that 20 years ago people didn't ring the keys in the squares for nothing.
madam president, the rise in unemployment is one of the two main problems brought about by the current economic crisis, alongside the collapse in the financial markets. i am convinced that if the european union is to manage this increase, it must avoid any protectionism. i also see the coordination of the various measures within the framework of the european union as key. measures are needed to motivate people who lose their jobs to try to find new ones. in this context, i welcome the proposal to make the globalisation adjustment fund available to people who have lost their jobs as a result of the current economic crisis. the question is whether we are going too far in adjusting the rules of the global fund. the newly proposed co-financing rate of 75% is, in my view, too high. the participation of the member states is necessary, and let us not forget the simplification of the management of the fund. ladies and gentlemen, we can certainly agree that maintaining employment and creating new jobs in the face of the impact of the financial and economic crisis is one of the key tasks of the european union. the forthcoming european union employment summit should clearly set out a common framework and concrete proposals in this context and should also put an end to the discussion on the modification of the globalisation fund.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, european countries are receiving billions in bailouts for their financial institutions and industries. the european union as a whole is also looking to invest in the european economy. the proposal under discussion to support economic recovery through community financial assistance for energy projects is part of the european economic recovery plan, which provides for the allocation of a total of eur 30 billion. this public investment plan of eur 5 billion envisages directing mainly to energy infrastructure, high-speed internet connections, and agricultural restructuring. it's worth noting that european diplomats have been wrangling over the exact shape of the package for the past few weeks. the czech presidency and the commission have made a responsible effort through this package to respond to the gas crisis and to address some of the key issues in this regard, particularly in the central and eastern european region. yes, it's true that some things are still unresolved. some countries that are slower to draw on eu funds may pay for not having all the projects ready by next year. there are also doubts about the financing of this package. but these facts do not, in my view, justify our refusal to accept a compromise that has been negotiated with great difficulty. because by rejecting it, we could ultimately cause not only no money for energy-efficient projects, but no money to ensure a safe supply of gas to our homes. and that's what the voters would count on for the next gas crisis.
mr president, i am convinced that the measures we are discussing here must also be preventive in nature, because the situation is really serious. the volume of financial derivatives in the world market is five times the world gross domestic product, that is a bubble that will burst, and the risk is that, particularly in the united states, gross domestic product will fall very dramatically. the whole world would suffer, including our european countries. and there's also the risk of hyperinflation, because in the united states, there seems to be a prevailing view that you can fix all the problems by pouring more and more money into the system, despite the fact that the system is seriously flawed. i therefore think that this precautionary measure is very important and that certain problematic instruments in the financial market should simply be banned, such as shadow banking.
the rapporteur of the committee on regional development. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to bring the territorial dimension to the debate on the lisbon treaty on behalf of the committee on regional development. it is a fact that municipalities, cities and regions increasingly have to face the impact of european law and policies. a study by utrecht university in this context has shown that the community institutions adopt more than a hundred regulations with a direct impact on local authorities each year. seventy percent of the legislation and measures we produce have to be actually implemented in the regions, cities and towns. the controversial treaty of lisbon can therefore be viewed positively from the point of view of local authorities. the treaty of lisbon contains a protocol on subsidiarity, that is to say, a protocol according to which the adoption of a higher standard, in this case a european standard, is justified only if the greater efficiency and necessity of such a measure can be demonstrated. the treaty calls for more effective consultation with local and regional authorities and their associations. the new legislation would also enshrine an obligation on the european commission to minimise the financial and administrative burden of any new legislation. these measures could ensure that brussels is more able to hear and address the real problems of the mayors. i would also like to emphasise at this point that this is certainly not the last amendment to primary law that we are discussing. we should therefore already be carefully considering what changes need to be made to make the legal bases on which the european union is founded understandable, solid and for the benefit of all citizens.ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to assess the positives and negatives of the lisbon treaty at this point. you all know that the czech republic's view is critical, albeit realistic. this was also shown by the debate in the senate of the parliament of the czech republic today, where the treaty was approved this afternoon.
ladies and gentlemen, in this meeting, we're doing what in my country is called a no-guest account. we will be voting on what the relationship between the institutions of the european union, between the member states and their parliaments will look like if the lisbon treaty were to apply. i would remind you again that the treaty of lisbon is far from being ratified. members of this parliament should be aware of this and not withhold this information from the public. it must be clear to every democrat that even the most aggressive attacks on politicians who did not sign the lisbon treaty will not change this fact. in conclusion, i would like to point out to mr cohn-bendit that his outrageous statements about the czech president václav klaus's intention to bribe the senators of my country's parliament are an insult not only to the head of state but also to the citizens of the czech republic. such an accusation is in direct contradiction to the principles of friendly international relations and simple human decency. i therefore ask congressman cohn-bendit to prove his words about corruption or to publicly apologize to president klaus.
ladies and gentlemen, as a member of parliament from the czech republic, i am particularly pleased that today, as we are debating the implications of the treaty of lisbon, the czech senate has overwhelmingly approved the treaty of lisbon by a vote of 54 to 20. he expressed the will of the czechs to have the lisbon treaty. after all, this will has been expressed before by the lower house of parliament, the chamber of deputies. yet, immediately, a man, the president of the republic, was found who questioned this will of the people, this clear expression of the chamber of deputies and the senate. václav klaus, president of the czech republic, said: 'i must express my disappointment that some senators, after unprecedented political and media pressure, both domestic and foreign, have renounced their publicly held views, and thus their political and civic integrity, and have agreed to ratify the treaty of lisbon. they have thus turned their backs on the long-term interests of the czech republic, putting the short-term interests of the current political representations and their own above them. it's very sad evidence of another failure of a significant part of our political elites. now i will wait to see if a group of senators, as some of them have advised, will ask the constitutional court to review the lisbon treaty in relation to our constitution. if that happens, i will not consider my decision to ratify or not ratify the treaty of lisbon until the constitutional court has issued its finding. we are here to discuss the impact of the lisbon treaty on the development of the institutional balance of the european union. but i think that we should be here, and so should the czech deputies and senators, to discuss the institutional balance in the czech republic. the czech republic is a parliamentary democracy. yet the czech republic has a president who does not respect the will of the chamber of deputies, does not respect the will of the senate and behaves like an absolutist monarch or dictator from the country he so criticizes, which he so remembers, i.e. the former soviet union. so much for our eurosceptics about what democracy looks like in europe. what democracy looks like in this country. the way the president you admire so much behaves.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i thank mrs hieronymi for her excellent work and wish her many more successful years. the development of the international audiovisual space deserves our attention because it is an interesting area of activity and a great area for cooperation within the european union and with other countries of the world. further deepening of this cooperation, including a budget of eur 15 million for the media project for the years 2011-2013 will broaden the offer to consumers and bring more culturally diverse products to the european and international market. this will also help people from different cultural traditions to understand each other. the continuing training courses for audiovisual professionals, various promotional activities in the field of cinema and the possibility of increasing the circulation of these works are also very valuable elements of these european union projects. at the same time, it is clear that the audiovisual sector is the domain of the younger generation in particular, which uses television and these means, operating via internet protocols and multichannel digital television, as one of the main sources of information, alongside other internet technologies. therefore, support for these systems through a european union project can help to improve the quality of the offer to these consumers. but i would like to emphasize one more thing in this context, which i consider to be crucial. all online media represent a free alternative to the traditional media. unfortunately, even in democratic societies, these companies often fail because of commercial interests or because their management belongs to a certain political environment and indirectly forces their employees to self-censor. as a result, much information reaches the recipient in a distorted or selective form. on the other hand, the enormous development of the internet and the dissemination of cinema and information through it offer a truly free media environment with a pluralism, free of monopolies and cartels. all projects that strengthen this alternative to the mainstream media world should therefore be supported, and i am pleased that the czech presidency has contributed to the successful completion of the media mundus project.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, air travel is affected by a variety of emergencies, including sars and the mexican flu. and there was also a decrease in passengers. i would like to point out one of the factors that may be contributing to the decline in passengers, and that is the quality and capacity of services at airports, and in particular security screening. i must say that they are not only undignified - like wearing shoes and walking barefoot through checkpoints - but hygienically utterly unsuitable and health-threatening. i wouldn't be surprised if the number of passengers decreased due to the fear of infection, which is currently being contributed by the media. i would therefore like the european union to have a better control over the hygiene of security checks at airports, thereby improving the comfort, safety and comfort of passengers. as this is my last appearance before this assembly, i thank you all for your cooperation and wish you all the best in your next life.
i would say that the present situation is most characterized by the contradiction between the increasingly wide range of technical possibilities and the security measures that make life difficult not only for passengers but also for airport staff. i think it is in our interest, especially in the economic crisis that is currently affecting the whole world - and there will probably be another wave of this crisis in the autumn, another blow of financial uncertainty - to do everything possible to help this sector overcome its crisis and expand. i believe that those who have certain opportunities and do not take advantage of them are destined to have their paths downward. i would like the european union to avoid these options and to be at the forefront of progress in the transport sector.
rapporteur. − mr president, the eu and its member states have committed themselves to pursuing gender equality and women’s empowerment as one of the key priorities of the international agenda. yet, closer inspection reveals that the practical implementation of gender mainstreaming in the eu’s external policies is still weak. for instance, only eight of the 27 member states have adopted national action plans on the implementation of un security council resolution 1325. furthermore, women are still seriously underrepresented in high-level posts in the commission and the council. in fact, there is not a single female eu special representative at the moment. for this reason, the report stresses that the eu needs to fully implement its commitments in this field. for instance, the commission should speed up its work on an eu action plan on gender equality. i am convinced that this is key to strengthening the gender dimension in eu foreign policy. let me conclude by saying that women’s rights are part of the broader concept of human and civic rights. without addressing gender equality and promoting women’s rights in the eu’s foreign policy, that policy cannot be effective. (applause)
for the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in january this year i warned this honourable assembly that the czech presidency would not be easy, that it would probably be marked by great instability. the reason for my concern was precisely the instability within the czech government coalition, the disagreements between the government and the opposition and the contradictions between the government and the president. to recall briefly, let us recall only the speech of the czech president václav klaus to this honourable assembly. my fears of instability have unfortunately been realised, the presidency has been marked by instability, and not just by the collapse of the government. yet, in those six months, some things were accomplished, others less so. on the plus side, i would mention the energy policy already mentioned. i think the czech republic has done very well in dealing with the gas crisis in january this year, and after all the signing of the nabucco agreement, which president barroso mentioned here, is also the result of the czech presidency's work. where, unfortunately, the expectations of europe and the european parliament were not met, was in the solution of the economic crisis. let's remember the speech of former prime minister topolánek, who sent us president obama and economic policy to hell. however, i would like to thank in particular prime minister fischer for saving the czech presidency. the june summit is proof of that, because we have managed to put the whole agenda of this summit into action. and i would also like to thank the hundreds of czech officials not only in brussels, but in all czech ministries. these officials have done a very good and professional job in my opinion and cannot be held responsible for the way the czech political scene has been preserved.
mr president of the commission, mr prime minister, it is a great honour for me to be the first speaker in history from the new european conservatives and reformists group and also as a czech mep to address the czech presidency. but of course i will speak as a member of the european parliament, not from a narrowly national point of view, and i will also speak as the representative of my group, taking account of its political priorities. i had the opportunity to speak at the plenary in january when czech prime minister topolánek presented the priorities of the czech presidency, and i am speaking again today when prime minister fischer reported on what the czech republic has achieved. and i'm not just saying that. i want to emphasise the fact that the czech government has managed to maintain both the political and organisational continuity of the presidency, despite the fall of the government, which was caused by purely internal political reasons. and i would also like to commend the tone of the prime minister's speech, because it was exactly like the czech presidency, objective and result-oriented. i feel that some of these critical assessments, based on the subjective feelings of some european officials or media, did not contribute to the much-vaunted european cohesion and were rather part of private political campaigns conducted for a domestic audience. as regards the three priorities of the czech presidency: in the economic field, let me emphasise once again that the czech republic has managed to avert a looming wave of national protectionist measures which would have seriously damaged the fundamental values of european integration, and in particular the principles of the single internal market. as regards energy, the issue of security and sustainability of supply of energy raw materials has proved to be a prudent topic. in the first days of the czech presidency, the immediate crisis in gas supply was successfully tackled, but with the understanding that a real shift in this issue requires immediate follow-up with long-term strategic measures, including diversification of resources and liberalisation in the internal energy market. and so, from a symbolic point of view of the further direction of the european union's external relations, let me highlight the summits with these important global players in the world, namely the eu-us summit, which reaffirmed the crucial importance of the transatlantic relationship, but also the eu-russia and eu-china summits, and also let me underline the importance of the initiative and implementation of the eastern partnership initiative. in conclusion, i think the czech presidency can be summed up as proof that even a medium-sized country and a so-called new member state can accomplish this task with honour and quality.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to say that the czech presidency was indeed saved by mr fischer's government and by mr fischer himself. i would stress that it came at a time when we are experiencing 20 years of political change, which is characterized in the media as gaining freedom, but it is also 20 years of unfulfilled promises, because the level of competence of public administration in our country has declined significantly, and i would like to say that in this respect mr fischer's government was a pleasant surprise. he's the prime minister and he's a man who refuses to lie, and i first registered his name when mr. fischer stood up against the falsification of statistics in our country. he is a man who does not waste the noble phrases we have heard here during the various presidencies, and who acts with deliberation. i think it's very good that such a man has finally become the head of the czech presidency. and as we now have 500 years since the birth of calvin, who was born in france on july 10, 1509, i would like to say that really will save us in this difficult situation of the double crisis only ... (speaker was interrupted)
i am proud, ladies and gentlemen, honourable presidents of the council and the commission, that the czech presidency has gone down in eu history as a model of a welcoming, professional, non-partisan and well-prepared administration. despite the indiscriminate criticism of the european media and the czech opposition, the czechs have successfully negotiated consensus on dozens of legislative standards. the czechs did it in half the time before the parliament's term ended. these include, for example, roaming or energy packages and crisis measures. it was the czechs who finally managed to crack the nut, such as the transfer of services with high human labor costs to a lower vat rate, which is a pro-growth and anti-crisis measure. the czechs also managed not only to help restore gas and oil supplies from russia to europe, but also to negotiate and prepare for signing the nabucco southern pipeline agreement with the president of the commission. unfortunately, the czech republic also became a model of political instability in eu history, when the social democrat paroubek put his own goals ahead of the eu's interests and, with a few defectors, staged the execution of the czech government during the middle of its successful presidency. i would like to thank the teams of prime ministers topolánek and fischer and the czech mission in brussels for their commitment to the interests of both the union and the czech republic. these teams have shown that these interests are not mutually exclusive even in times of crisis. and they convinced not only the french president that protectionism is not a good word. and for that, i congratulate you and all of us. i am now calling on the swedish presidency to immediately begin negotiations on the abolition of visas for czech citizens. and i believe it will be successful, too. solidarity is the european union's greatest strength.
madam president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, madam member of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to review the past presidency. the presidency had two faces. we will not forget any of them, even though some of them we may want to forget. many here complain that the czech presidency has been too inactive in tackling the financial crisis. others recall president klaus' controversial speech to parliament. others here complain about the tactless labeling of barack obama's crisis program as a road to hell. however, the czech presidency was also associated with significant shifts. let us remember the green package and let us remember the progress made in adopting the lisbon treaty. the czech presidency had two faces and symbolically had two prime ministers. today, you're looking at the most successful of them all. mr prime minister, thank you, thank your government for the effort you have made, thank the staff of the european and czech institutions for the work they have done. ladies and gentlemen, please give a round of applause for the prime minister of the czech republic.
for the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, commissioner, in my speech here in the european parliament, as a member of the ecr group, i would like to make a very brief comment on the current situation in the automobile industry, particularly in terms of the future competitiveness of european manufacturers. i would also like to thank the commissioner for her approach in such a very complex case as we are discussing here today, which is creating an extremely complex environment for dealing with such economic situations in the future. the global economic crisis has affected many sectors of the economy. one of the sectors most affected is the automotive industry. perhaps this is because the automotive industry is a convergence of many different sectors with a huge demand for quality and an incredible pressure of competition with a pressure for technical progress and innovation. those who couldn't keep up with the tremendous pace of modern technology got themselves into a lot of trouble, and we're seeing that today. this is the case, for example, with american automobiles. i dare say that the crisis has shown who failed to anticipate the development of cars, but also who, in times of plenty, invested sensibly in the modernization of new competitive models. i am one of those who are fundamentally opposed to purposeful government intervention that only addresses the immediate financial situation of individual domestic producers. i understand the concern of politicians about increasing local unemployment, but i believe it is very unfortunate to go in with financial injections only to one sector. it just postpones painful decisions and often makes the position of those who are working worse. the global crisis can also be a great stimulus for the launch of new technologies, the use of new fuels such as compressed natural gas, hydrogen or, for example, electricity. so if the incentive support for european producers should come from europe, it should be in the direction of supporting research, simplifying innovation processes, which, let us admit, are really very long in europe. i am glad that the eu member states have so far avoided protectionist tendencies. financial protectionism alone would only preserve uncompetitive projects for the future. just as the catastrophic flooding of the nile in ancient egypt brought fertility, the global crisis should be the impetus for the development of new european cars that are more environmentally friendly and highly competitive on the world market. i am very pleased that the commissioner is taking this matter so seriously, because it is a very serious matter for the future for all of us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 september. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the commission statement on the free trade agreement with south korea: impact on european industry.
mr president, commissioner, i too do not like the strange new features in the treaty, such as the reimbursement of customs duties on imported components for export to the union or the reduction of the 60% limit for determining the country of origin. this is to favour korean imports at the expense of european industrial competitiveness and unemployment. already today, the lion's share of this is imported from asia, where the cost of labor is unrivalled. this is due to low or no social and environmental standards. and so, increasing them should be the topic of trade negotiations, not the prosperity of asian industry at the expense of europe. the commission has owed this to the european citizens for a long time. the commission is therefore asking whether it is aware of the negative impact of the treaty on european competitiveness and employment in the automotive and textile industries. second, is she aware that the contract contains a precedent that could affect other trade agreements? thirdly, is the commission going to ignore the fundamental reservations of the unions representing european engineering? fourthly, how is it that the korean media is already celebrating the victory of their car industry, and the commission's college has not even discussed the contract? or is the commission prepared to revise the proposal and negotiate a balanced contract? is the commission also prepared to press korea to accept international commitments on social and environmental standards before it receives the full benefits of free trade with the european union? thank you for your answer, and i trust common sense will prevail.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the effects of the global financial and economic crisis on developing countries and on development cooperation, by eva joly on behalf of the committee on development (o-0088/2009 – b7-0209/2009).
commissioner, i also want to express my disappointment that the g20's promises to help the poorest countries in the economic crisis have not been taken seriously. the fact is that the financial assistance from the international monetary fund has been meager so far. i also call for reform of the decision-making system so that the poorest countries can have a greater say in decision-making, especially in the bretton woods system. at the same time, commissioner, i would like to ask you whether the acp countries are able to ensure that health care and education, in particular, are at least at the same level as before the crisis? and i ask this particularly because there has been a drastic reduction in financial aid from a number of countries, including european ones. and otherwise, commissioner, i wish you success in your new job.
let me just mention that the decision to vote during the first october part-session was taken by the conference of presidents because, during that part-session, there will also be a debate on the g20 meeting. that is my explanation to your question. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the first october part-session.
mr president, i am very pleased that you, a citizen of such high moral standing from silesia, are taking over the reins of hans-gert pöttering and that, like him, you are highlighting the potential of the european union's unity in terms of human rights and solidarity between peoples. this election season, burdened by the economic crisis, will be a great test of this solidarity. i'm not worried about it as far as voting here is concerned, but i do know that individual citizens and regional politicians are increasingly judging our voting by the slogan: tighter shirt than jacket. and so i would like to invite you, mr president, to pay unconventional, high-level attention to the reporting of our work here in the european parliament to improve the position of europeans in global contexts.
john stuart mill said that parliament should be the mirror of the life of nations. it's no small task, and i think it should be important for our next term. the more so because europe is too important a thing to be left to the so-called political elites to decide.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the first october part-session. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council statement on swift.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we agreed last term that the baltic sea region is suitable for a pilot project aimed at implementing an internal eu strategy for the macro-region. i think it is appropriate that this strategy, which aims at a more consistent application of community law and a more efficient use of european union funds, does not introduce new laws or institutions, nor does it rely on specific financial resources. i see the reserves in the involvement of local and regional authorities. in the practical implementation of the baltic sea strategy, adjustments to the responsibilities of individual administrative bodies within a multi-level governance system appear necessary to avoid overlapping activities of different bodies and organisations. in the future, when discussing the future of cohesion policy, it would be good to clarify at the same time how the sub-macroregional strategies and the mainstream of european union regional policy will coexist. it would also be good to clarify how the baltic sea strategy fits into the concept of the implementation of territorial cohesion policy.
i welcome any agreement between the european communities and the countries of the former soviet union, provided that such agreements are based on equality and mutual benefit. if the explanatory memorandum to the european parliament, presented today, states that the proposed agreement will contribute to consolidating and strengthening the union in tajikistan and in the central asian region in political, economic and commercial terms, then i would like to draw your attention to the following conclusions, which i am far from the only one to share. the agreement shall in no way be construed as a possible platform for a military presence of union forces in that area. the european union must be built as a peace project, free from the ambitions of the great powers and the military, without any conditions. the so-called fight against terrorism cannot be conducted in this area without cooperation with russia and other neighbouring states. finally, i would like to point out that the exploitation and use of raw materials must also be approached in a spirit of complete equality and mutual benefit.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the milk sector shows that the whole system of european regulation based on quotas is wrong and ineffective. what we need is not more regulation and manipulation of quotas, but the complete abolition of milk quotas. milk must be produced mainly by those who have low costs and make a profit. the way to overcome the milk crisis is to eliminate milk quotas as quickly as possible. i support the commissioner's efforts to remove quotas by 2015, but i would not be upset if it were earlier.
commissioner, you see as progress the rise in prices of finished products such as skimmed milk and butter, by 3 to 8%. i think it's a mockery of our farmers. the main problem is the price at which milk is bought from farmers. for example, in the czech republic, the purchase price is up to 25% below the production price, but the price of the finished product you then buy in the store already meets by far all the prices farmers have. so the main problem is that there's a big hole in there somewhere. and that needs to be addressed. there are fewer cattle in the czech republic today than there were after the napoleonic wars. it's already threatening the maintenance of the countryside. mr. bové is certainly right and colleague fajmon is deeply ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me explain my vote on the crisis in the milk and milk products sector, in which i abstained. the situation in the dairy sector is, sadly, extremely critical. although consumer prices have risen by 14% in recent years, milk buy-back prices have fallen by almost 40%. many european milk producers are now facing bankruptcy. for example, in the czech republic, according to the ceo of madeta, mr teplý, 15 czech dairies are in a state of economic clinical death. however, the situation needs to be addressed by systematic long-term management of the sector, not just by short-term support measures such as subsidies, intervention buying and support for private storage. they only distort the market and do not prevent price volatility. at the same time, a level playing field must be created for farmers from all member states, and not just in the milk sector.
i'm very sorry, mr. chairman, i just want to make it clear that i voted from a different seat by mistake, my seat is 107 and i voted from number 67, which is another member's card. otherwise, i'm all for it. i just accidentally sat in the seat of another member who has a card inserted and voted from his card, which is against our rules of procedure, and please note that i am in favour and that the vote of a colleague does not apply.
ladies and gentlemen, it is not my intention to interfere in the internal affairs of ireland and i recognise the right of the irish political representation to have this treaty voted on as many times as they see fit and of course i respect the result of this referendum, just as i respected the result of last year's referendum which went the other way. i do not know which result is more valuable or valid, and perhaps my irish colleagues could help me with advice, but all i can say is how it looks from the outside and how the whole atmosphere around the ratification of the treaty of lisbon looks from the outside, and i regret to say that the impression is appalling. i lived the first 26 years of my life under a regime that did not allow for free choice and where no free choice was possible and where only one outcome was possible. i am very much afraid that many in this room and elsewhere in the european union feel that the only possible and conceivable outcome in terms of ratifying the treaty of lisbon was and is 'no' and that no other outcome is acceptable to them and is not acceptable to them. and i wonder why there is so much fuss and political pressure about the lisbon treaty, when without it the european union would neither have disintegrated nor collapsed, but would have continued to function on the existing treaty basis. and i say to myself that what we are witnessing here is a perfect example of realpolitik, of power politics, where it is not a case of a more democratic europe or a better functioning or more transparent european union, but of a new redrawing of the balance of power in the european union. i say this without bitterness, i've been in politics long enough to know what realpolitik is, but at least we're not lying to ourselves. who benefits from the lisbon treaty? it's going to be the european commission, so it's no surprise that the european commission is a big supporter, it's going to be the european parliament, so it's no surprise that many in this room are supporters of this treaty, and it's going to be a few strong states of the european union and it's going to be federalists in all the factions, whether it's the european people's party or the party of european socialists or the party of european liberals. but what i fear most is that this approach, the end-of-means approach, will backfire on all of us, that we will see a backlash in the coming years, and that this push for the lisbon treaty will create a backlash in the form of increased support for genuinely anti-european, for extremist, xenophobic and anti-european forces, and that this victory will be a pyrrhic victory.
i am not here to evaluate the actions of the irish government or the austrian government or any other government, i have not done it, i am not doing it and i will not do it under any circumstances.
ladies and gentlemen, i can feel the satisfaction and sometimes the joy on the faces and expressions in this chamber of the result of the irish referendum. although the ratification process of the treaty of lisbon is not yet complete, i would like to point out that we will only be able to feel satisfaction and joy if the citizens of the european community, for example in the next elections to the european parliament, confirm that the treaty of lisbon has been primarily in their favour, has improved social conditions, has reduced the risk of armed conflict and has made a significant contribution to a modern democratic europe. i admit the result of the irish referendum was not a surprise to me. we have all seen the strong interest of the european structures, which has been borderline pressure on ireland, and has been supported by appropriate financial means. i was a federalist by my deepest convictions, and that was back in the days of the common state of czechs and slovaks. i am and remain a federalist in the best sense of the word. but it bothers me - and i'm not alone - that such an important document could not be decided by the citizens of the european union in all the countries in a referendum. i think it is a mistake to promote a document which gives the possibility of strengthening the role of financial institutions without regard for social europe. i regard the repeated referendum in ireland as a dangerous precedent for the whole of the european community. time will be our judge, and i think it will show that the result of the second irish referendum is a pyrrhic victory. i would like to ask that the constitutional order of the czech republic be respected and that no pressure be put on the czech authorities, and in particular on the president, in making decisions ... (speaker was interrupted)
ladies and gentlemen, let me first wish the irish people, the irish people, a successful referendum on the treaty of lisbon. a bright irish christmas is good news for ireland, good news for all of europe. the european union needs a new, strengthened treaty base after its historic enlargement. this is the only way that europe will be able to successfully face the challenges and pitfalls of the 21st century, in the face of the global economic crisis and in the face of all-round global competition. the czechs have also said their "no" to the lisbon treaty. the czech parliament, both chambers, supported the treaty of lisbon by a clear constitutional majority. the czech public approves of the lisbon treaty, as it did in 2003, when it voted by a clear majority to join the european union. the czechs are well aware that a nation of ten million people, like the whole of europe, has its freedom, independence, security, economic and social prosperity guaranteed only by the existence of a democratic, strong and effective european union. the czech republic is a parliamentary democracy. the powers of its president depend on the will of the parliament. the czech president is not an absolutist monarch or the highest representative in the political system of the former soviet union. i would therefore urge václav klaus to respect the will of the czech people and, after clarifying the situation in the czech constitutional court, to sign the treaty of lisbon without delay. i am convinced that delaying and obstructing is not worthy of the role and position of the czech president.
the next item is the council statement on the situation in guinea.
thank you very much, mrs malmström. you have had so much patience spending the whole afternoon and part of the evening here. one can see that not so long ago you were a member of this house and so you like this environment very much! the debate is closed.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to draw attention to the problem of the delay in inviting the autonomous trade union of train drivers of europe (ale) to the committee on social dialogue on the railway sector. since 2005, the body has brought together more than 100 000 members from 16 european member organisations of train drivers and is working to be recognised as a full-fledged social partner in the railway social dialogue area. despite lengthy negotiations with the european transport workers' federation, which is now the only representative of the interests of workers in this committee, a compromise has not yet been found which would allow the ale to defend the interests of its members directly. i consider this situation to be very unfortunate. the social dialogue, as approved by the european parliament, should, in my view, allow for pluralism. i am convinced that no organisation, even if it represents 80% of the employees in the european railway sector, has the right to a monopoly and i therefore call on all stakeholders, including the european commission, to unblock further negotiations.
that concludes the item. (the sitting was suspended at 20.40 and resumed at 21.00)
for the group gue/ngl i would like to thank my colleague brian simpson for his good introduction to the subject. recently, several airlines have gone bankrupt in quick succession. it's not just the low-cost ones, but it's these companies in particular. if it weren't for the hundreds of travelers in destinations from which it's not easy to return home, nothing of substance would be happening. from time to time, individual sectors of industry have problems, and solutions are usually found in the end. in this case, there were thousands of people, often with young children, without adequate financial resources. so we need to send a clear signal that we know the solution. it's about capital adequacy and reinsurance. i believe that the commission and the member states of the european union are capable of resolving the passenger problem quickly. the problems of airlines will have to be dealt with in a different way. the crisis in the sector requires appropriate instruments and i believe they will be used.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the skyeurope crash has highlighted the general problem of poor consumer protection for airline passengers. it's not a virtual problem, i had the opportunity to meet with several clients affected by the collapse of this airline in person. they happened to be guests from our french partner city, chateau d'ain, who had come to the town of kroměříž, in the eastern czech republic, where i was working, for a meeting. their return journey was a truly frustrating experience, with a forced one-day layover at prague airport. i mention this experience to emphasise that skyeurope was not a standard low-cost airline. it provided its passengers with services similar to those of a conventional airline and flew to major airports. their services were therefore used by a wide range of customers. for clients who are not primarily concerned with the travel time but with the price of the ticket, skyeurope in the czech republic was the preferred choice. skyeurope was also one of the most important clients of the largest czech airport prague-ruzyně. however, the skyeurope crash did not only affect people at airports, but also 280 000 other customers who had bought tickets. according to the information available, the tickets were sold just before the bankruptcy was declared. people who didn't buy their tickets with a credit card have virtually no chance of getting a refund. airlines are not required by law to take out bankruptcy insurance, so some do not take out such insurance. the passenger has to file his claim only in bankruptcy proceedings. it's time to do something about it. i would like to thank the committee on transport for taking up this initiative and the commission for looking into this problem. i believe he will propose a solution that will strengthen the confidence of the customers in the air transport sector, which has been so dramatically affected by the economic crisis in the world.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this year's major airline crashes have forced us to rethink whether the single market in air transport is in order. although several major carriers have gone bankrupt and the situation in this sector is likely to continue to deteriorate due to the increase in fuel prices and the slowdown in economic growth, there is certainly no reason to panic in my view. before we jump into binding regulation, we should remember that the european union's liberalisation measures have led to a huge growth in low-cost airlines and increased competition between all airlines in the european union. the formerly highly regulated high-cost airline industry has thus become a dynamic sector, with affordable prices in the european union, which are increasingly being used by passengers who could not previously afford them. let us therefore think carefully about how to strengthen consumer protection, in this case airline customers, without endangering the functioning of the air carrier market. the proposal to introduce compulsory airline insolvency insurance has been proposed by the european parliament once in the recent past. it is therefore appropriate to consider how to implement this proposal.
madam president, the fact that the proposal for a council framework decision on the prevention and settlement of disputes concerning jurisdiction in criminal proceedings was submitted, inter alia, on the initiative of the czech republic, demonstrates the importance which the czech republic attaches to cooperation in the field of justice. however, given the sensitivity of the issue, care should be taken to ensure that such cooperation is carried out within the limits of the competences conferred on the european union by the treaty establishing the european union. that's what's happening in this case. the weak point is, on the contrary, a rather pronounced generality, for example in the form of the lack of a deadline for replying to the requested authority or the lack of criteria for determining the most appropriate judicial authority for the conduct of criminal proceedings. another beauty flaw is the weak involvement of eurojust, which should be the centre of attention. as an institution for european cooperation in judicial matters, it has much greater potential than that exploited in the draft framework decision, which does not even provide for an obligation to inform eurojust when dealing with the prosecution of cross-border crime in one member state.
ladies and gentlemen, the modernisation of the schengen information system is becoming a nightmare. with further enlargement of the union, the risk of terrorism and organised crime is increasing and therefore ensuring a higher level of security must be a priority. it's a shame that the switch to the new database is being delayed again. the system contains data on missing, stolen goods, and court proceedings. the current system has been in operation since 1995 and was built for a maximum of 18 countries. i would like to thank the commission for the flexibility it has shown in allowing the schengen extension despite the delays in sis ii. however, only in exceptional circumstances could it accommodate nine new member states. the second version of the system is delayed until at least 2011. it is intended to enable better management, flexibility, security, to handle more data and to provide other new functions. it will allow for the accession of other countries, including the involvement of the united kingdom and ireland. frontex must also have all the necessary competences to effectively combat illegal immigration. however, i have reservations about the communitarianisation of the schengen evaluation working group, as i fear that this would relieve the member states of their responsibility for ensuring control. on the other hand, i would like to draw attention to the experience of czech citizens, i know cases where german and austrian police harassed czech drivers without any reason. i regret that president klaus is unnecessarily delaying the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, but it is clear that soon - that is, afterwards - the commission will have to submit legislation again, following the european parliament's codecision procedure. i therefore support the rejection of the texts as proposed by mr coelho and congratulate him on his good report.
for the ecr group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner, i will begin by reacting to the previous speech. i do not think that the european parliament or the european union is lacking in ambition in this area. a year ago we finished preparing the climate package, and this is certainly the most far-reaching legislation in the world and the most ambitious in the world. let's also admit that it has probably the greatest economic impact of any legislation that's been passed here in the last decade. when i read the european parliament's declaration prepared for copenhagen, i mention the things that are there that i like. it describes the need to strengthen the role of the european parliament, it describes the need to prepare for adaptation to climate change, we definitely have to agree with the article that talks about deforestation, and i would just like to emphasize that deforestation is not and has not been a problem of the developing world only, but it is also a problem of europe, so we should focus on that. but what is not there, and what the council representatives and the commission representative here have spoken about, is the need for a global agreement. without the global agreement, we're at a dead end. we're talking about helping the poorest countries, and that's certainly fine, but when you look at the numbers today, when you look at the production of greenhouse gases, it's clear to you that europe, even if it's more self-serving, if we really shut down all our resources, we're not going to change anything about climate change, we don't have a chance of mitigating that effect. we know that today we need to talk not just about china, which is repeatedly falling, but about other rapidly developing economies, such as mexico, brazil, south africa and, most importantly, india. i can't imagine india's next approach, and what i've heard so far, let's face it, is not very encouraging. i would like to emphasize from this point of view that if there is no global agreement, all our efforts will only be a burden on the european economy, a sort of masochistic liquidation of european competitiveness.
in writing. the eu is a world leader in the fight against climate change. this position undoubtedly implies an obligation to help developing countries. aid must be applied with a high degree of responsibility for its consequences. if developing countries are to be allocated €30 billion per year by 2020 for their efforts to mitigate climate change, then climate justice and solidarity must be the objective of this measure. the aim and the result must not be to create new sources of tension as a result of new distortions in socio-political developments. the links between the developing world and the developed world are complex. the release of funds shall take into account all potential impacts of development assistance, including political and population implications. the largest part of the resources should be directed to supporting education and the information society. even in the ep, not everyone is convinced that climate change is a real threat. without understanding the reality of climate change and its consequences in the target countries, our aid becomes a mere bribe for our well-being to the governments of those countries whose people do not have that well-being. if the eu's ambitious objectives are not adequately reflected by other major players, the us, china, india, and the countries of south and central america, the eu needs to focus on strengthening internal adaptation measures and mechanisms, in particular in the area of health and civil security of eu citizens.
in writing. let me explain my vote on the proposal for a council regulation repealing certain obsolete council acts in the field of the common agricultural policy. in the course of european integration, many legal acts have been adopted by the european parliament and the council. when we joined the eu, the acquis communautaire was about 80 000 pages long, half of which were agricultural. it is therefore commendable that the institutions of the european union agreed in the interinstitutional agreement that community law should be updated and streamlined. legislation which is not of lasting relevance should be removed from the acquis communautaire in order to improve the transparency and certainty of community legislation. the commission has recently declared 250 pieces of agricultural legislation obsolete. there are now 28 acts that are ineffective in practice but still formally exist, and 6 acts that are obsolete. although i supported this proposal, i am convinced that there is still room for further streamlining of european law and reducing the brussels bureaucracy and i therefore ask the commission to continue to simplify european law.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.00 on thursday, 22 october. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is question time (b7-0212/2009). the following questions are addressed to the commission. part one
as the questioners are not present, questions 22 and 23 lapse. part two
i would now like to ask mr posselt if he has an additional question.
question no 25 by nikolaos chountis (h-0320/09) subject: commission negligence in investigation of siemens scandal the biggest case of corruption to hit the european union in the last five years is the siemens scandal. it emerges from the judicial investigation, court judgments, the confessions of those involved and public statements by the company itself that political parties and individuals in positions of responsibility in various countries, including greece, were bribed so that the company would gain an advantage in obtaining contracts for projects and procurement on behalf of government and public enterprises, many of which were co-financed from community funds. since the siemens scandal came to light, the commissioner responsible for combating fraud, mr siim kallas, has stated, in response to parliamentary scrutiny of the case, that the investigation is not within the competence of the european union and that the member states have not requested the assistance of the anti-fraud office (olaf). in the light of that statement, will the commission say in what way the commission and olaf, which is competent to investigate cases of fraud against the community budget, have protected european citizens' money? in what way have the commission and olaf intervened in this important case to demand transparency? what are the commission's and olaf's conclusions in relation to this case?
question no 26 by gay mitchell (h-0336/09) subject: cigarette smuggling and revenue a european anti-fraud office press release in august told of the conviction of a major cigarette smuggler in the us. while this is to be welcomed, the fact remains that the illicit cigarette trade costs the eu as much as €9.5 billion in loss revenue each year and that this money goes to criminals and has been used to fund terrorist organisations such as the real ira. what is the commission's strategy to deal with the fact that 97% of illegal cigarettes are evading the legitimate tax net at the european taxpayer’s expense and subsequently to the detriment of european security?
as the questioner is not present, question no 27 lapses.
question no 29 by silvia-adriana ticau (h-0327/09) subject: measures to guarantee young people access to quality education, to encourage and assist them to continue their studies and to ease their entry onto the job market there are 96 million young people between the ages of 15 and 29 in the eu, which represents around 20% of the total population. 20% of young people under the age of 25 are exposed to the risk of poverty, according to eurostat statistics for 2007, while stable jobs are increasingly hard to find owing to the economic and financial crisis. approximately 15% of young europeans abandon their schooling. in february 2009, some 17.5% of europeans under the age of 25 did not have a job, with this being more than twice the overall unemployment rate for the eu, which stood at 7.9% for the same period. similarly, many young europeans are being forced to accept temporary jobs because they cannot find permanent ones. since the future of europe depends on the younger generation, could the commission state what measures it is contemplating to guarantee young people access to quality education, to encourage and assist them to continue their studies and to ease their entry onto the job market, thereby ensuring their fuller integration into society?
question no 30 by liam aylward (h-0332/09) subject: volunteerism in sport can the commission outline the initiatives that it intends to pursue to promote volunteerism in sport in europe to a greater extent?
question no 31 by brian crowley (h-0338/09) subject: white paper on sport in accordance with the policy objectives of the eu white paper on sport, what programmes is the european commission implementing to highlight the benefits of better dietary practices in europe?
question no 32 by jelko kacin (h-0343/09) subject: difficulties of the slovene theatre in trieste the eu urgently needs a commissioner for human rights. the rights of minorities are being flagrantly violated in the eu. here is an example from italy. one of the pillars of the national identity and culture of the slovene minority in italy is the slovene theatre (slovensko stalno gledališče) in trieste, which was established as long ago as 1945 by the municipal, provincial and regional authorities of italy. the theatre has always faced financial difficulties because the italian authorities do not provide regular funding. the theatre had to stop performing its programme in september because of financial difficulties. the italian state has an important internal and international obligation to provide for those italian citizens who are members of the slovene minority. the italian state is not respecting the rights of its own citizens, and by preventing the theatre from operating it is carrying out a policy of active assimilation of a minority. in slovenia this behaviour is viewed as a flagrant violation of italy’s obligations towards a minority, in this case the slovene minority. what can you as european commissioners do to preserve the slovene theatre in trieste, and with it the slovene language?
that concludes question time.
mr. chairman, madam secretary, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to comment on this last performance. it is clear that the next european council will be dominated by institutional issues and then by the process of adopting the treaty of lisbon. i believe that in debates on the future direction of the european union we should treat each other with the proper humility and, in the same way, respect without emotion the sovereign decision-making mechanisms of individual member states and their constitutional authorities. now let me get back to my topic. i personally consider the macro-regional strategies to be an equally important item in the council's deliberations. we have already agreed in the european parliament that the baltic sea region is suitable for a pilot project to implement an eu internal macro-regional strategy and i am therefore pleased that this decision will most likely be confirmed by the european council. at the same time, i believe that the time is now ripe to start thinking about how to replicate this pilot strategy. if we look at the map of the european union in this context, we see that the biggest differences, both economic, social and cultural, still persist on the borders between the former socialist bloc and the west european capitalist states. these differences are also apparent here in parliament. twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall, we are still talking about new and old member states. twenty years after the velvet revolution, we still apply exceptions to the free movement of persons when we use transitional periods for the free movement of workers. these are certainly barriers that need to be systematically dismantled... (speaker was interrupted)
before the european council, let me make a few remarks on the ratification of the treaty of lisbon in my country, the czech republic. the czechs, through their elected representatives in both chambers of parliament, have said their unequivocal 'yes' to the lisbon treaty. according to all the polls, they want president klaus to sign the lisbon treaty quickly. the czech people also want to be guaranteed the same human, civil and social rights in europe as other europeans. for this reason, they have also stated their unequivocal support for the charter of fundamental rights. president klaus is known for his longstanding opposition to the charter, especially its social aspect. now, under the pretext of the so-called sudeten german threat, they are trying to negotiate an opt-out for the czech republic in a time crunch. the european union should not play this game, this dishonest game. the czechs, for the most part, want the whole charter, including its social part. it is sad, regrettable and unworthy of the role of the czech president to involve sudeten germans in this game 65 years after the end of world war ii. the germans of bohemia and the sudetenland have enjoyed more than enough of the horrors and miseries of war and exile. i am convinced that the czechs and the sudeten germans have learned from this tragic experience, and i am convinced that the czechs, the germans and the sudeten germans want to live together, want to build together a new united europe in peace and cooperation.
mr president, the key issue is the treaty of lisbon. the jurisprudence of the czech constitutional court is consistent and i do not believe that next week the court will find it inconsistent with the czech constitution. i doubt the president will end the obstruction. but the czech republic is not a presidential system, so the government can bring a jurisdictional suit against such a president. after all, for years, václav klaus has refused to appoint a lawyer as a judge just because he lost a court case with him, and he does not respect the decision of the supreme administrative court. not just a lawyer, but half a billion european citizens are hostage to our president's whims. the damage is extensive. in times of crisis, the appointment of a new commission is held back, parliament lacks powers to deal with the budget, national parliaments cannot yet issue yellow and red cards, we do not use new powers to fight epidemics or energy crises, to fight terrorism and organised crime, or to adopt new principles in civil protection and humanitarian aid. the charter is being suspended because of the expired beneš decrees. this is ridiculous. not just for the timing, but because there's no legal reason to. article 345 of the treaty of lisbon expressly states that it does not deal with property relations in the member states. and the charter does not open up a new legal space other than the one that already exists for property disputes in the czech republic now. nor does regulation no 44 on the recognition of judgments set the property relations back 50 years. yet the czech media is full of doubts. what's going on in the czech republic? it is likely that the next presidential election in the czech republic will be direct and václav klaus is trying to create an image of a powerful ruler who can save the property of czechs from foreigners against the whole union. i appreciate that the union is not putting any pressure on the czech republic, and i ask for patience until we resolve this democratic deficit of our president at home, before the british elections. in conclusion, i would once again call on the council to stand with the czech republic against canada's unilateral introduction of a visa requirement for czech citizens and to decide on joint sanctions.
madam president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european council is undoubtedly an important institution and should therefore deal with the most important issues. it is primarily about providing jobs that are capable of providing people with a decent life. i'm surprised at the number of nonsensical speeches that show a lack of knowledge, and even foolishly mix in a strange stew of revanchist demands with extremely liberal practices. the european council should reject these voices forcefully, while at the same time giving a clear signal that the primary interest is indeed to re-launch industry and to address the plight of farmers. if social cuts, bank bailouts and the most affluent are introduced instead, no positive impulse can be expected, especially if the abstract criteria of financial stability are maintained. in conclusion, i would like to say to all those who have been desperate to prevent the ratification of the treaty of lisbon by referendum: wash your hands before your own doorstep, and if you cannot explain the provisions of this treaty to your own citizens, do not teach others.
i'm pleased to inform you that a delegation from the south african parliament has been meeting in the gallery for official guests. i therefore warmly welcome the south african delegation to the 14th interparliamentary negotiations between the european parliament and the parliament of the republic of south africa. the african delegation is led by ms joanmariae louise fubbs, chairperson of the south african national assembly committee on trade and industry, accompanied by the chairperson of the committee on international relations and five other south african parliamentary colleagues. as you know, europe and south africa share the same values in terms of democracy, human rights and multilateral cooperation. south africa is not only a regional power, but also a global emerging power and a valuable partner in helping us address the challenges posed by the global financial and economic crisis. we believe that we must deepen our dialogue and build even stronger relations and cooperation. our two regions should move forward together, not only in seeking a way out of the current crisis, but also in working to create a new global order that will bring lasting benefits to all of us. so once again, madam speaker and fellow members of the south african parliament, welcome.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by elmar brok on the institutional aspects of the creation of a european external action service (a7-0041/2009) and the statement by the council and the commission on the creation of a european external action service.
madam commissioner, of course i forgive you, because i fully agree with you. it is a very important topic.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to speak now to both problems, as well as to the following report on georgia. we're given too little time to consider too complex problems. i cannot help but note that the president of the czech republic, václav klaus, was not wrong in his assessment of the situation in moldova and the conflict on the georgian-russian border. that is the past, of course, and we are faced with new challenges today, even though we have only the president of the commission and no new commission. i would like to appreciate, at least as regards the report on the georgian-russian conflict, the attempt to assess the whole situation objectively. we have announced an ambitious eastern partnership programme and let me make the following suggestions to both countries, moldova and georgia. first, the eastern partnership project must not be seen as a policy tool against russia, but as a tool for finding a solution together with russia. secondly, the question of the territorial integrity of both moldova and georgia must be resolved in accordance with international law, not the so-called solanovo-kosovo variant. thirdly, both countries have shown an interest in closer cooperation with the european union, and this needs to be matched by financial and real political support, such as visa facilitation. fourth, both countries need substantial assistance in the area of advisory services, especially the functioning of public institutions such as the office of the president, the parliament, the prosecutor's office, etc. fifth, both countries urgently need help, especially in creating a legal framework for freedom of speech, freedom of the media, and thus building trust with their own citizens. to achieve all this, the european union must be ready and able to fulfil its integration role as the actor for a new europe, through political, financial and other support mechanisms. otherwise, the eastern partnership will be seen as a geopolitical chessboard of interests and will remain an empty concept. otherwise we risk disappointment and at the end of our term we will again hear about the need for new orange, carnation or other revolutions. we will pay for these, but they will not lead to a real solution to the situation and to an improvement in the conditions of the inhabitants.
for the ecr group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the ecr political group and the european parliament's delegation for cooperation with the parliament of georgia, which i chair, i welcome the report presented by the commission. the report is credible, and neither side has questioned it. we are closely monitoring the situation in georgia and we are also monitoring information on georgia's preparations for nato membership. we unequivocally support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia as an independent state. we cannot accept the notion that georgia or any other country should be in the exclusive sphere of interest of the russian federation or any other country. in the context of the military conflict that took place in georgia a year ago, we are following with great concern the situation in south ossetia in particular. we are concerned about the state of compliance with the ceasefire agreements, and particularly concerned about the situation of refugees who have been forced to leave their homes and cannot return. unfortunately, the european union's humanitarian aid is not currently reaching the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. both ethnic georgians and other residents suffer in these areas. and in these areas, to our great regret, the independent peace observers sent to georgia by the european union cannot work either. the report finds that both sides of the conflict have violated international law. it is not for us to judge, but the report shows that the actions of the russian federation go far beyond the general idea of necessary defense. we are deeply concerned by reports of ethnic cleansing and violence against the civilian population, which the report says took place both during and after the conflict. in the further work of the interparliamentary committee, we will support the immediate end of all violence, the immediate lifting of blockades that prevent the delivery of humanitarian aid to those who really need it, and the access of international peace observers, and the maximum mitigation of the impact of the conflict on the innocent civilian population. we will support all steps leading to the end of the conflict and the restoration of georgia's territorial integrity and sovereignty.
mr president, i would also like to express my disappointment that we were unable to vote today on the development aid budget on the condition that european money should not be used to pay for activities such as family planning, forced abortion or forced sterilization. i protest against the methods used in many asian countries to force women to have abortions, especially when the fetus is female. they say 35 million girls weren't born that way. we must not support those who are organizing this, let alone send them money from europe. today's black vote by the liberals, the communists and a section of the socialists has blocked such a fuse in the passage of our budget.
i fully support extending the scope of article 186 to the milk and milk products sector. this will allow for a flexible response to sudden changes in the global and european milk market, so as not to negatively affect producers or distort competition. however, i doubt the effectiveness of the quota buy-back funded by the budget of each member state to deal with the crisis in the milk sector. not all community countries have the same possibilities for financing this measure. i think it's going to disrupt the competitiveness of farmers in these states and of course, competition. as the representative of the czech republic, i therefore prefer in this respect the financing of the purchase of allowances from the community budget, which could be used by all states equally. that's why i abstained.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i cannot imagine that the eu representatives, following the resolution proposed by the european parliament, would have achieved anything in stockholm. if the russian delegation has similar recommendations, the summit is doomed. do we want the negotiations to help cooperation between the eu and russia? literally, yeah. the document often refers to russia as a key eu partner. but almost everything is conditioned by requirements and conditions, not proposals. for example, russia is held responsible for the success of the copenhagen climate conference. it was the kyoto protocol that saved the day when the united states refused to ratify it. and among some of the unrealistic attitudes towards russia is the challenge of media freedom. it's definitely not ideal. but we too, ladies and gentlemen, voted in the last plenary session that this was an internal matter for italy. and that's a member state of the union. so what do we want to do in russia? if russia is to be an important partner, then let's treat it accordingly.
twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall, we are more sensitive to some of the events that are happening in the world today. today, we can take a realistic view of events in russia. at that time, we felt that everything in the soviet union was an ideological pressure, but now we are talking about trade in absolute freedom of man. with winter approaching, there is a natural increase in nervousness about the supply of gas from russia through ukraine. analyses of the january gas supply crisis clearly show the divergence between the western and eastern parts of europe. they lead to a more cautious approach to preparing crisis scenarios. it is important to resolve contractual relations at the international level as best as possible; to raise awareness of similar situations. the high cost of technical measures also requires a deliberate decision on whether to finance them from public sources or on the basis of a european directive. the question is how much gas is actually needed to be stored and how to finance it. what is important is what is the real crisis and what is the performance of the gas trade, when should the top political representation enter the negotiations, and what should the market handle. we must guard against the temptation of excessive administrative interference.
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i have great respect for mr yanes, i have even followed his career, but i cannot agree with him when he used the words of václav havel today, who i am sure we all respect in this chamber. i was one of the millions of people who were on the street when vaclav havel spoke from that stage, and we stood - i was 18 years old at the time - down below and we wanted one thing, regardless of any political opinion, we wanted free elections. that was the motto of the time, and i think that's the motto that we're all going to agree with. when it comes to elections, elections are democracy. i think the situation in honduras is not easy, we certainly can't solve it from the european union's point of view, we have to look at it from a global point of view. i think the elections could be a starting point, and i think the european union should have its observers there, because elections will be held, and hopefully they will be held in a democratic way.
the next item is the report by chrysoula paliadeli, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the european ombudman’s activities in 2008 (2009/2088(ini)).
mr president, mr ombudsman, ladies and gentlemen, i have great respect for the work of the european ombudsman, but i must say that i see three major problems in the work of this office. the first problem is information. the general public in the european union does not know that the european ombudsman exists, let alone what he does and how to contact him. the facts are pretty clear. almost 90% of the complaints sent by my fellow citizens from the czech republic did not fall within the competence of the european ombudsman. this is also the case in other member states. the european parliament therefore proposes a wide-ranging information campaign. but i'm not sure it's the cure for the right disease. the second problem is cost. every public institution costs something. with each new institution comes an increasing amount of bureaucracy that citizens must overcome and navigate. it is therefore necessary to consider whether the invested taxpayers' funds correspond to the desired results. last year, my fellow citizens lodged 66 complaints with the european ombudsman, and almost 800 cases came from across the european union under the european ombudsman's remit. these problems were dealt with by 70 officials, costing the taxpayer 9 million euros. the only admissible case thus cost more than eur 10 000. that's more than enough, in my opinion. the third problem is subsidiarity. as a former mayor, i was somewhat concerned to read that one of the few cases the ombudsman deals with is the zoning plan for the small area of břeclavsk in connection with high-speed transport. i think this is completely unnecessary, because local problems should be solved in the municipalities first and foremost, not here in brussels or strasbourg. ladies and gentlemen, if i have established this institution, it is necessary to ensure its reasonable performance, to do so at the lowest possible cost and, in particular, not to abuse and artificially expand its powers and bureaucracy. i wish the ombudsman every success in this regard.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks to mr lamassoure for the report he has prepared. i think that the document is necessary and that it was prepared at the appropriate speed. we know that the treaty of lisbon will actually come into force at the beginning of this year, and we certainly need this report. i would also like to comment on some of the speeches which have been made concerning the validity of the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty is in force at the moment, there's no point in discussing it further. i would like to make one further comment on a comment made by mr lázsló surján. i would like to promise mr surján on behalf of the czech republic that the czech social democrats will do everything to ensure that the exemption requested by president klaus is withdrawn for the czech republic, because we consider it shameful.
the reporter. − the report was discussed in committee and a simplified procedure was proposed, given the urgency of the matter. my topic is macrofinancial assistance to serbia, which i consider to be the central economy of the balkans, and i believe that there are many reasons why we should give substantial assistance to this country, which is a candidate for membership of the european union, at a difficult time characterised by great financial instability. there's a budget deficit, there's inflationary pressures, and of course, this country also faces a lot of consequences from the past, for example, it has a big problem with the environmental damage that was caused by the airstrikes of the north atlantic alliance. there's also a humanitarian problem, because there are 750,000 refugees in the country who came from other parts of the former yugoslavia, and of course the current financial crisis has revealed all the structural flaws of the serbian economy. among other things, the war in 1999 and the air strikes reduced the share of final production in serbia's total product, and this also worsened the balance of foreign trade. this was compounded by last year's poor harvest, which further weakened the revenue side of serbia's budget. the situation is very tense at the moment. i believe it is necessary to speed up this aid so that it can be operational as early as next year, which is why i have proposed a simplified procedure through the chairman of our committee. i would like to stress that this is also a matter of interest to serbia's neighbours, i.e. some countries which are not yet members of the european union, such as bosnia and herzegovina and croatia, but which are keen to join. but there are also countries that are already members of the european union that could be threatened by instability in serbia, namely hungary, romania and bulgaria. in the interests of the stability of this part of the european union and in the interests of serbia's internal stability, with particular emphasis on strengthening the country's territorial integrity, i propose that this macrofinancial assistance be implemented really quickly.
the reporter. - a great writer said that the balkans have always shouldered more historical responsibilities than they were able to bear. the same could be said of the caucasian nations, who also carried more history on their shoulders than they could bear. so i think the european union could take a little bit of this historical burden off their shoulders. it would be to their advantage and to ours, because without the balkans the european union is not complete, and i think that if the serbs have recently joked about having only god and the greeks as friends, we could show them that they have friends in the european parliament too.
for the ecr group. mr president of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i agree with most of the previous speakers that the copenhagen summit is probably the most important summit of the year for the european union and for the world. i would like to thank the commissioner for being one of the politicians who has highlighted the importance of the european parliament for the forthcoming summit and for climate policy and climate change as such. i also want to thank you for emphasizing the importance of finance. you know, we in the czech republic often say, and in czech it sounds a bit ironic, that money always comes first, and in this case it's worth twice as much. i would like to stress that if the european union as a body is not able to come up with a strong and clear mandate, is not able to come up with a clear financial agreement, it weakens our position in the world very strongly. several previous speakers have stressed that as the european union we have a leading role in this area and that this leadership should remain. i would be very happy if there was someone at the summit who was more ambitious, who was further along than we are, who had better legislation and who was willing to put more money into it. i wouldn't mind at all if we lost that first position, because i think it's time that burden sharing really got taken to a global scale. i am one of those who believe that without a global agreement, all our efforts will be lost. the constant emphasis on countries like the united states, india or china is not worth repeating here. i'm afraid that president obama is not able to deliver on all of his campaign promises, and that's wrong. and i'd like to quickly mention one of the things that i talk about a lot, and that is deforestation, water management in a world that we still kind of underestimate. in all our statements, we hear the message, yes, let's agree with countries like brazil, india and others to stop cutting down the rainforests. but i say, it's not enough to make a deal, it's not enough to proclaim. we have found in the past that control over these activities is often not held or exercised by the governments concerned, and that is why i say: it is not enough to agree, we must devise control mechanisms, we must have an overview of the real policy, and i agree that agreement should not be at any cost.
following the successful vote, as one of the shadow rapporteurs of the telecoms package, i am pleased that this major revision of the internal market rules, particularly in the field of electronic communications, will bring about another fair process for disconnecting from the internet. i'm glad to see the council has finally agreed to our proposals. thanks to our safeguards, the disconnection will affect real criminals like terrorists and child pornographers, not ordinary users.
ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we need advanced information systems for civil administration, linking customs and police authorities in the member states. we owe it to the citizens of the union to fight more effectively against the importation of counterfeit and dangerous goods from third countries into our market. unlike most members, i believe that the commission's proposal will lead to greater protection of personal data and at the same time to a more effective fight against organised crime. that is why i did not vote for the committee's 90 amendments, or for the report as a whole. however, i would urge the european commission to agree on a rapid alert system similar to rapex china with other countries such as india, vietnam, russia and turkey, so that dangerous or counterfeit products are stopped before they enter european territory. i would like to point out that since 2006 it has been possible to conclude an international agreement with third countries on cooperation between consumer protection authorities and i am very disappointed that the european commission has not yet made use of this possibility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the joint proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on pesticide statistics, which was approved by the conciliation committee, because i believe it has important positive aspects. it consolidates and, in particular, simplifies legislation on pesticide statistics. it harmonises statistical surveys and thus allows for better comparability of data, offers the opportunity to make better and wider use of the administrative resources of data already collected, and thus reduces costs and administrative burden for farmers and other operators in the agricultural sector. the proposal also allows for better protection of confidential data. moreover, in the end, this standard will lead to better awareness of pesticides and their effects on public health, which i personally consider to be crucial.
by adopting today's resolution on the copenhagen summit on climate change, parliament has clearly indicated that we attach particular importance to this issue. this is also reflected in the authentic approach, in which parliament insists on the principle of shared but differentiated responsibility. in line with this, the industrialised countries are to take the lead, while developing countries and economies such as china, india, brazil will be given appropriate support through technology and capacity building. on the other hand, i must say that the assumption that the copenhagen agreement could provide the impetus for a green new deal initiative seems to me to be overly optimistic and ideologically one-sided. in a pious effort to reduce co2 emissions, you can't put blinders on and walk over the corpses of industrial enterprises. i would not consider such a fanciful approach to be a sustainable path for the whole of europe.
in writing. i voted in favour of mr beleta's report on the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency, which is in line with the council's common position. given that 25% of total co2 emissions are attributable to road transport and that 30% of total fuel consumption of vehicles is derived from their tyres, the introduction of mandatory tyre labelling is a key tool in the fight for a healthier environment. the ep's decision today will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by up to four million tonnes a year. this is the equivalent of about 1 million cars disappearing from european roads every year. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the met/it guidelines. this should not lead to an increase in their prices, which will undoubtedly be appreciated by consumers, especially those who make their choices based on the price of the product. i believe that the results of the market surveys will be confirmed, which say that consumers are interested in buying more environmentally friendly tyres. the benefit of the approved regulation for manufacturers is that the existence of uniform standards for the communication of information on tyre performance will improve the possibilities of competition for customers which will not be based only on the price of the products.
for the group gue/ngl. i am pleased that we have managed to produce a joint resolution which is a very good compromise and could contribute to reducing the number of deaths and diseases caused by smoking. i welcome the wording of article 15 which should ensure that tobacco control efforts are protected primarily against the commercial interests of the tobacco industry. i consider the reporting mechanism provided for in article 22 to be good. i regret that we have not succeeded in getting the reference to standardisation of packaging into the joint resolution. studies have shown that standardised packaging would significantly reduce consumption and demand, especially among young people. i regret that due to time constraints the proper consultation process was not followed and i hope that the council will support the proposals. as quaestors, i would like to point out that at today's meeting we took steps to ensure that the protection of non-smokers in the european parliament is at the appropriate level.
in writing. let me explain the vote on the report by mr marc scurria on the proposal for a council decision on the european year of volunteering. i personally consider unpaid volunteer work to be an important part of our society. in my home country, the czech republic, volunteer firefighters are the largest and longest-running volunteer organization. their tradition began in ancient times, when the need to prevent a catastrophic natural disaster, in this case a fire, always brought together several dozen volunteers in order to unselfishly save the property of their neighbors, neighbors, roommates. the most widespread and oldest organizations associated with volunteering include the czech red cross, the czech tourists club, the sokol physical education unit, the youth organization junák and the volunteer mountain service. all these people who help in schools, hospitals, sports clubs, in the mountains, or who go abroad to help deserve recognition. the dedication of 2011 to this theme is certainly beneficial in this respect. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. in general, any agreement that improves cooperation with the eu's neighbours is welcome. if we compare the position of the countries neighbouring the eu, then we see next to russia ukraine as the most important partner. exchange of information in the field of science and technology, joint implementation of programmes, exchange of personnel and exchange of knowledge in the field of management of scientific and research institutions. these are goals that can only be encouraged. i have a reservation about the way the agreement is being evaluated. if the authors cite as performance indicators 'the number of missions and meetings' and even 'the number of different areas of cooperation activities', then i have serious doubts about the knowledge of the subject matter of the author of the report. section 7 'anti-fraud measures' is literally desperate and the statement 8.2.2 makes me go insane. in the age of electronic communications, i cannot understand that the administration of the agreement requires the travel and attendance of eu and ukrainian experts and officials at meetings. in conclusion, i would like to support this framework agreement, because i know that science and research have already been involved very actively in the 6th framework programme for research and development and with good real results. the gue/ngl group supports the council's decision.
the next item is the three motions for resolutions on nicaragua and the minutes.
that's the end of the matter. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the four motions for resolutions on laos and vietnam.
that's the end of the matter. the vote will take place at the end of the debate.
the next item is the five motions for resolutions on china: minority rights and the use of the death penalty.
mr posselt, i understand that, but we have agreed that we have a certain amount of time and each group has one minute to speak.
this concludes the debate. the vote will take place immediately. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the vote. (for results and other voting details, see minutes)
yes, some got the word twice, but not in one point. as for the shutdown, i've been benevolent to everyone, i didn't turn anyone's microphone off today, i will next time.
i must point out, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a slight technical error in paragraph 6, that is to say, the words 'criminal' and 'disciplinary' will be deleted from this paragraph.
mr posselt, thank you, that will be corrected.
the vote is closed.
i adjourn the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 16.25 p.m.)
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, we are of course in a period of economic recession or crisis, and that is unpleasant, but such crises come and go, they are a cyclical part of the market economy and must not be abused to introduce excessive regulations that undermine the economy, because such regulations will remain with us even after the crisis itself has passed, and this also applies to international trade. the european union must therefore not succumb to the temptation of protectionism in trade relations, for that would not only harm us but would also harm those whom we want to help, namely the least developed countries in particular, whose full economic integration into the world trading system we must strive for. on behalf of the group of the european conservatives and reformists, let me commend the approach of the group of the european people's party and the alde group, which together with us have prepared a balanced draft resolution on the doha development agenda following the seventh world trade organisation conference. it is this development agenda that must be served by progress in international trade, and if the united states of america has problems with this, it is the european union that should play the leading role in successfully completing the doha round and also in facilitating the full participation of the least developed countries in world trade. european integration started with free trade. the european union, the european community, started as a trading area and the european commission - both current and future - will hopefully see the roots of european integration and return to them. we should continue to mediate the full participation of the least developed countries in world trade, as well as the conclusion of other bilateral and regional free trade agreements to complement the multilateral framework.
for the ecr group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the other cases of the release of funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund. the question is whether the money requested by the governments of sweden, austria and the netherlands in connection with redundancies in firms engaged in the automotive and construction industries should be sent to those states. we've approved several similar contributions in the past. however, in my view, this is a measure which is wrong and the european union should not continue to pursue it. i would like to make two arguments in support of this position. first, the measure is unfair. globalisation, or rather competitive pressure, affects almost all workers and also employers, small traders and entrepreneurs in the european union. every day, as a result, many jobs are being lost or created in europe. however, in the european union, job loss support is provided at european level only for large enterprises where job losses are sufficiently large. the aid is not available to people made redundant from small businesses and is therefore selective and ultimately unfair. secondly, this is an issue that i believe should be addressed at the national level, because there are sufficient resources and information and policies.
ladies and gentlemen, this week we are to comment on the european commission's proposal to release funds from the european globalisation adjustment fund in three cases: sweden, the netherlands and austria. again, unfortunately, we have to decide three unrelated and very different cases. i would remind you that the european parliament has already asked the commission to present and examine individual requests for appropriations separately. again, the requests are accompanied by a number of uncertainties, for example, in the case of the swedish request it is not clear how much of the funds will be used, and in the case of the austrian request the surprising amount of funds requested is in relation to one person who has lost his job. while previous projects have requested a few hundred euros per person, austria is requesting 14 300 euros per unemployed person. we are not convinced that the proposals are in line with the purpose for which the globalisation fund was created and we will not support the release of funds.
ladies and gentlemen, in the current financial and economic crisis, not only banks and large enterprises need to be supported, but also small businesses and the self-employed. we all know that it is small businesses, including family businesses, that create and maintain jobs in large numbers. we support the creation of a new financial instrument for the microfinance for employment and social inclusion programme, which, in cooperation with the european investment bank, will improve access to credit for the self-employed, small start-ups and family businesses. we agree to release a volume of eur 100 million to secure these small loans for a period of time. we consider this programme to be a good and effective instrument for active employment policy and a good way of spending so-called european, but in fact our own, money. we fully support the proposal to release the necessary funds for this financial instrument from the funds originally earmarked for the progress programme. we do not agree that the microfinance facility should be financed from reserves or from other budgetary chapters. the progress programme, which, if i am correct, has a total budget of 700 million euros, is being used to build networks for studies and analyses. no progress resources are intended to directly support jobseekers or job creators. i have no doubt that we need to build networks, carry out analyses and studies. however, at a time when it is not easy for employers and employees, i prefer that the european union budget be used for programmes directed at employers and employees.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the jutta haug report will take place tomorrow. the vote on the surján, manka and böge reports will take place on thursday. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
in writing. first of all, i would like to express my admiration for all those who worked on the budget. preparing the eu budget in the context of the economic crisis and the transition from nice to lisbon was a very difficult task. the 2010 budget is the last budget in this structure. however, the treaty of lisbon is in force and it will be difficult to work within a budget whose structure does not reflect the new conditions. however complicated the ratification of the treaty of lisbon was in the end, this cannot be an excuse for the european commission not to present a proposal for a new budget structure in time. this task should be carried out by the commission without delay. the 2010 budget is very carefully balanced, as it makes full use of all the possibilities for allocating expenditure. as a result, and as a result of the economic fluctuations caused by the turbulent period of the economic crisis, the budget may become very fragile. this budget should be supported with the understanding that it may be too well-drawn for the current volatile times and will require a certain degree of flexibility during 2010.
i have received one motion for a resolution (see minutes) pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. this debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the - question for oral answer to the council on improving the legal framework for access to documents after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, by michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0122/2009 - b7-0230/2009) - question for oral answer to the commission on improving the legal framework for access to documents after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, by michael cashman, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-0123/2009 - b7-0231/2009).
let me take this opportunity to thank you once more for all your cooperation over all those years. merry christmas and all the best to you. i have received five motions for resolution see minutes tabled under rule 115(5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2009. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the situation in georgia.
the european parliament is closely following the situation in georgia and is paying close attention to georgia. at the end of october, jerzy buzek, president of the european parliament, met with president saakashvili, at the beginning of november, meps discussed the tagliavini report on the situation in georgia at a joint meeting of the foreign policy committee, the delegation for cooperation with russia and the delegation for cooperation with the south caucasus, and at their extraordinary meeting in strasbourg on 26 november, the members of the delegation for the south caucasus met with georgian government minister mr giorgim baramidz. we always support the territorial integrity and sovereignty of georgia. we support a peaceful solution to the situation in georgia and the conflict between georgia and russia. we are pushing for the access of peacekeepers not only to the areas under the control of the georgian government, but also to the occupied areas. at the same time, we are pushing for the possibility of humanitarian aid being delivered to these occupied territories. we are concerned about the situation of refugees who have been forced to leave their homes and are unable to return, and we appreciate the efforts of the government of georgia to ensure decent living conditions for all refugees. we strongly urge both sides to respect the ceasefire agreement and to fulfil the commitments they have made towards a peaceful solution.
the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 19.55 and resumed at 21.00.)
i voted against the böge report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because, in particular in the case of the austrian application, this is a highly non-systematic approach reflected in the unprecedented level of per capita aid granted. in order to be considered as individual aid limited in time and aimed at helping workers affected by redundancies due to globalisation, such aid must be based on real individual needs and the real economic context. this is not the case, but rather the aid is determined arbitrarily and at random. therefore, in my view, it is necessary to establish firm criteria. the money used in this way is not a solution to the problem but is actually a waste of taxpayers' money.
in writing. if there is a prominent example anywhere in the world of the eu's inability to take a stand on a problem created by the united states, it is the current unhappy situation in afghanistan. destroyed infrastructure, several generations with minimal access to education, medieval proportions of women's equality and the world benchmark of absolute corruption. this is a situation which, together with the production of over 70% of the world's opium and the increased activity of terrorist groups, shows the absolute incompetence of the occupying power. well-known examples of wrongdoing, including on elected officials, coupled with the illegal practices of the u.s. administration have created an unstable environment. the constant reference to the lack of respect for human dignity during the soviet occupation is a futile attempt to cover up the current chaos and lack of government. more than two million refugees in pakistan and a loose border between the states provide excellent conditions for the infiltration of armed groups into the southern and eastern parts of the country. pashtun tribes have long lived on both sides of the border, and it's difficult to tell who's from where in the current chaos. the 2008 ep resolution correctly describes this situation, but it must be stated that optimistic claims are not justified. at the current state of affairs, the reinforcement of the military presence, the additional funding and the provision of expert teams is completely pointless. the situation has deteriorated significantly in the last year and the optimistic claims of the european commission are not based on the current reality in afghanistan.
for the group gue/ngl. i have read the motions for resolutions on the subject with great attention and have listened with interest to the debate. i believe that the resolutions tabled are dominated by proposals which seek to change the european union's hitherto cold attitude towards belarus in a positive way. i see the eastern partnership project as a good opportunity to significantly improve our relations. i would like to emphasize the following points: firstly, in the economic field, a pragmatic approach prevails, but it cannot be a one-sided process. the union must also open up to belarusian goods and services. secondly, i consider it essential to release the financial resources for belarus under the eastern partnership as soon as possible. a third contribution to the dialogue could be the liberalisation of the european union's visa policy. fourth, we should give greater support to the environmental dimension of our cooperation. we all know that belarus suffered from the chernobyl accident and our help would be more than welcome. while i understand the historical and political specifics of belarus, i believe that the time has come for belarus to join the list of countries that have abolished the death penalty.
for the ecr group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the current cohesion policy is a living organism. as europe changes, so do the attitudes of individual states and entities towards this policy. unfortunately, the debate on future cohesion policy after 2014 raises more questions than it answers. will cohesion policy continue to serve mainly the least developed regions of the union? will we have the opportunity to deliver transport and technical infrastructure in the next period? can we improve the quality of life and realize savings? will we be able to reduce the bureaucracy and red tape associated with the use of european money? these and other questions will be answered in the near future by consensus. i personally think that, from the point of view of future developments, it is crucial firstly to set the role of cities in the management of european funds correctly and secondly to target european funds to promote the use of modern technologies. and it is these two areas that are linked by the smart cities agenda, which offers the opportunity to revitalise urban governments, while at the same time offering the business sector, in times of economic crisis, the opportunity to apply modern systems and smart technologies and generate economic growth. this is undoubtedly a reason to focus strategic investment in this area not only at the level of the cities themselves, but also at the level of the member states and the european union itself. intelligent transport systems that free cities from traffic collapse, navigation support mechanisms that make urban tourism attractive, tele-assistance systems that allow seniors to stay longer in their home environment, these are all types of investments that should be given the green light. as a result of the economic crisis, our debate on the future of cohesion policy has become even more urgent than ever before. today we have to think twice before deciding where european funds should go.
